

401 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1710 words

HEADLINE: Shore Towns Dread Release of Mentally Ill

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OCEAN GROVE, N.J., July 10

 BODY:
Amid complaints that their towns have become warehouses for the mentally ill, residents of several communities along the Jersey Shore are worried about the possible arrival of hundreds of men and women previously considered unprepared for life outside of institutions.
The plan is causing much anxiety in places like Ocean Grove, which has seen many of its aging bed-and-breakfast hotels and boarding houses converted into homes for thousands of mentally ill people who were removed from state hospitals during the last two decades. Such residents now make up 10 percent of the city's population.
 
'Mainstreaming' and the Reality
 "The state talks about 'mainstreaming' the mentally ill but the reality is these poor people are being put away and forgotten in 19th-century boarding houses used as the poorhouses of the 21st century," said Jennifer Boyd, a documentary film maker who is president of the Ocean Grove Homeowners Association. She is one of many who hope that the state will successfully relocate 450 patients scheduled for discharge next year and not dump them in Monmouth and Ocean County beachfront towns. 
 Boarding houses along the northern Jersey Shore became convenient places to house the mentally ill removed from institutions beginning in the 1970's. The structures, used only in summer, had lost economic viability as vacation patterns changed. And the buildings were already zoned for high-density use, so protracted fights to place state-licensed beds in more dispersed settings could be avoided. Besides that, the communities did not have the political muscle or economic vitality to fight back.
The year-round residents of these beach towns say the state says it has no control over where a mental patient chooses to settle after discharge. But they argue that in the past, that was all but decided by a little-known state agency that has been dispensing millions of dollars in grants since 1981 to operators who can turn tidy profits by converting old boarding houses into state-licensed homes for the disabled or aged.
After a series of fires in the late 1970's killed residents of boarding houses in Asbury Park and Bradley Beach, the state began to underwrite operators who needed money to qualify for licensing. Gary Anastasia, director of the Housing and Mortgage Finance Agency set up to handle the financing, said the state has made 147 loan commitments valued at $24.5 million, the "great majority" to boarding house operators in Monmouth, Ocean and Essex Counties.
The program, Ms. Boyd of the Ocean Grove Homeowners Association said, has hurt prospering communities like hers, a historic mile-square beachfront resort that has 5,000 year-round residents. Since the mid-1980's, 470 former mental patients have moved into town. Asbury Park, a financially troubled city of 18,000 directly north, has 700 licensed beds and is probably home to many more people who occupy unlicensed beds, local officials say.
Ocean Grove, listed on the National Register of Historic Places, still has the look of a Victorian seaside resort and continues to draw tourists and beachgoers, just as it first attracted Methodists for summer camp meetings in the 1860's. Turreted roofs, cornices and railed porches on two or three levels stand shoulder to shoulder for blocks inland from the ocean, a virtual wood museum.
 
Fears for Local Economy
 The local homeowners association, which was organized in the 1970's to fight for historic preservation, charges that the state is undermining the community's growing tourist economy and its irreplaceable architectural heritage by subsidizing operators who convert buildings into threadbare shelters for the mentally ill, discouraging individuals who are interested in restorations for personal use or investment.
Two such residents are Polly and Alan Hewson, former New Yorkers who say they fell in love with Ocean Grove at first sight in 1989 and bought a gingerbread-trimmed cottage for $140,000 a block from the beach.
"What we didn't realize because of the summer crowds was that there were two boarding houses on our street whose only clients were mental patients," said Mr. Hewson, a 39-year-old computer arts designer.
"People wouldn't mind one or two such places in Ocean Grove, but the people who own the buildings have discovered a real opportunity in Federal funds to fill their rooms year-round," said Mrs. Hewson, an actress. "They're turning this community into a mental ward."
Now that the state will purge an additional 450 patients and shut down one of the state's four adult psychiatric hospitals by 1997, people in shore towns like Ocean Grove dread that they will have to shoulder the brunt of the policy. Alan G. Kaufman, director of the state division of Mental Health and Hospitals, said the alarm is misplaced.
While conceding that shore communities were hit hard in the past when patients were released from state mental hospitals, he said the new round of releases was designed to avoid past mistakes by more carefully distributing the patients to their hometowns around the state and more closely managing their lives once they leave the hospitals.
"This time we are going to do it right," Mr. Kaufman said. "Each one of the 450 patients who will be discharged by the end of 1993 will have a case manager and a built-in plan for community-based care and a residential program."
Critics of the new plan scoff at claims that New Jersey, during a time of deep budget cuts, will come up with the money to sustain long-term suitable treatment and housing for discharged patients in the communities where they eventually settle.
"What the state has done is warehouse the mentally ill in boarding houses and place the burden on the local community to service them," said Jerena B. Rezvan, director of the special services bureau of Asbury Park. "Saving money is the bottom line in this and anyone who says it isn't is full of beans."
Emptying asylums sounds good, she said, but New Jersey's investment in community-based mental health services to assist discharged patients was the lowest among the Northeastern states for years. In 1990, the average per-capita expenditure in the Northeast for such care was $19.27 a year. In New Jersey it was $9.66.
It costs the state $70,000 to $80,000 a year to care for a patient at one of the four adult psychiatric hospitals now equipped to treat 2,400 patients, all of whom are involuntarily committed after exhibiting some danger to themselves or others.
When a patient is discharged, the financial burden passes to the Federal government, which pays most of the $5,500 to $6,874 annually in Supplemental Security Income or other disability payments that a chronically ill person living alone in New Jersey is eligible to receive.
 
Reducing the Population
 In 1975, when the population of New Jersey was 7.3 million, 9,100 mentally ill people lived in state and county institutions. The four state adult psychiatric hospitals now have a daily population of 3,400. The goal is to bring that number to 1,800 by 1997. The population would be housed in three hospitals, each with 600 beds. Since 65 percent of the patients are discharged within two months, it is expected that the caseload would be manageable, supplemented by new local centers to handle acute short-term cases.
To eliminate one of the present four state psychiatric hospitals, the state will close Marlboro in Monmouth County or Greystone Park in Morris County within five years. There is speculation that the state has already earmarked Marlboro for closing because Greystone is the only state adult psychiatric hospital in northern New Jersey, where most of the state population resides. The two other hospitals are in Trenton and south of Camden.
Few of those scheduled for release can count on families to care for them, because relationships have been severed by time or the ravages of illness, hospital social workers say. Nearly all are poor.
At the old Carlton Hotel, now the Carlton Residential Health Care Center, a weather-stained seven-story structure on the boulevard facing the beach in Asbury Park, the warehousing is palpable.
"We try not to take young people because they tend to make trouble," said Dorothy Lutz, the owner, as she surveyed a second-floor lounge filled with men and women, most older than 50, seated on misshapen pieces of furniture arranged in rows before a steadily droning television set. Food smells clotted the air.
Here was Louie, "who has no mind of his own," Mrs. Lutz said, introducing a man who grinned wildly at her description. And blank-eyed Carmine, whose brain was lacerated in an auto accident, and Rich, who has a nasty habit of digging through the garbage. By the window was Jacob, a problem case because he was always out on the street cadging money for drinks and smokes.
"Jacob needs to be in a place where they lock the doors and he can't get out," Mrs. Lutz said wearily. "But there is no place like that any more."
 
Plenty of Red Cards
 In the old lobby, behind a time-worn desk, was a battered metal cabinet taller than a man. Inside were shelves of plastic trays containing medication for each of the 163 residents. The trays of residents who have been forced to return to Marlboro for stabilization are marked by red cards. There are plenty of red cards.
The state plans to spend $13 million in reimbursed Medicaid payments from the Federal Government to create community-based services operated by local nonprofit agencies to handle the release of the 450 patients next year.
But it comes too late for the residents of the Carlton and the thousands of others in similar accommodations around the state.
In future years, the costs of maintaining the community services are expected to come from savings brought about by decline in the permanent hospital population and the consolidation of staffs and programs.
Yet late last month, in the search for ways to balance the state budget, the Legislature cut $5 million from the mental health appropriation, citing the savings expected from the discharge of the 550, a move that stunned mental health advocates already guarded about promises that fully financed community-based care will become a reality.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "They're turning this community into a mental ward," said Polly Hewson of owners who convert buildings into year-round shelters for the mentally ill. She and husband, Alan, seen with children, Andromeda and Skye, moved to Ocean Grove in 1989; The push to deinstitutionalize the mentally ill has led to the placement of many in such homes as the Carlton Residential Health Care center in Asbury Park. (Photographs by F.N. Kinney for The New York Times) (pg. 31);
 
Map of New Jersey, indicating Ocean Grove. (pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: OCEAN GROVE HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION (93%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; OCEAN GROVE (NJ) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; BOARDING HOUSES MENTAL ILLNESS (92%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (90%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); HOSPITALS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CITIES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON ALAN HEWSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1992



402 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: The Vision Thing

 BODY:
The Democratic and Republican Nominating Conventions have long since lost their suspense and their middle name, now that primary voters do the nominating. And by picking Senator Al Gore as his running mate, Gov. Bill Clinton has lifted the last veil from this week's Democratic Convention. But that doesn't mean the proceedings will degenerate into a dull drone of praise for "the next Pres-a-dent of the Yew-nited States."
This year's conventions -- all three of them -- present an unusually important opportunity for all three candidates to explain themselves. The truth is that this year, the public doesn't much know what any of them stand for. 
 Even after 40 months as President, George Bush has conveyed no clear direction. Indeed, he derides even the idea as "the vision thing." Ross Perot keeps promising that pretty soon now, he'll tell what his campaign promises are. For now, his remains a Zerot platform.
Meanwhile, this week the Democrats will crown Bill Clinton, a newcomer to Presidential politics, and their convention gives them a spotlighted podium from which to tell where they, and he, stand. Governor Clinton has laid out a clear vision of where he would lead but hasn't said nearly enough about how he proposes to pay for the trip.
Let's tell the truth. Mr. Reagan will raise taxes, and so will I. He won't tell you. I just did.
Ever since Walter Mondale spoke those sentences in accepting the 1984 Democratic nomination, they have endured as a subtext of politics. His candor may have been suicidal; he was running against a master of geniality who promised gain and no pain. But Americans have since watched an ominous row of $200 billion annual deficits balloon into $400 billion deficits. Leaders do not necessarily have to levy new taxes; they do need to level with the public about the future.
Compared with his rivals, Governor Clinton is off to a good start with his revised strategy, "Putting People First," for competing in the emerging global economy. This program concentrates on creating "the best-educated, best-trained work force in the world," supported by heavy investment in the latest transportation and communication. Excellent, but how will this be paid for? In four years, he proposes saving $300 billion.
There are nice words about cutting entitlements, but little in the way of numbers to support them. Health care reform is supposed to save billions but it's far from clear his reform would work, let alone save. Would there be new taxes on middle America? No, sir, only on the very wealthy. And new billions would flow in because of the growth his program would promote. In other words, if it works, it works.
It may be that Walter Mondale's candor in 1984 would still be suicidal, that no candidate dare call for new taxes or declare what sacred spending should be reduced -- farm subsidies, for instance, or Social Security for the affluent. But it can also be argued that in their present distemper with politics, Americans now want the truth, of purpose and of purse.
When it comes to purpose, Bill Clinton has already lapped the field. Does anyone know what President Bush and Ross Perot stand for? This week, more than another laundry list or wish list, Americans will be looking for his vision, clearly expressed and honestly paid for.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TAX INCREASES (70%); LABOR FORCE (65%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); AL GORE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1992



403 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Smoother Sailing at City Hall

 BODY:
Politicians are always claiming comebacks, new images, new beginnings. New York's Mayor, David Dinkins, isn't claiming any of those; he's living them. After a shaky start that hurt him and his city, Mr. Dinkins has learned much from his mistakes.
Recent polls show greater respect for his performance, and opponents lining up to challenge him have pulled a few punches. The Mayor still yields too often in labor negotiations and betrays signs of his earlier bent for indecision; his mayoral opponents next year will not lack ammunition. 
 But the politician who lurched from one contradictory policy to another has become more purposeful. He can confidently welcome the Democratic Convention that he lured to town, notwithstanding the recent turmoil in Washington Heights.
Indeed, Mr. Dinkins can take credit for his sensitive handling of the street disturbances after a police officer killed a young Dominican. It mirrored his tenacity in guarding against unrest after the acquittals in the Rodney King trial.
The Mayor, who ran in 1989 pledging his commitment to New York City's "gorgeous mosaic," took much too long to denounce a black boycott of a Korean grocery two years ago. But now he provides a constant, calming presence, denouncing violence yet sympathizing with legitimate grievances.
There has turned out to be a tougher test, however: managing the city's finances in a time of scarcity. Mr. Dinkins at first flatly failed that test. During one bizarre week two years ago, he agreed to a labor settlement the city could not afford, announced an expensive police plan and also threatened mass layoffs. But this year his administration produced an intelligent budget, managed a surprise surplus and negotiated City Council approval of the budget ahead of time.
The Mayor recently responded quickly to allegations of police corruption by naming an investigative panel, and played clever hardball politics with state legislators who tried, and failed, to get control of the city's police-expansion program.
Mr. Dinkins remains susceptible to evasion. He deferred a pivotal decision to implement a new homeless policy, delayed plans for an unpopular but essential incinerator plant in Brooklyn, failed to make significant structural reforms in the city bureaucracy and is again enlarging the work force he had reduced.
But after giving unrealistically generous raises to his allies, the municipal labor unions, he now at least insists they will not get further raises unless they pay for them in cost savings.
New York City remains in deep economic trouble. That makes it all the more welcome that Mr. Dinkins has found his footing as Mayor and all the more important that he keep it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; MAYORS POLITICS (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (75%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); CORRUPTION (68%); ACQUITTAL (67%); APPROVALS (63%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1992



404 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Public & Private;
The Standard Bearers

BYLINE: By ANNA QUINDLEN

 BODY:
I once wrote a column called "Life in the 30's." The title, a reference to my age, was a problem. Some readers thought it referred to the Depression and some thought it referred to the Murray Hill section of Manhattan. But the worst part was that it was exclusionary: readers who were over 40 felt disinvited from the audience, which is the last thing any writer wants. 
 It is the last thing any candidate wants, but disinvitation was what concerned me as I watched Bill Clinton, 45, escort Al Gore, 44, onto the veranda of the Governor's mansion in Little Rock to introduce him as his running mate. "A new generation in American politics," the commentators kept saying of these two big handsome guys, who looked like the co-captains of a college football team.
Between them they represented much of what our generation has wrestled with, from Mr. Clinton's agonizing over Vietnam and his ups-and-downs marriage to a smart woman to Mr. Gore's tour in Vietnam and his expertise on global warming and the ozone layer. Two guys who smoked dope, one who inhaled, one who didn't. Like a cannon volley came the imagined sound: baby boom Boom BOOM.
What a long strange trip it's been; anyone who predicts with confidence what November will bring is stupid or arrogant. The politics of psychic exclusion has been the rule, from out-of-work Republicans who feel the President has not paid attention to the economy, to conservative Democrats who think their party remains too liberal, to women who like abortion rights and fidelity in a man. The ruling principle has been disenfranchisement, whether expressed in anger, Jerry Brown or Ross Perot.
Both Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore are members of a group founded to move the Democratic Party toward more centrist positions. And it shows. Mr. Clinton went home earlier this year for the execution of a convicted murderer whose plea for clemency he denied. Mr. Gore broke with his Democratic colleagues to authorize the President to wage war in the Persian Gulf. But the Clinton camp probably has lost little sleep over the loss of hard-core liberals. We are as likely to shift to the Bush-Quayle ticket as we are to hobnob with alien life forms.
It is the moderates they will seek, a word that is frequently used to describe Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore. The only ones who cast them as flaming liberals are the Republicans, who are positioned so unrelentingly to the right that when Laurance Rockefeller, of the Rockefeller Republican Rockefellers, entered the primary for Al D'Amato's Senate seat in New York last week, it was immediately said that he must really be a Democrat.
These two hunky postwar babies should remember that around half the voters out there are older than they are. And they are shopping. A poll released last week by the Times Mirror Center for the People and the Press showed that Americans over the age of 50 overwhelmingly see a need for new leaders in Washington.
But if those new leaders appear to be representative only of a baby boom generation that has been televised, analyzed and chronicled to the point of parody, older Americans may feel disinvited from the party. Crossed Volvos with a briefcase rampant on a field of ambition is not the coat of arms for a winning race, not with the shadow of the go-go 80's a blight upon the land.
The political landscape has changed since John F. Kennedy's age was a major issue. He became the youngest President at age 43; today we have a ticket on which both spots are filled by men nearly the same age. Experience is not an issue; both are seasoned and respected elected officials. Fitness is not an issue either. Every candidate on Mr. Clinton's short list was more qualified to be both Vice President and, if need be, President than the current occupant of the office.
The danger in being standard bearers for a new generation is that you must be most careful not to shut older generations out, as Hillary Clinton learned to her sorrow when she seemed to be denigrating cookie baking and elevating career. The folks who brought us F.D.R. and J.F.K. may indeed feel there is a need for new blood. And if Bill Clinton and Al Gore are seen as two men with the energy and ideas to make a tired old system new, they could win over both their own generation and that of their parents. If they are seen as the first hungry yuppie ticket, looking for career advancement at the polls, they are in big trouble.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); VIET NAM (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); ARKANSAS, USA (77%); INDIAN OCEAN (52%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); VIET NAM (70%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ARKANSAS, USA (77%); INDIAN OCEAN (52%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (73%); WRITERS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%); ABORTION (63%); 

PERSON: QUINDLEN, ANNA; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN) AL GORE (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JERRY BROWN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1992



405 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
How to Get the Job Done

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
The Presidential campaign begins this week with the Democratic Convention. And Americans might actually turn out to be interested and tune in. The danger is that when they spot the young, handsome and articulate Clinton-Gore team, they will see two new politicians selling the same old snake oil.
An understandably dispirited and cynical public does not want to hear Bill Clinton and Al Gore rehearse the usual list of noble promises. Rather, people want to know whether the two baby boomers have the ideas and guts to achieve those promises. 
 So far, Bill Clinton and his Democratic Party platform promise one thing: a farsighted and much-needed revolution in foreign and domestic affairs -- without a followable road map or a realistic price tag.
People are waiting to learn not only where the Clinton-Gore duo promises to lead, but how the journey can be made.
Americans may not apply such an exacting standard to Ross Perot. Many still do not perceive him as a politician, and therefore assume his motives to be both pure and a sufficient substitute for substance.
Nor are Americans likely to require much means-testing of George Bush. His supporters either think no action is the best answer or see him as a comfortable old shoe not to be lightly discarded.
The Democrats' dynamic duo cannot count on such indulgence. They will have to start proving themselves this week. Their platform is not a bad place to begin.
As convention documents go, the 1992 platform is not unduly vague. It has a compelling theme, and it reflects a political maturity (read desire to win) absent from platforms since the early 1960's.
The preamble begins inspirationally: "Two hundred summers ago, this Democratic Party was founded by the man whose burning pen fired the spirit of the American Revolution -- who once argued we should overthrow our own government every 20 years to renew our freedom and keep pace with a changing world. In 1992, the Party Thomas Jefferson founded invokes his spirit of revolution anew."
It goes on to call for "a revolution in government," for "an activist government" that solves problems in new ways and for "facing up to tough choices." But then, the choices turn out to be a little too easy.
On deficit reduction, the document promises to do sensible things like "reform entitlement programs to control soaring health care costs" and increase taxes on the rich. But then it says spending will be cut without pain for senior citizens or the poor. And it never makes clear that most of the anticipated reductions would come from hoped-for growth in the economy. The plan is better than the Bush/Perot tripe, but still not convincing.
The platform also pledges "defense savings," then follows with a long list of programs to help business and workers convert to civilian enterprises. Just right. But no mention is made of the fact that the longer and more costly the conversion process, the less the country can expect to reap from the Pentagon budget.
The document also commits the party to a terrific set of environmental goals, domestic ones like more mass transit and international ones like targets for carbon dioxide reductions. And it rightly asserts that environmentalism is consistent with economic development, but does not show how.
Platform junkies might take special note of the international section. It points to a new and needed emphasis on economics. But it also talks of using "military force decisively . . . to defend our vital interests," and of keeping troops in NATO and South Korea. These are clear overtures to the old conservative "Scoop" Jackson wing of the party to return to the fold.
The platform represents solid mainstream thinking -- largely freed from the special, self-destructive pleadings of the last 20 years. It thus sets the stage for powerful and realistic acceptance speeches by the candidates.
Americans want Mr. Gore to talk practically about converting defense industries and fixing the environment, areas in which he is almost uniquely expert. Above all, they need Mr. Clinton to tell them forthrightly and honestly of the pain, sacrifice and time necessary to revitalize the economy -- to go beyond suspiciously familiar promises and explain how he will get the job done.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); TAX INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H; PEROT, ROSS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1992



406 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Three Cheers for Microsoft's Millionaires . . . As Opposed to the I.B.M. Experience

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Microsoft's Unlikely Millionaires" stands in unhappy contrast to the I.B.M. experience. An employee at the International Business Machines Corporation who owned $10,000 worth of stock of 1974 vintage would have seen it grow to about $19,000 at the recent market price of $98 a share. True, he or she would have received approximately $12,500 in dividends in the meantime. But analysis shows that 1974 would have been the "best year" in the last 18 to have made such an investment. 
 After due allowance for taxes and inflation, a tax-free bond might have been a better investment.
 
HUGH TREANOR
Palo Alto, Calif., June 30

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (94%); IBM (NYSE) (94%); IBM (LSE) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); INVESTMENT STRATEGIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); BONDS (82%); 

PERSON: TREANOR, HUGH

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1992



407 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1968 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Road to the Nomination;
While Others Shrank From the Race, Clinton Clung to Dream of Presidency

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
It was April 1991, and the nation felt very good about itself and its President in the aftermath of the Persian Gulf war, and a sort of sullen silence had fallen on the Democratic Party.
Paul E. Tsongas was running for President, but nobody gave him much of a chance, and George McGovern was thinking about it. None of the supposed heavyweights was making a move. But down in Little Rock, on a spring afternoon, Gov. Bill Clinton seemed immune to the Beltway blues. 
 "The focus on whether the President can be defeated in '92 is the wrong focus," he lectured a visiting reporter. "The truth is no one knows the answer to that."
What was clear, he argued, was that the public's attention would inevitably turn to domestic issues. That the Democrats needed to reinterpret their domestic agenda to appeal to the middle class. That both parties needed to move beyond their "hidebound ideology."
So was he running? he was asked. He had never been happier here in Arkansas, he replied. Moments later, fearful that his demurral had been too strong, perhaps even believable, he returned to the point. "It's just a question of whether it should be done NOW," he said.
It has become a heroic cliche of American politics: The candidate off in the provinces, plotting and planning and dreaming his way to the nomination, believing while others despair, thinking while others rest, the one whose triumph seems inevitable in retrospect. But in the case of Bill Clinton, who will accept his party's nomination Thursday night, there is some truth to the cliche.
 
Big Plans From the Start
 He wanted the Presidency more than the Democrats who flinched in the face of all those yellow ribbons and towering Bush approval ratings. And he planned for it more than any of those who entered the race.
They seem like simple virtues, but are actually quite rare in Presidential politics: He knew what he wanted to say. He had a strategic vision of where he wanted to take his party. And perhaps because of all those afternoons in Little Rock, spinning out his campaign, rolling through the scenarios, thinking it through again and again and again, he had this ferocious resistance to letting it die.
That was clear in the most decisive week of the Democratic primary campaign, the final week before the New Hampshire primary, when Mr. Clinton's candidacy was slipping away and Democrats were pleading with other leaders to enter the race. The Governor from Arkansas campaigned with an intensity that was almost painful to watch.
He stayed on his feet through accusations of infidelity and draft dodging, through extraordinary rebukes from the public in opinion polls and the voting booths, through a full-blown journalistic feeding frenzy that had destroyed other men.
The Rev. Jesse Jackson, who is not a fan, explains Mr. Clinton's success dismissively: "He survived." There was, in fact, an element of default about his victory. Most of his rivals were newcomers to Presidential politics who started late, stumbled often and sometimes seemed incapable of capitalizing on opportunities that came their way.
Mr. Clinton's strongest opposition, in many ways, was self-created. He struggled to package his personal life: the past difficulties in his marriage, what he did during the Vietnam War and even, inexplicably, his youthful experiment with marijuana. ("I didn't inhale.") His critics said he tried too hard.
Still, one reason the rest of the field looked so weak was because Mr. Clinton out-planned, out-organized and out-campaigned them.
 
A Long-Rising Star, A Moment to Shine
 He had worked the networks of national politics for more than 20 years. Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia once described him as the only Democrat to be a rising star in three decades.
Mr. Clinton traveled the nation in 1990 and 1991 as chairman of the Democratic Leadership Council. That group, formed in 1985 with the purpose of pushing the party toward the center, became a crucial vehicle for Mr. Clinton to hone his message and test it before a variety of audiences.
By the spring of 1991, when the leadership council met in Cleveland for what turned into the first cattle show of the 1992 campaign, Mr. Clinton was ready with a full-blown Presidential campaign speech. He outlined the domestic problems facing the country, from economic decline to chronic poverty to the crisis in health care. But he argued that the Democratic Party would never get a chance to address those problems unless it regained the confidence of the middle class.
Many in the party were steeling themselves for a left-right debate; some of them wanted it, yearning to see Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York take on the Southern wing of the party and its latest tribune, Mr. Clinton. But Mr. Clinton deftly argued that Democrats needed to focus on "a new choice" or a "third way" in public policy that was beyond the old ideology.
The "new choice" meant that welfare recipients would be put to work (but given child care and training along the way), and that children of the middle class would get more college aid programs (but also pay the loans back or work them off in national service).
His critics saw the "new choice" as the first of many straddles; his allies saw it as a strategic masterstroke.
He was already beginning to discuss a race for the Presidency with a small group of advisers. As they met periodically through the summer, it became clear that most of the prospective candidates on the A-list were backing out, raising unusual opportunities for Mr. Clinton.
Moreover, Stan Greenberg, Mr. Clinton's poll taker, was arguing by mid-summer that Mr. Bush was in far more trouble than his approval ratings might suggest.
There were doubts and second thoughts along the way; Mr. Clinton worried about breaking his pledge to serve out his term, but went ahead and did it anyway. By summer's end he was in the race, and his campaign began to move quickly. They set out to win what one adviser called "an early primary of elites," persuading press, pundits and political professionals that Mr. Clinton was the class of the field. The candidate delivered a series of policy speeches at Georgetown University. (A $3 cab ride for much of the national press corps.)
He dominated the cattle shows, particularly a meeting of state Democratic chairmen in Chicago in November. He put together a campaign staff with some reach, including expertise on Chicago, since Illinois was the first primary after the Southern Super Tuesday.
They were winning the primary of elites: The cover of New Republic ("The Anointed"), the covers of Time and New York magazines. There was a generation of political writers who believed that the Democratic Party had to recreate itself, break with the old liberal orthodoxy, to return to power. Mr. Clinton fit their view, as Senator Al Gore had for a time in 1988.
The Clinton campaign kept thinking it through. The advisers knew they had a problem with the rumors of infidelity about Mr. Clinton. They tried to defuse them.
In September, Mr. Clinton went before a breakfast of journalists with his wife, Hillary, at his side. He said their relationship "has not been perfect or free of its difficulties" but asserted, "We intend to be together 30 or 40 years from now, whether I run for President or not or whatever happens in the interim."
He added, "I think that ought to be enough."
For the moment, it was.
 
Facing Adversity, Showing Endurance
 By January, the Clinton campaign was rolling in New Hampshire. Governor Cuomo had finally announced that he would not run, Senator Bob Kerrey of Nebraska was suffering from that dread political ailment "failure to connect," and Mr. Clinton's earnest talk of economic development was striking a chord with the anxious voters of New Hampshire.
Then came Gennifer Flowers, asserting in the tabloid The Star that she had had a 12-year affair with Mr. Clinton. Then came an article in The Wall Street Journal, suggesting that Mr. Clinton had tried to manipulate his draft status to avoid the draft in the Vietnam War. Mr. Clinton, having denied both assertions, went home to Little Rock for the weekend.
Mr. Greenberg, the Clinton poll taker, conducted a survey that Sunday, 10 days before the primary. It showed a drop of 17 points, he later recalled. He called the situation a "meltdown."
There are few things as harrowing to candidates as a free fall in the polls. Mr. Clinton's ability to push through that final week in New Hampshire had as much to do with his winning the nomination as all the planning of the year before.
It was a manic final sprint, from shopping malls to town meetings to street corners, from live television to impromptu news conferences.
His candidacy was widely considered to be mortally wounded. In Washington, Democrats pleaded with Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas and other heavyweights to enter the race. The party was in turmoil -- afraid that Mr. Clinton would fail, and afraid that he would survive, but just barely.
"It was wild," said one veteran Democratic strategist, who added that most of the Democrats promoting late-entry candidates wanted to see "a dead body" first.
Had the Clinton campaign finished third in New Hampshire, or dropped below 20 percent, it was "toast," as a Clinton strategist, James Carville, put it. "You could have gone ahead and buttered us," he said.
The night of the New Hampshire primary, when he finished second with 25 percent of the vote, a euphoric Mr. Clinton dubbed himself the "comeback kid." He sounded more like the big winner of the night than the man who finished first, Mr. Tsongas, with 33 percent of the vote. Mr. Clinton actually was a winner; he got out of New Hampshire alive. The talk of late entries faded.
 
In Face of Victory, A Feeling of Losing
 What was astonishing was how quickly his opponents fell after New Hampshire. None of them had much money, or much organization beyond New Hampshire. Mr. Clinton remained vulnerable, but his rivals seemed unable to exploit it.
Mr. Tsongas got a boost out of New Hampshire, but in the succeeding weeks his message of economic sacrifice, like an increase in the gas tax, proved to have little appeal for core Democratic constituencies, especially organized labor and minorities. Mr. Clinton demonstrated the virtues of his ideological flexibility, attacking Mr. Tsongas from the left as a man who would perpetuate the theory of "trickle-down economics."
By the end of March, only former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California remained, and while he tormented Mr. Clinton, winning in Connecticut and fighting hard in New York, he soon faded as well. Mr. Clinton's most dangerous opposition proved to be his own image, the doubts that all the controversy had stirred,
"We keep winning but we're losing," he told his media consultant, Frank Greer, after the New York primary. He had locked up the nomination but was rewarded with a Time Magazine cover that made him look like a serial killer, under the headline, "Why Voters Don't Trust Clinton." Forty-two percent of the Democrats in New York said he did not have the honesty and integrity to serve effectively as President.
The exit polls became another opponent, underscoring the voters' doubts about Mr. Clinton; he turned that around in Pennsylvania's primary on April 28, when the superheated atmosphere of New York had finally cooled and he got his negatives down, although they remain high in some national polls. Then, in California, "we turn around and there's this new train coming down the track, with Perot written across the spotlight," Mr. Greer said.
Mr. Clinton could not have envisioned Ross Perot in all his planning. For a time, he seemed rattled and angry. Then, as he did in New Hampshire, he waded back into the fray.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Clinton listening to a question about marital infidelity during a stop in Portsmouth, N.H., in January. (Associated Press)
 
Table: "Recap of the Primaries: How Democrats in 29 States Voted"

	Portion of primary voters	Clinton	Brown	Tsongas	100%	Total, all 29 states	50%	21%	20%	47	Men	50	22	20	53	Women	51	20	21	78	Whites	47	22	25	14	Blacks	71	15	8	4	Hispanics	51	29	15	12	18-29 years	47	24	19	33	30-44 years	45	26	22	25	45-59 years	51	19	20	30	60 and older	59	15	18	50	Protestant	55	14	21	30	Catholic	44	24	24	6	Jewish	45	15	33	8	Without a high school diploma	67	14	10	27	High school graduates	61	17	15	27	Some college	48	23	18	20	College graduates	42	24	26	18	Some post graduate education	38	23	28		Family income:	 	 	 	15	Less than $15,000	62	17	13	25	$15,000 to $29,999	55	19	18	30	$30,000 to $49,999	48	23	21	18	$50,000 to $74,999	45	23	25	11	$75,000 and over	38	23	29		Those who identify themselves as:	 	 	 	67	Democrats	57	19	17	29	Independents	36	25	27	4	Republicans	34	18	32	35	Liberals	47	26	20	45	Moderates	54	18	19	20	Conservatives	48	17	23		Those whose family's financial situation is:	 	 	 	14	Better today than four years ago	44	24	22	39	Same today as four years ago	50	20	20	45	Worse today than four years ago	53	20Y18	 	18.0 million	Total Votes	9.0	3.7	3.5	 This table, which constructs a Democratic primary electorate for the nation, combines vote totals and results from exit polls conducted in 29 Democratic primary states from February to June. Vote totals are from secretaries of state. Exit polls were conducted by Voter Research and Surveys. Each state influences the total table according to its share of all votes cast. Other candidates, who received 1.7 million votes combined or 9 percent of the total, are not shown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PERSIAN GULF WAR DESERT STORM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); TONER, ROBIN BILL CLINTON (94%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



408 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1814 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN;
Chicago

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON; ISABEL WILKERSON is chief of the Chicago bureau of The New York Times.

 BODY:
When the country goes in search of itself it often lands in the Middle West where beige flatness seems closer to essential truth and where Chicago, the region's capital, is the primordial big city, all granite and brawn and broad, noisy boulevards.
Without the veneer of Hollywood or Broadway, it is perhaps the most frankly American of big American cities, surrounded by suburbs and cornfields, proud of its skyscrapers and bratwursts. 
 At heart, Chicago is a journeyman's town with no time for pretension. But if it is an efficient workhorse, it is also a beautiful one. Frank Lloyd Wright, Ludwig Mies van der Rohe and many others have made it a living museum of architecture. And parks named after two presidents from Illinois -- Lincoln and Grant -- carpet the city's edge at the foot of steel and concrete mountains, with Lake Michigan glowing blue on the horizon.
The city has recovered from a freak underground flood that immobilized the downtown area called the Loop in April and is now settling in for the brilliant summer, when the city becomes the country's biggest beach town.
 
What to Do
 At the first hint of summer sun, swimsuit-clad Chicagoans can be seen wrapped in towels and carrying beach chairs past the office buildings and boutiques of Michigan Avenue, past Chanel and Armani and Henri Bendel. They are on their way to the Oak Street Beach, one of the most popular of Chicago's 29 beaches. Other major beaches include those at North Avenue, Fullerton Avenue and Montrose Avenue.
The city's parks offer a wealth of free activities this time of year. The Grant Park Music Festival, (312) 819-0614, presents symphonic concerts Wednesday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday to Aug. 23. There, the Grant Park Symphony Orchestra, led by conductors like Sarah Caldwell and Michael Morgan presents anything from Bernstein to Debussy at the park's Petrillo Music Shell at Columbus Drive and Jackson Boulevard.
The 14th annual Jazz Festival, (312) 744-3315, runs Sept. 4 to 6, also at the Petrillo Music Shell. Hours are 6 P.M. to 10:30 P.M., Friday; 3 P.M. to 10 P.M. Saturday and Sunday. Performers include Mel Torme, Diane Schuurr and Spiro Gyra.
The Lincoln Park Zoo, 2200 North Cannon Drive, (312) 294-4660, is one of the few big city zoos still free to the public. There, at a working farm, visitors can see cows milked, butter churned and chicks hatched. Polar bears, lions, cheetahs, and elephants, among others, are also on view. Open daily 9 A.M. to 5 P.M.
Briar Street Theater, 3133 North Halsted Street, (312) 348-4000, is presenting, to Sept. 13, John Guare's "Six Degrees of Separation" with Veronica Hamel. Tickets are $29.50 to $35.50.
The Apollo Theater, 2540 North Lincoln Avenue, (312) 935-6100, presents "Lend Me a Tenor" by Ken Ludwig, with John Astin, to Aug. 23. Tickets are $27.50 to $33.50.
 
Art Inside and Out
 It is a matter of self-esteem that Chicago has the tallest building in the world (Sears Tower, at 1,468 feet), the busiest airport (O'Hare) and Michael Jordan. Stature is everything. And architecture is perhaps where Chicago gets to show off most.
Frank Lloyd Wright got his start and spent the first 20 years of his career in suburban Oak Park, nine miles east of the Loop, where his home and studio stand fully restored. Visitors can see the barrel-vaulted playroom he built for his six children and the octagonal drafting room where he launched the Prairie School of architecture. Oak Park and adjacent River Forest, with 31 Wright structures between them, are the richest repositories of Wright's work. Guided tours of his home and studio, 951 Chicago Avenue, Oak Park, Ill., (708) 848-1500, run weekdays at 11 A.M. and 1 and 3 P.M., and weekends continuously from 11 A.M. to 4 P.M. The cost is $6. There is an annual tour on the third Saturday in May that includes interiors of 10 houses. Tickets go on sale March 1 through the above address, and usually sell out by mid-April.
Architectural walking tours of the Loop explore early skyscrapers like the Chicago Board of Trade and the Rookery, or modern buildings like Sears Tower, the spaceship-shaped State of Illinois Center and monumental outdoor sculpture by Calder, Picasso and Miro. The tours, sponsored by the Chicago Architecture Foundation, 224 South Michigan Avenue, (312) 922-3432, cover a mile and half and last two hours. Tours, $7, are given April through September onweekdays at 10 A.M. and 1:30 P.M.; Saturday at 10 and 11 A.M. and 1:30 and 2:30 P.M., and Sunday at 1:30 P.M. The rest of the year, tours are only at 1:30 P.M. The foundation also gives boat tours along the Chicago River, charting landmarks like the Wrigley Building, Marina City and the Merchandise Mart. Tours depart daily at 10 A.M., noon, 2 P.M. and 4 P.M. Tickets are $15.
The Art Institute of Chicago, Michigan Avenue at Adams Street, (312) 443-3600, with its treasure of Impressionist and 20th-century American paintings, recently opened new galleries of Chinese, Japanese and Korean art. Current exhibitions: Master European paintings from the National Gallery of Ireland, featuring works by such artists as Goya, through Aug. 9; and paintings by Jacob Lawrence, depicting the lives of the abolitionists Frederick Douglass and Harriet Tubman, to Aug. 6. Open 10:30 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday; 10:30 A.M. to 8 P.M. Tuesday; 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. on Saturday, and noon to 5 P.M. Sunday. Admission is $6; Tuesday free.
To Aug. 2 at the Museum of Contemporary Art, 237 East Ontario Street, (312) 280-2660, in the exhibition "Geography = War," Alfredo Jaar uses mixed media sculptures to confront "the exploitation of simpler cultures by Western economies." Open Tuesday to Saturday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M; Sunday, noon to 5 P.M. Admission, $4; Tuesday free.
Visitors to the Field Museum of Natural History, Roosevelt Road at South Lake Shore Drive, (312) 922-9410, can see a collection of robotic insects and arachnids up to 12 feet long in "Backyard Monsters: The World of Insects," to Sept. 7. Among permanent exhibits are prehistoric skeletons and a re-creation of an Egyptian tomb. Open daily, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission is $4, $2.50 for children; Thursday free.
Across from the Field Museum, the Shedd Aquarium, 1200 South Lake Shore Drive, (312) 939-2438, juts out from the shore. Beluga whales and dolphins live in the two-million-gallon Oceanarium, the centerpiece of a Pacific Northwest coastal re-creation, complete with driftwood and beach pebbles. Open daily, 9 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission is $7; $5 for children and senior citizens. Advance purchase through Ticketmaster, (312) 559-0200, is recommended in summer.
Farther south near the University of Chicago, the enormously popular Museum of Science and Industry, 57th Street at Lake Shore Drive, (312) 684-1414, offers hands-on computer exhibitions, simulated subterranean journeys and re-creations of coal mines. Open daily 9:30 A.M. to 5:30 P.M. General admission is $5, $2 for children; free on Thursday. On view to early next year in the Omnimax Theater: "Ring of Fire," about volcanic eruptions in the Pacific Rim. Theater tickets are $5.50; $3.50 for children. For museum and theater: $8.50, $4.50 for children.
 
Where to Stay

The Hyatt on Printers Row, 500 South Dearborn Street, (312) 986-1234, is a handsome, intimate hotel a little off the tourist path in the loft and town house district south of the Loop. The hotel is home to Prairie, one of the city's best restaurants, lauded for its regional cuisine. Weekend rates begin at $69 a night on a two-night stay. Weekday rates begin at $115.
The Allerton Hotel, 701 North Michigan Avenue, (800) 621-8311 or (312) 440-1500, is on the Magnificent Mile, the city's premier shopping district. Doubles are $99 a night and $74 single or double on weekends.
The Sheraton Chicago Hotel and Towers, 301 North Water Street, (312) 329-7000, was famous even before it opened in the spring. Job seekers stood four-deep in the snow for a chance to work there and became a symbol of the recession. The convention hotel, between the lake and Michigan Avenue, is the newest entry in a saturated hotel market where rooms are plentiful this season. The Sheraton, with its Italian granite, warm wood interiors and floor-to-ceiling views of the Chicago River, has weekday rates of $140 and weekend rates of $105 a night for a two-night stay.
Budget: The Inn of Chicago, 162 East Ohio Street, (312) 787-3100, is a comfortable Best Western hotel a half block from Michigan Avenue. Summer rates start at $59 a night.The Raphael Hotel, 201 East Delaware Place, (312) 943-5000, with a low-key European atmosphere, is in a modest vintage building on a quiet side street near Michigan Avenue. Rates in July and August start at $89 a night.
Luxury: The Four Seasons Hotel, 120 East Delaware Place, (312) 280-8800, is an elegant haven overlooking North Michigan Avenue, near the beach and the toniest shopping on the Magnificent Mile. Summer rates begin at $165 a night.
The Hotel Nikko, 320 North Dearborn Street, (312) 744-1900, is an ultramodern hotel close to the Loop and the River North galleries. Rates begin at $195 on weekdays, $99 a night for a two-night weekend stay.
 
Where to Eat
 The River North Area west of Michigan Avenue and north of the Loop is a trendy cafe and gallery district with interesting restaurants.
At Gordon, 500 North Clark Street, (312) 467-9780, urbane and theatrical with its white swag draperies and trompe l'oeil walls, the fare is cutting-edge American -- artichoke fritters, a sandwich of duck and grilled portobello mushrooms, and filet mignon with black-olive potato cake. There is jazz on weekends for dancing and on Sundays one of the best brunches in town. Dinner for two with wine is about $100.
Tuttaposto, 646 North Franklin Street, (312) 943-6262, is a Mediterranean restaurant that opened last fall. Choices include cumin-marinated quail, potato gnocchi and Sardinian focaccia. Dinner for two with wine is about $50.
Frontera Grill, 445 North Clark Street, (312) 661-1434, is a chic Mexican restaurant with such offerings as lamb with pasilla chilies, and black beans or pork shoulder marinated in achiote (a Latin American spice) and baked slowly in banana leaves. Dinner for two with wine is about $65.
Star of Siam, 11 East Illinois Street, (312) 670-0100, offers generously spiced Thai cuisine in a loftlike setting serving good soup, lard nar (a noodle dish) and numerous basil and curry dishes, none of them exceeding $5.75. Dinner for two with wine: about $30.
A bit out of the way and worth the detour is Lou Mitchell's, 565 West Jackson Boulevard, (312) 939-3111, a diner west of the Loop that serves breakfast and lunch only and features double-yolked eggs, plate-sized French toast, enormous omelets and free Milk Duds. Breakfast for two: about $11.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 2, 1992, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A "What's Doing" article on July 12 about Chicago located Oak Park, Ill., incorrectly. It is west of the Loop.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Oak Street Beach is one of the city's most popular summertime spots. Stairwell in the Rookery Building. (Paul L. Merideth for The New York Times); "Flamingo" by Calder at the Federal Center. (Porterfield-Chickering)
 
Chart: "Vital Statistics" lists travel information and stastistics on Chicago. (Sources: Runzheimer International, Chicago Chamber of Commerce, The Times Books World Weather Guide)
 
Map of Chicago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WHAT'S DOING IN...(TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MICHIGAN AVENUE PARTNERS (66%); CHICAGO ARCHITECTURE FOUNDATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO ARCHITECTURE FOUNDATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHICAGO (ILL) UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL CITY LIFE (90%); BEACHES (88%); MUSIC (88%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (88%); FESTIVALS (86%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (84%); CITIES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); JAZZ & BLUES (68%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (68%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (68%); LAKES (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1992



409 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: Threats Used To Push Jobs for Minorities

BYLINE: By DONATELLA LORCH

 BODY:
A growing number of groups demanding jobs for black and Hispanic workers have been disrupting construction sites in New York City, beating workers and extorting money for labor peace, the police, prosecutors and industry officials say.
The proliferation of these groups, called minority coalitions, has bred sometimes-violent competition, with members waging intramural gun battles in the fight over turf. 
 The groups, law-enforcement officials and people in the construction industry say, are the jagged edge of a movement that has been trying since the 1960's to give black and Hispanic workers a toehold in the largely white and largely exclusionary building trades.
While such confrontations are far from new at construction sites in the city, they have become more and more frequent as unemployment sweeps the city's building trades, the officials say.
 
'It Has Nothing to Do With Race'
 "It is simple extortion," said Michael Cherkasky, chief of the investigative division in the Manhattan District Attorney's office, which recently prosecuted a major minority-coalition extortion case. "They're gangs. It has nothing to do with race. We've had cases with black contractors with an all-black work force shaken down."
Last month, when two school buses pulled up to a construction site on Queens Boulevard and more than 80 men jumped out, demanding jobs, Neville B. knew exactly what to do. He and his 10 fellow ironworkers laid down their tools and walked away from the site.
"We stopped work," said Neville B., according to an affidavit filed with his union, which insisted that his full name not be used. But even as he called for peace, one of the men grabbed a 2-by-4 and bashed him in the head. Minutes later, the group drove off. His head injury has kept him out of work since.
The week before, another coalition group visited the same construction site. The foreman tried to break up a fight. He was hit on the head and the face, and his nephew was gouged in the head with a claw hammer before the group jumped into a van and disappeared.
 
City's Protection Is Assailed
 There were 378 reported incidents like these in the past year, the police said in mid-June, compared with 542 for all of last year. Many others go unreported. The increase in confrontations has led contractors and unions to press the city for protection. And amid charges that it has been slow to realize the severity of the situation, the Dinkins administration has appointed a task force to look into security problems at public and private construction sites.
"The Mayor's Office of Construction is concerned about security at construction sites," said Daniel Kryston, deputy director of the office.
There is also a financial concern: Industry officials say the coalitions' activities add to the cost of construction, costs that are being largely borne by the taxpayers because the recession has hit government projects less hard than private ones.
The coalitions, even the least confrontational, draw their power from a simple fact of the construction business: even a short workday disruption can cost contractors thousands of dollars. As a result, many are willing to hire a few people immediately, or pay to stop the picketing, law-enforcement officials say.
Among the coalitions, though, the line between the legitimacy and illegitimacy is not always clear.
 
Civil Rights or a Scam?
 The more established groups, like Harlem Fight Back and Positive Work Force, say they are civil-rights organizations that use picketing and diplomacy to provide jobs for members of their communities. And they take pains to distinguish themselves from the others, which law-enforcement and industry officials say are essentially money-making scams that use violence and intimidation to take advantage of the legitimate groups' reputations and their unemployed clients' needs.
"It is wrong to fight other groups and it is wrong to extort money from contractors for labor peace," said James Haughton, the director of Harlem Fight Back, the city's oldest community coalition, founded in 1964. "But the genuine ones, there is no recognition of their roles. There is a major, major crisis in the inner city among young workers that have been totally forgotten, cast aside largely because of the policies and practices of governmental agencies that exclude workers from participating in the employment structure of the city. This is a tinderbox that will explode."
Still, all the groups have been involved in violence at work sites at one time or another, even though many say they fight back only in self-defense.
"I'd rather go to jail to feed my family than because I stole from you," said Alfonso Rivera, the president of Positive Work Force, which has operated from Harlem since the mid-80's.
 
3 Gunfights in Brooklyn
 In the last month there have been at least three gunfights involving coalitions in Brooklyn; after a gun battle broke out between opposing groups in front of the United Brooklyn Coalition headquarters in Park Slope, the police arrested 29 people and seized eight guns in the building, including four Tec-9 semiautomatic pistols and two .45-caliber semiautomatics. Last year, the leader of a Queens coalition was shot and killed as he left his home. Though no arrests have been made, the police say he may have been the target of a rival group.
There have been major indictments as well, though officials say that the groups are difficult to prosecute and penetrate, because fear of retaliation has muzzled construction workers as well as other coalition members. Last month a 20-count Federal indictment in Manhattan charged four men with using violence and threats to extort jobs for minority workers and more than $20,000 from contractors in Harlem between last October and April. One of the men, Mustafa Majeed, is the owner of G.C.M. Construction Inc.
The debate over tactics aside, the slump in the construction industry is staggering. With the city mired in recession, more than 50,000 unionized construction workers, fully half the unionized force, are out of work, said Louis J. Coletti, president of the New York Building Congress, which represents contractors and labor unions. While there are no figures available, industry and coalition leaders agree that the jobless rate is far higher among black and Hispanic workers, who have had great difficulty penetrating the unions.
Law-enforcement officials say the coalitions have proliferated, from 18 last year to more than 35 now, not only because of the industry slump but also because they are extremely lucrative businesses. The sites are often large outdoor areas involving road and tunnel construction, with a few men to dozens of workers, and are difficult to police. Coalition groups can swoop into the area and create havoc in only a few minutes, and a job shutdown for a few hours can translate into a loss of tens of thousands of dollars.
 
Hiring or Paying Protection
 These coalition members will appear at job sites in large numbers, often physically theatening workers and forcing work to stop until the contractor either agrees to hire several of their people or settle on a price for protection from other coalitions, the police say. Members pay as much as 30 percent of their earnings to their coalition, law-enforcement officials said. Intimidation goes both ways. Contractors say it is common practice for coalitions to ask them to dismiss one of their members who has not paid his coalition dues.
Coalition names can crop up and disappear within days and many new ones are the result of schisms in existing organizations. Contractors and law-enforcement officials say the most violent are United New York, United Brooklyn, Akbar Community Services and the Black Economic Survival Group. None of the groups would return repeated telephone calls from a reporter.
Mr. Rivera, of Positive Work Force, says his group faces risks, too. One of his members was killed last year when a construction worker opened fire on a site in the Bronx.
Mr. Rivera says he finds a steady stream of jobs for his members and never through the use of violence. "We don't have a beef with anybody," he said, adding that 50 percent of his jobs were secured over the phone.
 
Impossible to Appease All
 Worried about violence, contractors have given orders to stop working as soon as coalitions arrive. But with the increasing number of coalitions harassing one site, contractors can no longer appease one without antagonizing the other. The construction site at Kings County Medical Center in Brooklyn has been harassed by five different coalitions, contractors and workers say.
This violence has added a new element to the dangers of the construction work site: fear. The transit authority construction site where Nab Construction Corporation is working, on Queens Boulevard at 41st Street, has been harassed four times this month. Many of the 8 to 10 workers now double as sentries. They worry as they work.
"They should be stopped," said the foreman, who insisted that his name not be used for fear of retailation. "It's not fair to us. The business is dangerous enough. Now we're constantly looking over our shoulder. We wonder whether they're following us home."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); EXTORTION; ASSAULTS; LABOR; BLACKS (IN US);
SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); RACIAL RELATIONS CONSTRUCTION (92%); EXTORTION (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); MAYORS (67%); HEAD INJURIES (67%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (65%); APPOINTMENTS (62%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%); 

PERSON: LORCH, DONATELLA; CHERKASKY, MICHAEL MICHAEL G CHERKASKY (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1992



410 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 12; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Lean Times? Not at the Specialty Grocer

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER

 BODY:
PRESTON TURCO, owner of Turco's Super Ranch Specialty Supermarket in Hartsdale, spends time every day observing his customers' buying habits.
"The more I know about what draws customers into the store, the better," Mr. Turco said. "Today, people are seeking freshness and quality. And they want variety." 
 Ranked as one of the most successful specialty food retailers in the country, Turco's rang up $17 million in sales last year. This year, despite the recession, Mr. Turco said sales are up 10 percent over last year.
 
An Average 7 Percent Profit Margin
 Specialty food stores are one of the fastest-growing segments of the food industry in the country, said Ronald Tanner, communications director for the National Association for the Specialty Food Trade, the industry's association.
A survey commissioned six months ago by the trade group, he said, revealed that 33.4 percent of Americans now shop in specialty food stores. "In households with annual incomes of over $50,000 the percentage is even higher: 47.6 percent," Mr. Tanner said. "Last year, specialty food stores generated $11.5 billion in sales nationwide."
Volume, he added, has been increasing at about 8 percent a year. By comparison with supermarkets, which have tremendous volume sales but only about 1 percent profit margins, specialty stores, with higher markups, average 7 percent profit margins.
"We probably have a wider variety of produce, meats, seafood, baked goods, cheeses and prepared foods than can be found anywhere," Mr. Turco said. "Our fish department alone is the largest in Westchester. Every morning, Sammy, our fish buyer, goes to the Fulton Market. We sell 5,000 pounds of fish a week, which includes 1,000 pounds of shrimp."
For produce, his market sends two 45-foot tractor trailers to Hunts Point Market every day to bring back fruits and vegetables "from fresh herbs to tropical fruits," he said.
Mr. Turco claims his prices are in line with area supermarkets because, as an independent, he is able to adjust his prices daily. "If we make a buy in strawberries at the market one morning," he said, "the customer gets a bargain in strawberries on that day."
Four Turco brothers-in-law are part of the managerial team of six managers and six department heads in charge of running the store. Three executive chefs with three assistants operate the kitchens and bakery. Besides its prepared-food takeout department, the store, Mr. Turco said, does a brisk catering business.
 
Outgrowth of a Vegetable Market
 The store began its operation as a small vegetable and fruit store, 20 feet wide by 2 feet deep, in the Bronx. With the help of his wife, Evelyn, and by working seven days a week for 10 years, Mr. Turco said, they built up the business, which now has 150 employees.
Many of these employees now work 10 to 20 hours a week in overtime. "It's one sign of the recession," Mr. Turco explained. "What's happened is some of our employees' spouses have lost their jobs, others need the extra money, whatever. It works well for us since we'd rather pay time and a half in overtime for experienced employees than spend money on training new employees and having additional health-care costs to pay for as well."
The increase in single households, working couples and the recession are contributing factors to the growth of specialty stores, Mr. Tanner said.
"More people are patronizing specialty food stores for a variety of reasons," he said. "They may have less time to spend in meal preparation, yet they want quality food. And American tastes have become more sophisticated. They've become familiar with other cuisines. While the recession may be curtailing travel or restaurant-going, for a comparatively small outlay consumers can satisfy their adventuresome food tastes at the specialty food store."
 
Alternative to Dining Out
 Angelo Letizia and Frank Bartolomeo, owners of a specialty store in Armonk, Village Prime Meats, noted that more of their customers are taking out prepared foods as an alternative to dining out.
"Our customers are into food and they care about quality; they're very knowledgeable," Mr. Letizia said. "In the six years we've been in business, we've had an increase in sales every year. We keep expanding almost every department."
The deli offers smoked fish, imported cheeses and salads. "We have gourmet groceries on the shelves, 19 exotic coffees," Mr. Letizia said. "We sell fancy game and a half-dozen varieties of sausages that we make right here. One of our most popular items, broasted chicken, was added at the suggestion of a customer."
Mr. Letizia said the partners are about to open a second store in Somers.
"We'll have everything that we have been successful with here," he said. "Especially the butcher shop. We carry only prime meat -- custom cut -- and custom poultry. Organic turkeys sell for about $2.99 a pound, double the price of the average turkey, but a lot of customers feel they are worth the difference, so we stock them."
In Yorktown, the owners of the Bear Mountain Dairy, Peter Andolino and Gary Kull, said they studied the success of the specialty food stores and the wholesale-priced warehouse clubs and tried to combine the best features of both under one roof.
 
'We Pass the Savings Along'
 "Our store is based on a different concept," Mr. Andolino said. "It seems to have a lot of appeal for people who are looking for quality and value. Although we sell a full line of gourmet coffees, gourmet produce, custom-cut prime meats and high-quality takeout foods such as stuffed lobster and seafood salads, we also sell staples at a price lower than can be found at the area supermarkets. As independent proprietors, we can set the prices ourselves.
"Whenever we make a good buy on a trailer load of paper products, for instance, which we sell right from pallettes on the floor, we pass the savings along. Since we have no shelves in the store, labor costs are contained."
The store also made an investment in electronics "because we know our customers, a lot of whom are young, white-collar families, want to get in and out quickly," Mr. Andolino said. "We've installed scanners to speed things up."
Two years ago, Billy Fortin and Neil Hill, two long-time employees of Scotts Corner Market in Pound Ridge, with a third partner, George Polipzi, bought Scotts Corner, which Mr. Fortin describes as a full-service upscale supermarket.
 
Sharing With the Employees
 "Scotts Corner has a long reputation for quality and we hope to build on that," Mr. Fortin said, "the store has always appealed to a diverse clientele: serious cooks who can choose from a selection of hard-to-find products; seniors, whom we give a 10 percent reduction across the board to on Wednesdays, and a lot of working couples who buy the top quality food prepared every day by our cook."
The store, he said, has 100 selections of prepared food made on the site from which shoppers can "choose the evening's dinner."
Mr. Fortin also described an unusual plan that will eventually give the 120 Scotts Corner employees a piece of the business.
"When you have a stake in a business, you're motivated to work harder," Mr. Fortin said. "This is a demanding industry. The hours are long and the work is hard. By giving employees part of the company we think we will be even more successful. As far as I know, we'll be the only employee-owned food store in Westchester."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Preston Turco, owner of a specialty food market in Hartsdale, says his sales are running 10 percent ahead of last year. (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: TURCO'S SUPER RANCH SPECIALTY SUPERMARKET (NY); VILLAGE PRIME MEATS (ARMONK, NY); SCOTTS CORNER (POUND RIDGE, NY); BEAR MOUNTAIN DAIRY (YORKTOWN, NY) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TURCO'S SUPER RANCH SPECIALTY SUPERMARKET (NY); VILLAGE PRIME MEATS (ARMONK, NY); SCOTTS CORNER (POUND RIDGE, NY); BEAR MOUNTAIN DAIRY (YORKTOWN, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD SPECIALTY FOOD STORES (92%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (89%); PREPARED FOODS (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); RETAILERS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); CATERING SERVICES (76%); CHEESE (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BAKED GOODS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); BAKERIES (64%); 

PERSON: PRESTON TURCO (94%); ANGELO LETIZIA (66%); RONALD TANNER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1992



411 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Worried by Ridership Figures, Metro-North Is Trying Harder

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
METRO-NORTH, the second-largest commuter railroad in the country, is treating passengers like honored guests these days. Conductors have been attending what the railroad calls charm school. All personnel who deal with the public are wearing newly designed uniforms, and special customer ambassadors -- dressed in a snappy gray and maroon version of the outfits -- stand waiting in Grand Central Terminal to greet travelers as they disembark in Manhattan.
Ridership figures slipped last year, and the Metropolitan Transit Authority's spending plans for long-range improvements have not been approved by New York State. As a result, Metro-North, a division of the Metropolitan Transit Authority, is attempting to shore up its customer base, which last year provided close to 55 percent of the company's operating revenue. 
 Budget concerns notwithstanding, the commuter line is planning new amenities for its 195,076 daily riders: on-board cellular phones within the year and perhaps fax machines, elegant dinners to buy on the train and take home and classes for commuters in subjects like French for the traveler, accounting for nonaccountants and playing a better game of bridge.
 
Capital Improvement Funds Denied
 More ideas await implementation in later years, said Randall J. Fleischer, the company's manager for customer service and planning. He predicted on-board television and business-class cars.
Financing for the Metropolitan Transit Authority's five-year capital improvement program was denied by the State Capital Program Review Board, and only funds for the current fiscal year were approved by the State Legislature this spring. So Metro-North, like other divisions of the transit authority, is operating on a year-to-year budget.
"But no projects will be dropped off the table," said Joan McDonald, assistant director for capital planning. "We're operating as though we're eventually going to get the full funding."
The recession and attendant high unemployment figures contributed to almost 2,000 fewer passengers last year on the commuter trains, which travel from Dutchess and Fairfield Counties through Westchester to Grand Central each weekday. In addition to the decline in daily commuter activity, there were also fewer discretionary riders -- people traveling to Manhattan to shop, dine or attend the theater and other events.
"These are tough economic times," said Genevieve T. Firnhaber, executive vice president for Metro-North. "We're a service business, and if we don't deliver, our customers are not going to come back."
 
95 Percent On-Time Record
 The 1 percent drop in ridership represented a loss of $2 million in fares for last year, out of a total budget of $478 million, Mrs. Firnhaber said. This year's budget is $521.3 million, and although ridership figures appear to be increasing once again, it is too early to know for certain, she said.
In an attempt to win back riders and convince others that they should switch from their cars to the train, Metro-North, which says it has a 95 percent on-time record of arrivals and departures, has been advertising on radio and television and in publications. The ads are aimed at a customer base with a median annual household income of $87,500.
 
'You Have Got to Be Nuts to Drive'
 "Face it, drivers," says one ad that Metro-North has run on the radio in recent months. "There is no fun getting there in your car these days." To reinforce the commuter line's message, the ad cites hurdles along I-95, the Saw Mill River Parkway and the F.D.R. Drive.
"It's very simple," said Howard R. Permut, vice-president of Planning and Development. "The message is to take the train and that you have got to be nuts to drive."
In developing the ad campaign, Mr. Permut said, "the first thing is to know who your customers are and what they want."
Recent studies of Metro-North's daily commuters show that their median age is 38 and that 42 percent have an annual household income of more than $100,000. A significant proportion, 36 percent, work in financial services, communications and marketing and sales.
"They are young, and they make good money," said Daniel Brucker, a Metro-North spokesman. "And that's why with these demographics, we're taking a hard look at things like haute cuisine to go and upscale advertising."
The studies showed that commuters tended to be fairly affluent and numbered more men than women, but women outnumbered men as discretionary riders -- "freelancers and writers," Mr. Permut said, who were traveling to Manhattan from places like White Plains for work-related reasons.
Patricia Doniger, manager for new products, recently began selling ad space on bill stuffers that accompany Metro-North's monthly mailing to commuters. In addition to increasing ridership, she said, Metro-North is "going to have to be more creative and generate revenue that is not necessarily fare related."
During an initial three-month marketing test, advertising space purchased by Citibank, the New York Knicks, Coca-Cola and Loews Hotels, among others, grossed close to $40,000 for the rail line, Mrs. Doniger said.
 
Optimistic Despite Lack of Funds
 While management studies the demographics, develops plans to sell things other than rail travel, mounts advertising campaigns and debates whether to defer fare increases, Metro-North's planning department is proceeding with the first phases of its latest capital improvement program -- despite the state's refusal this spring to commit to long-term funding of the transit authority.
Close to $979 million in improvements are planned for Metro- North's five routes: the Hudson, New Haven, Harlem, Port Jervis and Pascack Valley Lines, which were acquired from Conrail by the Metropolitan Transit Authority in 1983. The commuter railroad's earlier capital improvement programs were, in part, an attempt to "play catch-up" with a system that was in shambles, said Donald N. Nelson, the company's president.
In that program, which cost $803.4 million and ran from 1987 to 1991, Metro-North spent $44 million to acquire rolling stock and $82 million for track improvements. Close to $100 million was used to improve stations, including major renovations at North White Plains and Peekskill.
In addition to the rehabilitation of Grand Central Terminal, which will cost an estimated $130 million, the capital improvement plan for the coming five years includes $36 million to upgrade 13 stations and comply with the Americans With Disabilities Act.
Among those stations are Poughkeepsie, Croton-Harmon, Tarrytown and Yonkers on the Hudson Line, Rye and New Rochelle on the New Haven Line and Brewster-North, White Plains and Fordham on the Harlem Line. In Manhattan, the 125th Street Station and Grand Central Terminal will also be made more accessible to handicapped and elderly riders.
Another $9 million is expected to be spent to expand parking lots, a project that Mr. Nelson said would alleviate what has become one of the primary impediments to expanding ridership.
Also included in the proposed capital improvement plan are bridge improvements and the addition of a third track on the Harlem Line between Mount Vernon and Crestwood, a route traveled by 23,000 people a day. The track, which will cost $33 million, will allow an additional 28 express trains an hour at peak times.
Clean-up of hazardous waste material in the soil and in a lagoon at the Croton-Harmon rail yard in Croton-on-Hudson would cost $11.5 million.
 
Aiming at Reverse Commuting
 Mr. Nelson, who started as a brakeman in 1954 on the Great Northern Railway in Seattle, said more of Metro-North's future expansion efforts would be directed at reverse commuting, people traveling, for example, from Manhattan to jobs in White Plains, Stamford and Greenwich. The company is working with state and local governments and with private companies, he said, to supply vans and buses to take riders from train stations to their jobs.
In looking at nationwide patterns, Metro-North's troubles are similar to what transit systems throughout the country are facing. "This is a difficult period, mainly because of the recession and declining ridership," said Charles O. Bishop Jr., executive director of communications for the American Public Transit Association, a nonprofit trade association in Washington.
Despite the difficulties they are facing, commuter rail lines are the fastest-growing mode of public transit, Mr. Bishop said. The trend, he said, can be attributed to the fact that many people, because of high housing costs in close-in areas, are living farther from their jobs and the fact that there is a growing awareness among commuters that trains have less of a negative impact on the environment than cars and buses.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Peekskill train station on the Hudson line of Metro-North, where a new ramp and platform were built recently as part of the railroad's $803.4 million capital improvement program. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD CO METROPOLITAN TRANSIT AUTHORITY HOUSTON (70%); METROPOLITAN TRANSIT AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD CO METROPOLITAN TRANSIT AUTHORITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); TRAINS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (79%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); APPROVALS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CARD GAMES (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); COMPANY REVENUES (54%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1992



412 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 22; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: Sometimes It's Like Being a Dodger Fan

BYLINE: By Robert Siegel; Robert Siegel is a host of the National Public Radio program "All Things Considered."

 BODY:

SAVING REMNANTS
Feeling Jewish in America.
By Sara Bershtel and Allen Graubard.
333 pp. New York:
The Free Press. $24.95. 
 IN "Saving Remnants," a collection of mostly anonymous interviews edited and refined into brief autobiographical essays, Jewish baby boomers express their feelings of Jewishness and describe the choices they have made to remain in varying degree Jewish. In their interpretive commentary, Sara Bershtel and Allen Graubard maintain that choice has supplanted commandment for this generation. The authors' informants represent an array of choices: non affiliation; membership in mainstream synagogues and communal organizations; traditional Orthodoxy; new Orthodoxy; Hasidism; conversion from other religions.
The people the authors spoke with include Jews whose formative experiences were as benign as those known by any prior Jewish generation: they enjoyed the social mobility of the post-World War II American economy, had easy access to education, moved into the professions and the suburbs, took part in the civil rights movement and its consequent emphasis on minority pride and dignity, and applauded the Arab-Israeli war of 1967, with its triumphant appeal to Jewish solidarity.
Yet as the title suggests, this picture of some postwar American Jews is one of neither triumph nor comfort. It is about how these people's feelings about their religion are often ambivalent and conflicted.
Approximately half of America's Jews, the authors claim, seek no communal affiliation and identify Judaism as something that happened to them in childhood. A Philadelphia sports journalist says: "Jewish is artifacts. Jewish is being a Dodger fan and being a Democrat and talking in a certain way. . . . [Now] the Dodgers are in L.A.; Judaism is falling apart. To me, these have similar significance."
Most affiliated American Jews adhere to the mainstream, American-nurtured movements (Reform, Conservative and Reconstructionist) and, to judge only from these accounts, feel Jewish to the degree that they raise funds, support Israel and combat anti-Semitism.
For questionable editorial reasons, Ms. Bershtel, a book editor in New York, and Mr. Graubard, who teaches in the schools of Oakland, Calif., offered anonymity to the people they interviewed, and nearly all accepted. Why? Certainly two of the more compelling stories in "Saving Remnants" carry the names of the journalists Paul Berman and Carolyn Craven. The disguised majority are not discussing a crime, an illness or a psychiatric complaint, just being Jewish, and need not fear reprisals.
Yet had the Philadelphia sports journalist who compared Judaism to the Dodgers used his name, a certain sense of civility might have kept him from saying, "If Jewishness disappeared completely off the face of the earth, what would be lost?" Does anonymity make the interview more fruitful or honest or intelligent -- or more prone to tentative opinions, thinly reasoned, loosely held and loudly asserted?
The authors' comments are always intelligent, but at times unduly pessimistic. They think mainstream Jewish religious and communal life is excessively secularized, propped up by such temporal causes as Israel, efforts to confront anti-Semitism and the American system of voluntary social services.
Indeed, the strengths of mainstream American synagogue and communal life may lie more in its adaptability and pragmatism than in its intellectual and spiritual depths. The authors are, after all, writing about assimilated American Jews, the descendants of immigrants, some of whom fled their rabbis. Few here mention an inspiring rabbi.
"SAVING REMNANTS" presents many secular Jews who would probably abandon Judaism if its merits were only personal and spiritual, stripped of the rich cultural context they value highly. But it also presents stories of many Jews who discover their own reasons to be Jewish. A university teacher, recalling her adolescent aversion to the Orthodox congregation of which her father was president, characterizes a woman in a Jewish community as "a peripheral person . . . on the outskirts, negligible, one's intelligence not counting." Today she chants the Torah for her egalitarian Chicago congregation and has introduced several feminist innovations to their services. "I guess it's a sign of real maturity that I can do what my parents would have wanted me to do, without that being the reason for doing it." She speaks with wit and self-confidence yet she is self-deflating at the same time. "Saving Remnants" contains many other interesting observers. Too bad they're not all on the record.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SAVING REMNANTS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS JEWS & JUDAISM (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); RELIGION (91%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); FUNDRAISING (73%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); WORLD WAR II (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); 

PERSON: SIEGEL, ROBERT; BERSHTEL, SARA; GRAUBARD, ALLEN ALLEN GRAUBARD (73%); SARA BERSHTEL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1992



413 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: He Found $50 Billion in a Five-and-Ten-Cent Store

BYLINE: By Richard Lingeman; Richard Lingeman, the executive editor of The Nation, is the author of "Small Town America" and a two-volume biography of Theodore Dreiser.

 BODY:

SAM WALTON
Made in America: My Story.
By Sam Walton with John Huey.
Illustrated. 269 pp. New York:
Doubleday. $22.50. 
 IN 1945, Sam Walton opened a dime store on the courthouse square in Newport, Ark., a small town like those in which he was raised. By 1951 he had launched his third store, Walton's Five and Dime, in Bentonville, Ark., where he made his permanent home and where Wal-Mart, the company he founded a decade later, would establish its corporate headquarters. By 1990, Wal-Mart had become the largest retail chain in the world, with 1,748 stores. In 1992, its sales are expected to total $53 billion.
Walton's autobiography, which he worked on with John Huey, a senior editor at Fortune magazine, until Walton's death in April at the age of 74, seems a sure-fire all-American success story: the Horatio Alger tale of an ordinary guy who made it big by remaining true to his small-town roots. As Walton writes, Wal-Mart's basic strategy was "simply to put good-sized discount stores into little one-horse towns which everybody else was ignoring."
Walton had seen firsthand the demise of the retailing era he knew as a boy, when farmers drove to country towns on Saturday to do their trading. After World War II, the number of farmers dwindled; their sons and daughters moved to urban -- or rather suburban -- areas. Housing developments spread over rural land like kudzu; an expanding grid of interstate highways and trunk roads accelerated urban sprawl; shopping malls sprouted in former cornfields to lure a new breed of mobile shoppers, who were willing to drive 50 miles for a bargain. Mass marketing, television and personal mobility forged cultural links between rural and urban consumers.
By the early 1960's, Walton had realized that discounting was the wave of the future and began opening the first Wal-Marts, which featured high volume and low, low prices. He planted his stores, standardized modules that came in five different sizes, in rural locations bypassed by his largest competitors -- Target, Kmart and Woolco. He would often pick new sites by aerial survey: an obsessive, hands-on manager, he had learned to fly in order to keep a close check on his scattered stores. As he buzzed the countryside, he could see the pattern of rural traffic or urban sprawl. He would pick a site outside town boundaries, where the land was cheaper and taxes lower, and then add other stores in nearby towns, until he had saturated a marketing area.
His only competition was the town merchants, who could not offer the low prices, the parking space or the consumerist cornucopia of a Wal-Mart store. The company built a sophisticated high-tech distribution operation -- 20 warehouses around the country (whose combined size would equal that of 23 football fields) that stock 85 percent of the 80,000 items Wal-Mart sells, where orders are fed to waiting delivery trucks on laser-guided conveyor belts. Mammoth mainframe computers in Bentonville voraciously crunch the daily sales numbers relayed by satellite from every cash-register scanner in every store.
No question that Sam Walton was a Napoleon of merchandising, keeping his troops lean and competitive, demanding 16-hour days of his managers, giving his "associates" pep talks, exhorting them to look customers in the eye, personally leading them in the company cheer ("Give me a W! . . .") and installing "people greeters" at the door, whose job is both to exude friendliness and to warn shoplifters that We're Watching You. Wal-Mart is stubbornly anti-union, and Walton confesses that in the early days he underpaid his employees. He has since instituted incentive bonuses, discount stock purchases and a profit-sharing plan, on which an employee collects when he or she leaves the company.
"Sam Walton: Made in America" is a very readable, down-to-earth story of Walton's life, a life so completely immersed in Wal-Mart that it serves as a history of the company. It is also informative about Walton's business methods, and his colleagues add testimonials and anecdotes. The lay reader learns some nuts-and-bolts details about retailing, all about fast-selling items that "blow out the door," "action alley" (the big aisle behind the checkout counter) and "shrinkage" (loss from theft).
But a full assessment of the economic and social impact of Wal-Mart needs a more objective narrator. The company has, willy-nilly, been a powerful agent for socioeconomic change, and sociologists study "the Wal-Marting of rural America." In some towns the news that the Wal-Martians were coming caused local businesses to shut their doors; many of those that held on went under, leaving gaping storefronts along Main Street.
Walton counters that the downtown merchants who flopped deserved to. "The small stores were just destined to disappear," he writes, "because the whole thing is driven by the customers, who are free to choose where to shop." What's more, for every town that opposes Wal-Mart, "I'd say we have another 200 begging us to come."
There's some truth there, and studies in Kansas and Iowa have shown that many Wal-Marts strengthen local economies and create new jobs (albeit low-wage, nonunion ones) to replace the ones that have been lost. But Wal-Marts have a particularly deleterious impact on the smaller, more vulnerable towns in a store's 20-mile trading radius, vacuuming dollars from their businesses and leaving them to survive -- if they do -- as bedroom communities.
Some towns that want to preserve the central business district as the beating economic and social heart of the community have resisted Wal-Mart's incursions, denying zoning permits or persuading the company to situate within the municipal limits, so the store will pull business to Main Street rather than away from it. For its part, Wal-Mart seems to have become more sensitive to demands that it involve itself in community activities.
Sam Walton preaches "think small" and writes, "Above all, we are small-town merchants." That's a good management philosophy for a $50 billion corporation, but it has little to do with small-town values or valuing small towns -- that is, in ways that cannot be quantified on a spreadsheet.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sam Walton in 1984. (Rick Reach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

TITLE: SAM WALTON: MADE IN AMERICA: MY STORY (BOOK)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (75%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (75%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (75%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (87%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (86%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); WORLD WAR II (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); SALES PROJECTIONS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (54%); 

PERSON: LINGEMAN, RICHARD; WALTON, SAM; HUEY, JOHN SAM MOORE WALTON (99%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1992



414 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 12, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Survival of the Loudest

BYLINE: By Nicholas Lemann; Nicholas Lemann, author of "The Promised Land: The Great Black Migration and How It Changed America," is a national correspondent for The Atlantic.

 BODY:
Politically, the lesson of the Presidential campaign so far is that anger trumps.
The candidates who have done better than expected have been best at striking an indignant-outsider pose: Pat Buchanan, Paul Tsongas, Jerry Brown and, finally and most dramatically, Ross Perot. Even the Bush-Quayle ticket is trying to appear as fed up with Washington as it plausibly can. 
 It's possible to tease out of these campaigns a political story line that can be used (with variations) all the way across the ideological spectrum. It goes like this:
1. The country is in crisis. Never mind the political science bromides that during peacetime and rocky-but-not-disastrous economic conditions people want continuity rather than change. So far, voters are responding to a picture of the nation as perched on the brink of real disaster.
2. The crisis is the fault of a small, cosseted, evil group. The group might be Congress or welfare mothers or lobbyists for Japanese companies or cultural liberals or political-action committees. Any news story that seems to confirm this suspicion (like the House bank scandal) engenders a tremendous public response and sends politicians and the media scurrying to demonstrate that they, too, are reacting with fascination and horror.
3. The people hurt worst are members of the great middle class -- "the forgotten middle class," as Bill Clinton calls it.
4. The way to resolve the crisis is through a dramatic change in leadership (in the Bush campaign's version, a change in Congressional leadership). New, good leaders will send the evil group packing and bring back good times for the middle class.
The story line owes a lot to our populist tradition, but there are differences. Classic populism flourishes during depressions, not recessions, and its constituency is people in desperate economic trouble and cut off from the mainstream of national life.
Traditional populist rhetoric appeals to "the little people" and "poor folks." But contemporary Presidential candidates who are true populists, like Tom Harkin and Jesse Jackson, haven't done well. What we have now is the triumph of middle class populism -- a creed that appeals to voters who would be offended if a politician told them they were the little people.
Middle class populism has been a wonderful strategy for winning elections. It brought the Republicans out of the ashes after 1964, it could revive the Democrats this year and it lies at the heart of the Perot campaign. But its apotheosis will almost surely not be the prelude to a golden age of governance. Middle class populism fosters a fantasy of oppression that has little to do with the state of the country.
The U.S. isn't really in a wholesale crisis. There isn't really an evil group responsible for our problems. The people who are hurting worst and who need the most help are the poor and the working class, not the middle class. And a change in leadership won't make much difference because our leaders are already following the will of the people (especially the middle class) with fantastic devotion. You'd never know from the campaign that only two months ago the worst domestic disturbance in a generation, and the most obvious sign of trouble in the U.S. in 1992, took place in Los Angeles. As far as national politics is concerned, if it didn't involve the middle class, it didn't happen.
The natural impulse is to attribute 1992's populism to current conditions -- mainly the recession. But this explanation is too narrow. Anger has been at or near the center of Presidential politics for almost a quarter century. In large part it is the result of longer-term issues than the current state of the economy.
In 1968, Kevin Phillips, a young Nixon aide and author of "The Emerging Republican Majority," correctly predicted that playing on middle class voters' resentment of the cultural elite could help win a Presidential election. Vice President Dan Quayle's recent maneuverings have been right out of the Phillips playbook. Meanwhile, Mr. Phillips has been saying that the way to run for President now is to play on middle class voters' resentment of the economic elite. This year, several Democratic campaigns have taken this advice.
In 1972, Pat Caddell helped construct an outsider campaign for George McGovern, whose themes were similar to the outsider campaigns he later created for Gary Hart and Jerry Brown. Hamilton Jordan, architect of Jimmy Carter's run against the Washington establishment in 1976, is now one of Ross Perot's campaign managers. And Ronald Reagan, the dominant American politician of the last 25 years, was the most adept outsider candidate of all.
Why are people so upset? Part of it is that the social order established at the end of World War II has, during one of the more stable periods in American history, become creaky and arteriosclerotic. The political and economic system is less flexible, less able to respond to changing conditions than it was a generation ago.
An even more important source of anger is the great shift in the postwar economy. In the 1950's and 1960's, indices like median family income, productivity and average weekly wages grew rapidly. In the early 1970's, however, with the OPEC oil embargo, growth leveled off abruptly.
Because of the time lag between economic conditions and people's expectations, it was late in the postwar boom before a prosperity mentality set in -- look at almost any house built in the 1950's and 1960's and you'll see how un-plush those prosperous decades really were.
Expectations still haven't adjusted to the virtual nongrowth of the last 20 years. At the same time, the range and number of citizens demanding a share of the American dream has increased since the boom days, when women and members of racial and ethnic minorities were second-class citizens economically, and quiescent. The result is a sour and fragmented country, whose public discourse is dominated by a cacophony of complaints.
In his interviews with the journalist William Greider a decade ago, David Stockman, Ronald Reagan's first budget director, complained that the Government is beholden to "powerful clients with weak claims." Exactly the same point can be made about political rhetoric in our media culture.
Unlike the political machines it replaced, the press-polling-advertising nexus that dominates politics is very good at letting a multiplicity of voices be heard, but it is bad at adjudicating among them. Inevitably, the complaints of the middle class -- the largest, most powerful group in the society -- dominate.
The politician most responsible for figuring out how to appeal to the frustrations of the middle class was Howard Jarvis, father of Proposition 13 in California. Mr. Jarvis's inspiration was to move political debate from the spending side of government, where it had been for years, to the revenue side. Ronald Reagan quickly picked up on Mr. Jarvis's idea of putting tax cuts at the center of a political agenda.
But when he became President, Mr. Reagan found that the middle class, which wanted its taxes cut, was also passionate about protecting Government programs that benefited its own members. The interlocking political taboos against tax increases and cuts in entitlements helped create an enormous deficit -- and then, irony of ironies, the deficit became the emblem of a crisis produced by bad leaders who didn't listen to the middle class.
The truth is that the deficit was produced by leaders who listened to the middle class only too well. While they were attending to its wants and feeding its sense of grievance, society's worst problems -- the suffering and social chaos in the ghettos, deindustrialization -- went unattended, and they have gotten more and more severe. Villains aren't causing these problems. We are.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); BUDGETS (74%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); LOBBYING (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); SCANDALS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); 

PERSON: LEMANN, NICHOLAS BILL CLINTON (58%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); JERRY BROWN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1992



415 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Anyone Who Knows Schools Could See Falling Scores Coming

 BODY:
To the Editor:
For most parents and teachers, there's no debate about the cause of the drop in achievement scores in New York City public schools (news report June 26). We recognize the pattern because we've seen it before.
When school budgets were devastated in the city's last fiscal crisis in the mid-1970's, we lost a generation of kids. Crammed into dilapidated classrooms, without adequate books and supplies, they dropped out in record numbers and became the unemployed and unemployable adolescents and young adults of today. 
 By the late 80's, the system began to rebuild: class sizes were reduced; new educational standards and programs came in; entry-level salaries were raised to attract qualified teachers, and teachers received valuable support and training. Higher reading and math scores, increased attendance and fewer dropouts resulted.
In the last two years, schoolchildren have had the rug pulled out from under them again. Three-quarters of a billion dollars was cut from the school budget. Huge classes, outdated and insufficient textbooks, and rotting buildings have taken their toll. Experienced teachers have fled to better-paying suburbs.
For city officials to say better management would have solved these problems is a denial of their obligation to our children. Unless this cynical attitude changes, the next generation of young adults -- and the next city administration -- will reap the whirlwind of their irresponsible leadership.
 
SANDRA FELDMAN
President
United Federation of Teachers
New York, June 26, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (54%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (54%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MATHEMATICS (74%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); 

PERSON: SIR GEORGE YOUNG (54%); SANDRA FELDMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



416 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 2613 words

HEADLINE: THE CAMPAIGN;
Democrats Display a New Optimism, Reflected in Poll

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
Fired by new optimism about Gov. Bill Clinton's appeal, Democrats will open a national convention in New York today that their leaders describe as a carefully scripted kickoff for a party more eager to win this fall than to argue this week.
The Democrats' new sense of possibilities was underscored by the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll, which shows Mr. Clinton gaining ground in a tight three-way race. Mr. Clinton now essentially ties President Bush when voters are asked how they would vote if the election were held today: Mr. Bush is at 33 percent, Mr. Clinton at 30 percent, and Ross Perot, the all-but-declared independent candidate, is at 25 percent.
 
Improving Popularity
 Even more important to the Arkansas Governor is the improvement in voters' views of him personally over the last month, after a primary campaign that left his image in tatters. During the same period, Mr. Perot's image continued to decline, while Mr. Bush's ratings on job performance, economic stewardship and personal image remained remarkably weak for an incumbent President. 
 As a result, Mr. Clinton has enjoyed some pre-convention momentum and will avoid the nightmare that seemed possible just weeks ago, when many Democrats feared he would come limping into New York a stalled and distant third, turning the convention into a grim parody.
Democratic leaders spent the day trumpeting their unity, but there were still a few rough spots. Former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. kept Democrats guessing much of the day, despite pressure from party leaders and his own politically venerable family to join the unity tableau. And the Rev. Jesse Jackson continued to snipe at the Arkansas Governor, even though he had grudgingly endorsed him the day before.
 
A Glut of Fetes
 Nonetheless, the Democratic delegates who are to nominate Mr. Clinton on Wednesday night were far more engaged yesterday in parties than in feuds. The muggy midsummer heat did little to dampen the innumerable brunches, cocktail parties, lunches, dinners, river cruises and fund-raising events that sent nearly 5,000 delegates and alternates into the streets of New York. There were parties at Gracie Mansion, Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center and Central Park, to name a few; New Yorkers hustled to disprove the negative stereotypes and present themselves as happy and amiable hosts.
The quadrennial exercise of Democrats' trying to recapture the grandeur of their past was crystallized in one poignant fact: The most sought-after pass was for the party held at Gracie Mansion to honor Robert F. Kennedy.
 
Gore's Contribution
 The new nationwide telephone poll of 1,032 registered voters suggests that Mr. Clinton has profited from his selection of Senator Al Gore of Tennessee as his running mate, as well as the pre-convention hoopla: his standing in the three-way trial heat improved over the course of the poll, which was conducted Wednesday through Saturday and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
The poll also showed that Mr. Gore was beginning this campaign with a far more positive image than Vice President Quayle, although he is obviously much less known.
The Clinton forces say they hope to use the next four days to build on these gains and "re-introduce" the Governor to the American people.The theme of the convention is "Putting People First," an effort to find a fresh way to capitalize on a traditional Democratic advantage during an economic downturn. The most important story line, however, will be the profile of Bill Clinton that emerges by week's end.
If the Clinton strategists have their way, it will be an all-American tale of a poor but smart boy who rose from humble origins to a life in government aimed at "putting people first."
The counter-image is already coming from the Republican National Committee, which has set up shop in New York. The Republican chairman, Rich Bond, held a news conference yesterday in which one phrase was repeated over and over: "The failed Governor of a small state."
 
Quiet Day for Clinton
 The Governor from Arkansas spent a quiet day, continuing to work on his acceptance speech for Thursday night. With his wife, Hillary, and his daughter, Chelsea, he attended services at Calvary Baptist Church on West 57th Street, but left much of the public politics of the day to Mr. Gore.
He did talk by phone with Mr. Brown, an aide said. And party leaders said they remained hopeful that the former California Governor, who has seemed unwilling to wind down his anti-politics crusade, will return to the fold this week.
Mr. Gore, speaking to reporters at Nashville's airport before his flight to New York, asserted that the Republicans clearly intended to wage a negative campaign -- and tried to present the Democrats as above all that, more concerned with policy than politics as usual. "We want to do what is in the best interests of the country," he said.
But Gov. Ann W. Richards of Texas suggested on the CBS News program "Face the Nation" that the Democrats were not becoming pacifists in the political battle. "Al Gore may not be the one that does it," she said, "but I don't think that the Democrats are going to make the mistake that they made in the Dukakis-Bush race."
 
'A Lot More Scripting'
 The convention will be called to order in Madison Square Garden at 5 P.M. today. Ronald H. Brown, the Democratic Party chairman, said proudly that his party was attempting "a lot more scripting than we've done in the past." While the Republicans have excelled in recent years in turning their convention into a strictly controlled political commercial, Democratic conventions sometimes have the air of a family therapy session. This time, however, the Democrats resolved many of their conflicts in advance.
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, who will nominate Mr. Clinton on Wednesday night, devoted his day to an earnest defense of a man he has often clashed with in the past. "I think probably he will make the best candidate since Kennedy," Mr. Cuomo said on the Channel 2 program "Sunday Edition." He did, however, offer some advice on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" that might seem counter-intuitive, suggesting that Mr. Clinton present himself as someone willing to raise taxes.
Mr. Jackson, meanwhile, indicated on "Meet the Press" that he would not be a quiet foot soldier for Mr. Clinton. He complained that the Clinton campaign had sought to distance itself from core Democratic constituencies like organized labor, urban voters and his own political group, the Rainbow Coalition. "That push-off has insulted and infuriated a lot of people," Mr. Jackson said.
Mr. Jackson also took pains to defend Ross Perot, who sparked considerable outrage at Saturday's meeting of the N.A.A.C.P. when he twice used the phrase "your people" in singling out the problems of blacks. "That gaffe was not intentional or a politically motivated or racially calculated statement," said Mr. Jackson. "I have seen race-baiting, and that was not that."
Mr. Clinton, meanwhile, issued a statement hailing Mr. Jackson's endorsement and taking a slap at the Republicans: "The Reagan-Bush-Quayle Administration has deprived this country of any real investment in our people. The lack of leadership is appalling and the American people deserve better."
His statement, however, was silent on Ross Perot, and silence is expected to be the trend here. Many Democrats argue that their candidate has so far prospered by staying out of the Bush-Perot battle.
 
Strongly Competitive
 Poll ratings at this stage of the campaign can be ephemeral. Michael S. Dukakis left his convention in Atlanta with a 17-point lead, but it melted to 7 percentage points in two weeks, and then disappeared.
Still, the latest Times/CBS poll showed an extremely competitive race. Mr. Perot had slipped, and the remarkably positive image he had last spring is largely gone. He shares the situation of Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton in having more people view him negatively than positively.
The Dallas billionaire, who has come off a month of Republican attacks and intense press scrutiny, is now viewed favorably by 19 percent, and unfavorably by 27 percent. And many Democrats here predicted that Mr. Perot would suffer further damage in the aftermath of his speech at the N.A.A.C.P. convention this weekend.
Mr. Clinton, meanwhile, gained ground in his personal popularity during the same period. Those who viewed him positively rose to 20 percent, up from 16 percent in June. And those who viewed him negatively dropped to 31 percent, down from 40 percent in June. Mr. Bush's ratings were essentially unchanged since June, standing at 30 percent favorable, 43 percent unfavorable.
Still, Mr. Clinton has continuing weaknesses. Only 40 percent said he had strong qualities of leadership; 60 percent said that about Mr. Bush, and 45 percent about Mr. Perot. Only 32 percent said Mr. Clinton had good judgment under pressure, while 62 percent said that of Mr. Bush and 40 percent about Mr. Perot.
And the Democrat still has a problem with the "character issue," after a primary season in which he was repeatedly forced to deny accusations of avoiding the draft and infidelity. While only 11 percent of the voters say that assertions about Mr. Clinton's character will cause them to choose someone else, 41 percent said they thought it would bother other voters enough to make him lose the election.
Among his strengths were specificity: 49 percent said he had offered specific ideas to solve the problems facing the country, as against 34 percent for Mr. Bush and 30 percent for Mr. Perot.
And nearly three-fourths said Mr. Clinton cared about the "needs and problems" of people like themselves; 57 percent said that of Mr. Bush, and 59 percent of Mr. Perot.
The Democratic Party, in fact, was gaining ground on this front: 32 percent said the party favored the middle class, up from 22 percent who said that a year ago. In contrast, just 8 percent said the Republican Party favors the middle class, while 68 percent said it favored the rich.
The poll also showed that the Republicans, in the person of Mr. Bush, had lost their traditional advantage as the party more willing to hold the line on taxes. Seventy-seven percent said they thought Mr. Bush was likely to raise their taxes if he was re-elected, about the same as the 75 percent who predicted that of Mr. Clinton. Sixty-four percent said they thought Mr. Perot would do so.
 
Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton leaving the Calvary Baptist Church on West 57th Street yesterday after attending services with his family. Mr. Clinton spent the rest of the day preparing his acceptance speech. (Lee Romero/The New York Times)
 
Table: "The New York Times/CBS News Poll: Voters on the Candidates, Point by Point"
 
Clinton Advantages
 Say candidate cares a great deal or some about the needs and problems of people like themselves

 	 	Clinton	73%	Bush	57%	Perot	59%	 Say candidate has offered specific ideas to solve the important problems facing the country

 	 	Clinton	49	Bush	34	Perot	30	 Say candidate is telling them enough about where he stands on the issues to judge what he would do if elected in November

 	 	Clinton	48	Bush	38	Perot	19	
 
Bush Advantages
 Say candidate has good judgment under pressure

 	 	Clinton	32	Bush	62	Perot	40	 Say candidate has strong qualities of leadership

 	 	Clinton	40	Bush	60	Perot	45	 Say candidate shares the moral values most Americans try to live by

 	 	Clinton	55	Bush	72	Perot	57	
 
Perot Advantage
 Say candidate says what he thinks voters want to hear rather than what he really believes

 	 	Clinton	59	Bush	56	Perot	39	
 
Mutual Weakness
 Say candidate is likely to rase taxes if elected

 	 	Clinton	75	Bush	77	Perot	64	
 
(Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted July 8-11 with 1,032 registered voters.) (pg. B6)
 
Table: "The New York Times/CBS News Poll: The Democratic Delegates: Who Are They?"
 All figures in percentages. Figures not shown are "none," "other," "don't know" or "declined to answer." Superdelegates are members of Congress, Democratic National Committee members, governors and former elected officials. Pledged delegates are elected and appointed delegates who represent states or other jurisdictions. The 1992 and 1988 figures refer to all delegates.
 
Income

 	 	 	 	 	 	Less than	25,000 to	50,000 to	100,000	 	$25,000	49,000	99,999	or more	Super	5	12 	20 	61 	Pledged	8 	26 	40 	22 	1992	7 	24 	37 	29 	1988	6 	33 	40 	16	
 
Delegates to Previous Convention

 	 	 	 	Yes 	No 	Super	79 	20 	Pledged	46 	51 	1992	51 	45 	1988	38	62 	
 
Religion

 	 	 	 	 	Protestant	Catholic	Jewish	Super	49 	34 	9	Pledged	46 	29 	10	1992	47 	30 	10	1988	51 	30 	6	
 
Race

 	 	 	 	Black 	White 	Super	10 	85 	Pledged	17 	75 	1992	16 	77 	1988	21 	70 	
 
Party Activity

 	 	 	 	 	Work if 	 	Work 	candidates,	 	year-in,	issue 	 	year-out	matter 	Super	87 	11 	Pledged	65 	32 	1992	69 	29 	1988	74 	22 	
 
Education

 	 	 	 	 	 	High school	Some 	College	Graduate	 	or less	college	graduate	programs	Super	7 	16 	16 	62 	Pledged	9 	20 	21 	50 	1992	9 	19 	20 	52	1988	9 	18 	21 	52	
 
Sex

 	 	 	 	Male 	Female 	Super	70 	30 	Pledged	48 	52 	1992	52 	48 	1988	48 	52 	
 
Political Philosphy

 	 	 	 	 	 	Very 	Somewhat	 	 	 	liberal	liberal	Moderate	Conservative	Super	24 	17 	48 	6	Pledged	23 	26 	43	4	1992	23 	24 	44 	5	1988	15 	24 	50 	5	
 	 	 		Democratic Convention	 		Delegates	The Public*	
Question	Total	Super	Pledged	Dems.	All voters	 	 	 	 	 	 	Say Federal spending on education	 	 	 	 	 	should be increased 	87	88	87	75	67	 	 	 	 	 	 	Say we are spending too little	 	 	 	 	 	money on solving them problems	 	 	 	 	 	of big cities 	79	81	79	64	60	 	 	 	 	 	 	Say it is the responsibility of	 	 	 	 	 	the Government to guarantee	 	 	 	 	 	medical care for all the people	 	 	 	 	 	who don't have insurance 	91	88	92	82	75	 	 	 	 	 	 	Say abortion should be generally	 	 	 	 	 	available to those who want it,	 	 	 	 	 	rather than under strciter limits	 	 	 	 	 	then now or not permitted at all	78	75	78	46	43	 	 	 	 	 	 	Want the United States to give	 	 	 	 	 	economic aid to the former	 	 	 	 	 	Soviet Union 	72	80	71	48	52	
 
* Registered voters
 Figures for delegates to the 1992 Democratic National convention are based on a New York Times Poll of 1,091 delegates (out of 4,319), including 182 superdelegates and 909 pledged delegates, conducted by telephone June 18-July 2. Figures for delegates to the 1988 convention are based on a New York Times Poll. All other figures are based on polls conducted by The New York Times and CBS News. (pg. B6)
 
Graphs: "If the Election Were Today" shows The New York Times/CBS News Poll results if the vote were in a 3-way race (Bush, Clinton & Perot), and a 2-way race (Bush & Clinton) (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY CARNEGIE HALL CORP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (72%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEROT, ROSS; BROWN, JERRY (EDMUND G BROWN JR); JACKSON, JESSE L (REV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (78%); JERRY BROWN (78%); JESSE JACKSON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



417 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-9
 
SHOOTINGS JOLT JAPAN
An outbreak of shootings has stirred concern that Japan is assimilating the kind of violent lifestyle viewed as typical of American cities. A3
 
DOVISH CABINET FOR ISRAEL
Israel's incoming Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin, unveiled his Cabinet to a jubilant Labor Party conference. The new ministers are dovish on Middle East peace issues. A3
 

IN BOSNIA, A FAINT CRY OF 'BRAVO'
Penetrating a siege within a siege, United Nations relief trucks delivered food to Dobrinja, a devastated suburb of Sarajevo. Serbian attacks have turned the area into a ghetto of hunger and death. A6
 
NO ANCHOR FOR RUBLE SOON
A $6 billion Western fund to help stabilize the ruble will probably not be set up until early next year, an official of the International Monetary Fund said. A8
 
FOOTNOTES TO NAZI HISTORY
The publication of sections of the diaries of Josef Goebbels, Hitler's Propaganda Minister, has offered new details about the rivalries of Nazi leaders. A8
 
MEXICANS VOTE IN 2 KEY STATES
In a test of the ruling party's pledge to resist fraud, Mexicans voted in governor's races in Chihuahua, an economically vigorous state, and Michoacan, one of the poorest. A9
 
POPE IN HOSPITAL FOR TESTS
Startling an audience in St. Peter's Square, Pope John Paul II announced that he was entering a hospital for tests. His spokesman said he had an intestinal ailment that might require surgery. A8
 
National A10-12, D10
 
NOT JUST A JOKE ANYMORE
The Anita Hill-Clarence Thomas hearings last fall caused a profound change in the way many Americans view sexual harassment. The change is evident in the workplace, the military and in the sharp jump in sexual harassment complaints received by the Federal agency that handles them. A1
 
BRACING SOONER FOR THE BIG ONE
The twin earthquakes that struck Southern California on June 28 have left the San Andreas fault more dangerous, scientists said. The quakes significantly increased the likelihood that the "Big One" would occur sooner, not later, they said. A1
 
HOOKS BIDS N.A.A.C.P. FAREWELL
Benjamin Hooks ended 15 years as head of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People by calling on the President to aid the nation's cities and by defending his organization's record. A10
 
CONSEQUENCE OF ONE IRAQ MEMO
Frank Lemay was an anonymous Foreign Service economist until a Congressman disclosed a memo he wrote warning of evidence that Iraq had misused a United States farm-loan program to buy nuclear-related equipment. Since then Mr. Lemay has been pooh-poohed by the President himself on national television. A12
 
SPY MASTER AND AGENCY ON TRIAL
When Clair George begins his Iran-contra trial, the nature of the Central Intelligence Agency will be on trial as well. A10
 
The U.S. relaxed secrecy rules for juvenile arrest records. A11
 
The Convention B1-6
 
CONVENING TO THE SCRIPT
Democrats entered a carefully scripted national convention in New York eager to appear unified and fired by a new optimism about Governor Clinton's appeal. A1
 
HILLARY CLINTON'S MAKEOVER
Hillary Clinton says her mission as First Lady would be to be "a voice for children." The words reflect a image refocused from that of a hardheaded careerist to that of the gentle helpmate Americans deem more appropriate. B1
 
IN SEARCH OF THE BABY BOOM
As the first baby boomer ticket, Bill Clinton and Al Gore hope to capture the White House by projecting youth and empathy for the values and issues that matter to their generation. But experts warn that generational politics can be perilous. A1
 
BROWN STAYS HIS COURSE
Former Governor Brown continued to withhold endorsement of Governor Clinton for the Democratic Presidential nomination. B4
 
HOW 2 DELEGATES MADE IT
Neither the youngest nor the oldest member of the Montana delegation got to New York because they pulled strings or donated lots of money. They got here because they worked for it. B3
 
TV MAY PULL THE PLUG
Because of a rise in public boredom, future party conventions may not be broadcast live at all, network officials said. This could therefore be the last of the conventions as Americans have known them. B1
 
A DIZZYING SOCIAL WHIRL
What do delegates do at a convention without suspense? Leave the party for a party, at a rate of nearly 100 do's a day. B3
 
THE CITY AS STAR
A city of outsized problem and potential, a symbol of things both grand and grotesque, New York. And with that as background, the city itself takes its place as one of the supporting characters in the 1992 Democratic Convention that opens here tonight. B5
 
Of Double Bubba and the Big Bad Wolf. Convention diary. B1
 
Delegates filled New York's heart and its arteries. B3
 
Metro Digest B7
 
Business Digest D1
 
Sports C1-8
 
SOUTH AFRICANS HEAD TO OLYMPICS
The South African Olympic team is unknown, untested and unsure of itself after three decades of banishment from world competition. A1
 
Baseball: Kelly's few words and many victories. C1
 
Yanks lose third in a row. C6
Mets' offense oversleeps again. C6
 
Another problem for Vincent. C5
 
Blauser's homers lift Braves. C5
 
Cycling: Lino still has yellow jersey. C7
 
Column: Anderson on Nicklaus C3
 
Golf: Unknown wins U.S. Senior Open. C1
 
Arts/Entertainment C9-14
 
"Tosca" with technology. C9
 
AIDS in mainstream films. C9
 
Johnny Carson and NBC together again. C14
 
Music: Mostly Mozart Festival with Beethoven. C12
 
Dance: Mark Morris at Jacob's Pillow. C9
 
Dance in Review C10
 
Obituaries D11
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
When to beat up on political TV.
 
El Salvador's moment of truth.
 
A field guide to New Yorkers.
 
Topics: Mail tale.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: A decisive issue.
 
William Safire: Wildflower in N.Y.C.
 
Garry Trudeau: Tags.
 
Garrison Keillor: Enjoy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (92%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); MEXICO (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); HOLY SEE (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (77%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (52%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); MEXICO (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); HOLY SEE (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); GOVERNORS (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); ESPIONAGE (60%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (50%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



418 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Michigan's Singular Tax Is Studied as U.S. Model

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LANSING, Mich., July 8

 BODY:
A form of taxation in Michigan that is the only one of its type in America is the wave of the future, some politicians and economists say. Others, particularly thousands of small businesses, would like to wave it goodbye.
For the last 16 years, Michigan has departed from all its sister states by taxing businesses according to the volume of their business activity rather than their profits, meaning that businesses owe taxes even when they lose money. Michigan calls it the single business tax. 
 The Michigan tax embodies the principle of taxing consumption -- all the factors of production except for capital investment -- rather than incomes. For opponents, the taxing of money-losing businesses is only the most common complaint against Michigan's single business tax, the only value-added tax in the United States.
But the idea of taxing consumption, either through a valued-added tax or national sales tax, is emerging as an increasingly inviting model for other states and even for the Federal Government. A growing band of national politicians of both major parties see such a tax as one answer to the nation's low savings rate and lack of investment.
In essence, a value-added tax is a sales tax imposed on the difference between what a company pays for goods that go into a product and the value of the finished product when it is sold. If a company buys $600 worth of raw materials from other companies and produces something that sells for $1,000, for example, the added value is $400. If the value-added tax is 10 percent, the liability will be $40. Presumably, the tax will be passed along to consumers in the form of higher prices.
 
Questions of Fairness
 "Equity is in the eyes of the beholder," insists Douglas B. Roberts, Michigan's state treasurer and a staunch defender of the single business tax, which has been in place for a decade and a half. He wonders why it seems so unfair to tax a multibillion-dollar auto company that uses vast amounts of state services just because it happens to have a bad year for profits.
In Congress, there is now considerable ferment in favor of a value-added tax or some other sort of national sales tax. The notion has long been resisted by liberals as "regressive," because it would put a proportionately larger tax burden on poorer consumers who must spend much of their income and have little left over for saving or investing. And consumption taxes have been scorned by conservatives, who see them as a "money machine" for Big Government.
Such criticisms notwithstanding, Senate Finance Committee members John C. Danforth, a Missouri Republican, and David Boren, an Oklahoma Democrat, have formed an advisory group whose work is aimed at shifting policy toward taxing consumption. The second meeting is July 20.
Members of the group include officials from the Treasury, which did some perfunctory analysis of value-added taxes in 1984 and would be obliged to do more work on the idea under a bill pressed by Representative Robert E. Wise Jr., Democrat of West Virginia. In addition, Sam Gibbons, Democrat of Florida, a trade-oriented member of the House Ways and Means Committee, contends that for competitive reasons the United States must adopt a value-added tax.
 
U.S. Has Resisted the Trend
 A value-added tax can be regarded as the revolution in tax policy that has entirely bypassed the United States, with the exception of Michigan. All but five of the 25 industrialized countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development now have such a tax, with Japan adopting it in 1988 and Canada in 1990. Of the five holdouts, four have a national sales tax, making the United States the only O.E.C.D. nation with neither a value-added tax nor a national sales tax.
It was in 1976, after years of revenue gyrations and in the aftermath of an income-shrinking recession, that Michigan began its version of the value-added tax, one limited to business but given a broad base that included such traditionally small and unincorporated enterprises as law firms and accounting firms.
At a conference in Chicago sponsored by the National Tax Association, "I got to thinking this might be a good idea for a state," Robert J. Kleine, then director of the Michigan's Office of Revenue and Tax Analysis and now a private consultant, recalled the other day. Because the new levy was designed to supplant numerous others -- and because the term "value-added tax" had unfavorable connotations -- the name chosen for it was the single business tax.
 
Concessions and Revisions
 From the outset, the tax was a political lightning rod, supported initially by the 6,000-member Michigan Chamber of Commerce only after heated internal debate and sustained over the years by repeated modifications.
One largely successful effort was obtaining concessions for small business, many of which end up not even owing money but nevertheless find the paperwork onerous. They are now offered a choice between the single business tax and a 3 percent tax on profits. Another change was to limit the severity of the tax on labor-intensive businesses.
Value-added taxes take two basic forms. The most common is the transactional, or credit, value-added tax that is widely used in Europe. Each company in the production chain gets to apply a credit for the tax it pays on purchases against the tax it owes on sales.
The other form is the so-called operational valued-added tax, a one-shot calculation under which companies calculate their tax liability by subtracting outside purchases from sales. Or, as in Michigan, they may add the components of "value" -- wages, rent, interest and depreciation -- to Federal taxable income, the profit-based starting point for the calculation.
 
Noises From Detroit
 By treating capital investment favorably, Michigan's value-added tax is a levy on consumption as opposed to one on output or income.
While officials here express disappointment in how the "purity" of the single business tax has been eroded, most believe it will survive. This is despite noises from Detroit, currently awash in red ink, and elsewhere that the single business tax should be reviewed -- a not surprising attitude in hard times.
"We just thank our lucky stars we don't have a corporate income tax any more," Mr. Kleine said, "because we'd be refunding money to the Big Three for the next 10 years."
For one thing, contrary to one common fear, the original 2.35 percent statutory rate has never been raised, though Richard K. Studley the vice president for government relations of the Michigan Chamber of Commerce, frets about a constantly expanding base that rises automatically with pay increases, a major component. Mr. Kleine observes that the single business tax's inclusiveness, even with exemptions for groups like agriculture, means unified opposition to any rate-raising proposal.
This means that the single business tax has to some extent broken the traditional ratcheting-up of the size of government as the public sector expanded in good times and then relied on tax increases to sustain itself when hard times arrived.
 
Other States Study Michigan
 There is also the practical problem of a lack of suitable alternatives, with estimates ranging from 15 to 20 percent as the tax rate that might be necessary to raise the same amount of money through a traditional corporate income tax.
"Maybe this mongrel that we've developed is exactly what we ought to have," suggested H. Lynn Jondahl. A Democrat who heads the Taxation Committee of the Michigan House of Representatives, Mr. Jondahl says he initially had more reservations than enthusiasm for the single business tax.
Other states, including Texas and Florida, have sought advice from Michigan officials about adopting single business taxes of their own and are generally given an upbeat appraisal.
Some specialists also think the Michigan levy, compromised and complicated though it has become, might provide some kind of model for concerted action by cash-starved states. One is Alice Rivlin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office who, citing Michigan specifically, proposes a commonly collected and shared corporate income tax.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Douglas B. Roberts, Michigan's state treasurer, is a staunch defender of the state's single business tax, the only tax of its kind in the country. (pg. D1); Robert J. Kleine, above, is the former director of Michigan's Office of Revenue and Tax Analysis.; H. Lynn Jondahl, above left, is the chairman of the Taxation Committee of the Michigan House of Representatives. Richard K. Studley, left, is the vice president for government relations of the Michigan Chamber of Commerce. (pg. D2) (Photographs by Peter Yates for The New York Times)
; Graph: "Michigan's All-in-One Business Tax" shows amounts from receipts from single business tax from '77-'92. (Source: Michigan Department of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (98%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MICHIGAN UNITED STATES (98%); MICHIGAN, USA (98%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; VALUE-ADDED TAX TAXES & TAXATION (92%); VALUE ADDED TAX (91%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR DAN BOREN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



419 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Party Challenged in 2 Mexican States

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

DATELINE: CHIHUAHUA, Mexico, July 12

 BODY:
Mexicans in two politically crucial states chose their Governors today in voting that the opposition has called a test of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari's commitment to fair elections.
In Michoacan, where tensions were running high and the leftist Democratic Revolutionary Party faced the possibility of a devastating loss, its officials said the vote had been badly tainted. 
 "There have been a whole load of irregularities," the party's candidate, Cristobal Arias, said by telephone after the polls closed tonight. "All of the reports I have indicate that there were many incidents of provocation, many acts committed by people of the official side."
In contrast, Government and opposition officials in Chihuahua, a border state that is a stronghold of the conservative National Action Party, said the voting there had proceeded fairly smoothly. Reporting only minor incidents at the polls, National Action officials were predicting victory for their candidate, Francisco Barrio Terraza, as they announced early returns.
An outright opposition victory in either contest would be only the second since the Government founded its political party, now called the Insitutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, 63 years ago. While opposition complaints of fraud are the norm in Mexican elections, they could embarrass Mr. Salinas, who is to meet with President Bush in San Diego on Tuesday to discuss their final negotiations with Canada on a free trade agreement.
Chihuahua and Michoacan, while both unusually important for the strength of their political opposition, represent almost opposite poles of Mexican reality.
Chihuahua prides itself on both economic vigor and political independence, and it chose primarily between two former mayors of Ciudad Juarez -- Mr. Barrio and the PRI candidate, Jesus Macias -- whose policy views are not radically different.
Michoacan, one of the poorest of Mexico's 31 states, weighed Mr. Arias, a leftist firebrand who promises to help small farmers and the poor, against a wealthy PRI businessman, Eduardo Villasenor, who says he will help the state by stimulating investment. Opinion polls before the vote showed Mr. Arias trailing Mr.Villasenor by ratios of more than 2 to 1.
In their elections, however, the two states have shared some problems. In both, debates over policy and ideology have been overwhelmed by controversy over the vastly greater campaign resources of the governing party. And today, opposition officials in both states complained of systematic Government pressure on the voters.
Mr. Arias and other Democratic Revolutionary Party officials said the problems in Michoacan included last-minute changes to the voter rolls, the switching of locations for polling places in areas of opposition support, the expulsion of opposition poll watchers, the theft of several ballot boxes, and intimidation of voters by Government and PRI officials. The state police announced tonight that five members of the Democratic Revolutionary Party had been arrested for trying to destroy election materials in the town of Nueva Italia. The party said its people were arrested after they tried to stop members of the governing party from stealing ballot boxes.
Officials of the State Electoral Commission in Michoacan declined to comment on the accusations.

GRAPHIC: Map of Mexico showing location of Chihuahua.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: INSITUTIONAL REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (90%); DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (72%); NATIONAL ACTION PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSITUTIONAL REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (90%); DEMOCRATIC REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (72%); NATIONAL ACTION PARTY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; MICHOACAN STATE (MEXICO); CHIHUAHUA (MEXICO) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); ARRESTS (62%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



420 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Calls Back Legislative Leaders On Unsettled Issues

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has summoned state legislative leaders back to Albany on Thursday in hopes of reaching agreement on several measures left unresolved when the Legislature's session ended on July 3, a spokeswoman for the Governor said last night.
Governor Cuomo decided to call the meeting after talks between members of his staff and members of legislative staffs showed "significant progress" late last week, said the spokeswoman, Anne W. Crowley. 
 She said the Assembly Speaker, Saul Weprin, agreed to attend the meeting when Governor Cuomo invited him while they were at a party for the New York delegation to the Democratic National Convention last night. The Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, had not yet responded to an invitation to the meeting that Governor Cuomo left on his answering machine at home, she said.
 Because legislators settled on a budget on April 2, virtually on time for the first time in eight years, there had been hope that they would be free to address other issues.
But lawmakers ended the session still battling over two major pieces of legislation: an $800 million bond act, which Governor Cuomo had vigorously sought to create jobs as the showpiece of his plan to pull New York State out of recession, and a fiscal bailout for Nassau and Suffolk counties on Long Island, which the Republican-led state Senate wanted.
The Governor had strongly hinted that he would veto the bailout because he thought it was irresponsible, and in the end, amid much partisan bickering, neither measure passed.
 
Items Under Consideration
 Both measures would be dealt with on Thursday, along with a bill to give the Thruway Authority new power to oversee construction projects, and other legislation, Ms. Crowley said.
But she said that Governor Cuomo was awaiting a recommendation from his budget advisers as to whether the bailout plans were sound, and that he might not receive that recommendation by Thursday.
Ms. Crowley said that because the meeting would be held early on Thursday, Governor Cuomo would have time to fly to New York City to attend the closing of the Democratic convention, when Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas is scheduled to receive the nomination. But he might miss a reception or two, she said.
"The opportunity to get some good legislation like this passed would probably override that," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); VETO (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); BUDGETS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); BONDS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); JOB CREATION (67%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); BENNET, JAMES BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



421 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Ruble Support May Be Delayed to '93

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 12

 BODY:
A $6 billion fund to help stabilize the ruble will probably not be set up until early next year, several months later than originally planned, a senior official of the International Monetary Fund says.
Russian officials had hoped that the fund would be established this summer, saying that a stable ruble is needed as soon as possible to create an anchor for the Russian economy. 
 In what seems like a chicken-or-the-egg riddle, Russian officials are eager to have a ruble fund sooner rather than later to help attract foreign investment and restore badly needed confidence and order in their economy.
But I.M.F. officials say that before such a fund is set up, the Russians must re-establish faith and order in their economy so that people will have enough confidence in the ruble that it might have a chance of being sought after and becoming stable.
 
Budgets and Inflation
 The I.M.F. official said Russia still faced several stiff challenges before the $6 billion fund could be established: bringing its budget deficit and inflation rate down sharply, and sorting out which of the former Soviet republics plan to continue using the ruble. If these conditions are not met by early next year, the official indicated, the stabilization fund might be further delayed.
Disclosing details of Russia's new agreement with the monetary fund, the official said Moscow had agreed to reduce its inflation rate to less than 10 percent a month from about 15 percent and to reduce its deficit to 5 percent of the gross domestic product from about 17 percent by the end of the year.
That would be smaller, in relative terms, than the United States deficit, which is expected to be 6.3 percent of the gross domestic product this fiscal year.
Russian officials, facing domestic pressure against tough economic decisions, say they will not be able to cut their deficit by the promised amount unless creditors allow Russia to defer interest payments on its more than $70 billion in foreign debt.
The I.M.F.'s managing director, Michel Camdessus, flew to Moscow last weekend to help hammer out an agreement in time for the economic summit meeting in Munich. Under that accord, Moscow will receive a $1 billion loan from the fund in exchange for agreeing to undertake reforms.
 
Rebuilding Currency Stocks
 Russia is expected to receive that $1 billion after the I.M.F.'s executive board votes early next month. Fund officials said Russia would probably use the money to build up its depleted hard-currency reserves.
A stabilization fund would, in effect, back the ruble with foreign money. Russia could use the $6 billion to buy rubles in order to prop up the nation's currency if it suffered a crisis of confidence and people rushed to sell their rubles in favor of foreign currencies. In theory, if people know that there is a fund to defend the ruble's value, they will be in less of a rush to sell out of fear that their rubles are going to plunge in value.
Mr. Camdessus and other fund officials have talked about a three-phase approach for Russian aid. In the next phase, Russia would sign another accord, in which it would qualify for $3 billion more in I.M.F. loans over the next year for agreeing to more comprehensive and stricter reforms, like setting a low ceiling on money-supply growth.
The monetary fund official said he hoped to complete that agreement in October.
The third phase would involve starting the $6 billion ruble fund, which would be administered by the I.M.F. and financed by the United States and 10 other major industrial nations. The ruble fund and the I.M.F. loans are all part of a $24 billion aid package to Russia that the Group of Seven, an alignment of leading industrial nations, unveiled in April.
 
Neighbors Keep Printing Money
 The I.M.F. official, who spoke Friday on the condition that his remarks not be released until Monday, said the greater-than-expected complications in defining a ruble zone -- all the former Soviet republics that will use the ruble -- and making it work smoothly were the main reasons for the projected delay in establishing the fund. Russian officials complain that other republics' continuing to print rubles is making it harder for them to reduce inflation.
The official, who insisted on anonymity, said another reason for the delay was that Russia let its budget deficit and inflation rate soar in the second quarter after having slashed them in the first quarter.
"When the macro-economic programs are really strong," he said, "and the hand of management does not tremble, then a stabilization fund can be put into place."
Jeffrey Sachs, a Harvard economics professor who has advised Russia on its reforms, said the I.M.F. was partly to blame for the delay in setting up the ruble-stabilization fund. He asserted that the I.M.F. staff had dragged out negotiations for an agreement by pressing Russia to take overly severe measures. He also said that the monetary fund had not done enough to help those republics so inclined to set up their own currencies and thus speed their exit from the ruble zone.
I.M.F. officials say it would be foolish to establish a fund to stabilize -- and defend -- the ruble before Moscow cuts inflation and restores confidence in the currency so that its exchange rate is no longer volatile. On July 1, the Russian Government consolidated the several different ruble exchange rates into one, and then let the ruble float against other currencies.
The Russian currency is trading at about 130 rubles to the dollar, far weaker than the Government's goal of 80 to the dollar.
"A stabilization fund that doesn't have an object to be stabilized isn't really going to help," said Richard Ericson, an economist at the Harriman Institute of Columbia University. "There would be an immediate $6 billion transfer to Russia if you don't have the ruble functioning as a real money."
Professor Sachs said he feared that the I.M.F., reluctant to see the ruble fund tapped, was asking Moscow to do so much to steady its currency that by that time, a stabilization fund would be unnecessary.
I.M.F. officials say they will work hard this summer to establish rules for republics staying in the ruble zone and to help republics so inclined to set up their own currencies. Estonia has already created its own money, and I.M.F. officials say Latvia, Lithuania and Ukraine plan to do so in the near future. Belarus, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan plan to continue using the ruble, at least for the short term, and I.M.F. officials say most of the other republics will probably do likewise.
"It's still a little bit of a fluid situation," said the monetary fund official, who added that setting up one's own currency was a "very hard job."
Fund officials said it remained unclear how monetary policy would be determined in the new ruble zone: whether Russia, the predominant economic power among the republics, would call all the shots, or whether the others would have a vote on monetary policy.
Mr. Sachs said the main thing was that the republics embrace a single monetary policy.
Recognizing that Russia will be the dominant voice in monetary policy, the I.M.F. official said, "the center has to be in a position to hear well and take on board the specific problems of each of the other countries."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COMMONWEALTH OF INDEPENDENT STATES RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CURRENCY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); TRENDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); INWARD INVESTMENT (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



422 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Police Pact For Nassau Is Criticized

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MINEOLA, L.I., July 12

 BODY:
A proposed police union contract has touched off a debate between political and business leaders over whether Nassau County, broke and in the midst of a financial crisis, can afford it. The contract is expected to set a standard for other municipal employee unions in the New York metropolitan area.
In New York City, the police have for decades sought parity with their colleagues on Long Island and the contract could be used as a guide for negotiations between the Dinkins administration and the city's police union. The police unions on Long Island have traditionally been powerful political forces in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, and have effectively raised their salaries to among the highest in the country. 
 The proposed four-year contract in Nassau would increase the average police officer's salary by 15 percent, to more than $59,000. It also includes several concessions by the police union, which Nassau and Suffolk may seek from their other unions. Among the concessions are a freeze on base wages in the first year, the deferral of some overtime and regular pay, and lower wages and more workdays for recruits.
 
Vote on July 20
 After months of delay and political posturing, the pact was quietly placed on the Nassau County Board of Supervisors' agenda late last week for a final vote on July 20.
The Nassau County Executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, who negotiated the contract with Gary DelaRaba, president of the Nassau Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, has praised the pact as a way to ease Nassau's budget problem. He says it would cost the county little during the first two years. Mr. DelaRaba calls it "a fair deal."
However, the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business organization, says the pact is too rich in the midst of a recession. It contends that the contract would increase the average salary of Nassau's 1,800 police officers by about 21 percent during the four years.
"Our approach is not to begrudge public safety officers fair compensation," said James L. Larocca, president of the association. "Our direction really comes from a concern about what we can afford."
 
Seeking State Approval
 Nassau's $1.8 billion budget is currently running a $153 million deficit. To fill the gap, Mr. Gulotta, a Republican who is expected to seek re-election next year, is seeking state approval to borrow $70 million and increase the county's mortgage recording tax by 1 percent. But the Democratic leadership in Albany has refused to go along unless Nassau agrees to a financial oversight board.
Critics of the proposed police pact argue that it is the type of deal an oversight board might easily reject because Nassau's financial crisis has forced the county to lay off 2,300 workers, none of them police officers, and sharply cut back services in all departments, including health care at the Nassau County Medical Center.
"We recognize the county is in a financial bind, and we're giving up a lot in the first two years to help out," Mr. DelaRaba said. He estimated that the four-year contact would cost the county $2 million.
Bruce Nyman, a Democrat and Supervisor of the City of Long Beach, said he had decided to vote against the contract when it came up for a final debate and vote.
"No public employee, whether a politician, policeman or parks department worker, should get a raise until the county's fiscal crisis is resolved," he said.
Another Democrat, Benjamin Zwirn, Supervisor of the Town of North Hempstead, said he planned to support the contract, "despite some reservations."
"My determination is that it's worth it to the taxpayers in the long run," Mr. Zwirn said. "The P.B.A. is entitled to a vote on the pact and there is no reason to delay it." The motion to put the issue on next Monday's agenda was made by Mr. Zwirn and seconded by Mr. Nyman.
The outcome will be closely watched by the Nassau Civil Service Employees Association, the largest union in the county, whose contract expires on Dec. 31. In Suffolk County, which is also dealing with a record budget deficit, nine union contracts expired last year, including that of the Suffolk P.B.A. All are in the midst of negotiations.
 
Suffolk Proposes 10% Cut
 In Suffolk, county officials have proposed a 10 percent across-the board pay cut for employees, including police officers, to help close its nearly $50 million budget gap. As a result, several hundred Suffolk police officers with 20 or more years of service, several times the usual number, have filed for retirement, concerned that shrinking wages and benefits may affect their pension income. Their pension is based on one-half of their salary during their final year on the job or one half their average income in the final three years, whichever is higher.
A Nassau police officer now earns $49,124 after six years on the job. He would earn $59,522 at the end of the proposed contract. That is significantly higher than the $50,014 earned by his counterpart in Suffolk and $41,000 in New York City, where the police contract expired Dec. 30, 1991. The city is currently negotiating with most of its major unions, which are working without contracts and have not had raises in more than a year.
The Nassau police have been working without a contract since Dec. 31. Under the new pact, salaries would increase by 4.75 percent in 1993 and 1994 and by 5.5 percent in 1995. The contract would also increase the number of years needed to reach top salary from six to eight.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NASSAU COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; CONTRACTS; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OVERTIME (77%); CITIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



423 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Spirited Farewell: Benjamin Hooks Chides Bush and Defends N.A.A.C.P.

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, July 12

 BODY:
Closing out 15 years as head of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, Benjamin L. Hooks called on President Bush today to form a new national commission like the Kerner Commission to address the needs of the nation's cities, called for more black self-help programs and offered an enthusiastic argument in favor of N.A.A.C.P.'s continued relevance and its accomplishments.
Presiding for the last time over the annual convention of the nation's largest civil rights organization, Mr. Hooks, at a news conference this morning and in remarks delivered tonight, offered a spirited response to questions about the effectiveness and relevance of the organization. 
 The 67-year-old director also offered an enthusiastic appraisal of the Democratic Presidential ticket and, in blunt criticism of the Republican Party, said his pride in his term in office was tempered by frustration over the environment in which he served.
"I've had the misfortune of serving eight years under Reagan and three under Bush," said Mr. Hooks, who succeeded Roy Wilkins as N.A.A.C.P. director and who announced in February that he would retire next year. "It makes a great deal of difference about your expectations. We've had to get rid of a lot of programs we had hoped for, so we could fight to save what we already had."
 
Defending Record
 Mr. Hooks, an ordained minister who combines an oratorical style that comes out of the black church with a background in law and business, returned to his home state for his final N.A.A.C.P. national convention. At turns fiesty and philosophical today, Mr. Hooks said his main goal at the official opening of the annual convention was to defend the association against accusations that it had slipped from the forefront of the drive for black equality.
In a 41-page report entitled "Let The Record Show," the organization listed a long string of achievements over the last 15 years in areas, including legislation, legal challenges, direct action like demonstrations, cultural and educational programs and economic programs. In his remarks, Mr. Hooks, who remains extremely popular with most of the association's membership, dismissed criticisms that the organization had somehow lost its edge.
"Despite what is said about the 'old fogeyism' of the association, or about its irrelevance, the N.A.A.C.P. remains the undisputed leader and major force in the civil rights arena," he said. "Even our critics acknowledge that. I'm proud of what we have managed to achieve over 15 years. These have not been the years the locusts have eaten."
In the last year, the association's board has been plagued by a leadership dispute between supporters of Mr. Hooks and of Dr. William F. Gibson, the organization's chairman. In February, the fighting boiled over when several board members, who were in Mr. Hook's camp, left the board after a dispute about limiting the terms of board members and officers.
At his news conference this morning, Mr. Hooks declined to single out specific achievements, saying instead that in areas across the political spectrum the N.A.A.C.P.'s achievements cut to the heart of the issues facing American blacks.
But in his remarks and in the report, achievements cited include civil rights legislation like the 1982 Voting Rights Act Extension and the 1991 Civil Rights Act and numerous legal challenges in areas like hiring and discrimination in housing.
 
Range of Activities
 Mr. Hooks said educational programs for black youths, conferences on issues like the black family and social services, and "fair share" programs to increase minority hiring at corporations reflected the broad range of the association's activities.
He blamed critics and overly hostile news media, and a naivete about the pace of progress for the issues raised about the organization.
Pointing to civil and ethnic strife around the world, particularly in what used to be the Soviet Union, he said Americans may be unduly optimistic how quickly the ills built up over three centuries can be cured.
"I'm not quite sure why we've got this dream and concept that in 10 years all our problems can be solved." He said.
In fact, he said Americans tended to overlook how much progress blacks have made since the beginning of the civil rights movement. He said 70 percent of blacks lived above the poverty level and 30 percent lived below it, the opposite for the figures 30 years ago.
 
Cities 'Down the Drain'
 On the other hand, looking at the problems of the nation's cities and its poor, he acknowledged a crisis the N.A.A.C.P. has been unable to ward off.
"Our cities are going down the drain," he said.
He continued: "I wish I'd been able to work at a different time with a different set of expectations. That's my greatest disappointment.
Mr. Hooks said reports of negative reactions Saturday to Ross Perot's appearance at the conference were "blown out of proportion." He said that Mr. Perot's wording was unfortunate when he referred to blacks as "you people" but that Mr. Perot clearly meant no offense.
But he also said Mr. Perot was "very long on the definition of the problems and very short on the solutions."
 
Praise for Democrats
 He offered warm praise for the Democratic ticket and predicted it would achieve the historic level of acceptance blacks have given Democratic Presidential tickets in the past.
He said having two Southerners sensitive to civil rights issues and familiar with black concerns would prove extremely attractive to black voters. He described Gov. Bill Clinton and Senator Al Gore as typical of Southerners changed by the civil rights era "who've hunted and fished with black people, who've lived with them, been in their country stores, who understand, who eat the same corn bread."
"Clinton and Gore make a very attractive ticket," he said.
Mr. Hooks, who does not yet have a successor, continues in his job until his retirement next year and is likely to have other valedictory moments. He said he had received numerous job inquiries but had no firm plans other than to stay active in civil rights and religious activities.
And, in a joking reference to what he feels is an inability to get the N.A.A.C.P. message across, he said he might move into the media.
"I'm thinking of buying a newspaper," he said. "If I could just for one year say what I wanted to say."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Benjamin L. Hooks at a news conference yesterday in Nashville, where he presided over his last annual convention as executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Benjamin Lawson Hooks"
 Born: Jan. 23, 1925, Memphis
 Home: Baltimore
 Education: B.A., Howard University, 1944; J.D., DePaul University, 1948
 Career Highlights: Individual law practice in memphis, 1949-65; co-founder and officer, Mutual Federal Savings & Loan Association, Memphis, 1955-69; ordained to ministry in Baptist Church, 1956; pastor in Memphis andDetroit, 1956-72; criminal court judge, Shelby County, Tenn., 1966-68; member Federal Communications Commission, 1972-78; executive director, N.A.A.C.P., 1977-present.
 Interests: Reading, traveling and religious music.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (59%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (59%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (59%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); DEPAUL UNIVERSITY (59%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; FORECASTS US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (69%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; HOOKS, BENJAMIN L JR; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



424 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
SUSPECT ARRESTED IN ROBBERY OF PRIESTS 
A New York man considered a suspect in more than 50 armed robberies in Queens and Nassau County, including the robbery of four priests Friday night, was arrested while walking through an apartment complex in Texas, the police said. Nicknamed the driveway bandit, the suspect usually approached his victims in their driveways and stole their valuables, even their cars, at gunpoint. But the suspect's lawyer said yesterday that he had talked with him by phone from Texas on Friday, hours before the priests were robbed near St. John's University. B9.
 
GAY POLICE STRUGGLE IN TWO WORLDS
In New York City, to be gay and to be a police officer is to struggle as an outsider against myths and misconceptions not only in the Police Department, one of New York's most macho enclaves, but also in gay organizations. Gay officers have been ridiculed and ostracized by their colleagues, barraged by hostility and at times have even had their cars and personal lockers vandalized. And they have also been regarded with suspicion by gays who are not officers. Faced with such hurdles, many men and women have never complained about harassment and few are open about being gay. B9.

A CLINTON-CUOMO TICKET: WHAT IF?
Would Mr. Clinton have been well-served with Mario Cuomo as his running mate? While Mr. Cuomo would have infused the ticket with electricity, it might have short-circuited at times, if his experience as lieutenant governor is any guide. And a Clinton-Cuomo ticket might have been encumbered by New York political baggage, and by the two governors' shortage of Washington and foreign expertise. Metro Matters, B9.
 
Convention coverage, B1-B6.

REGION
 
WORST STILL TO COME FOR NEW YORK ECONOMY
While the latest job figures are raising the prospect of a "triple dip" recession for the rest of the nation, economists say that the New York region has yet to emerge from the first phase of the downturn, and that the continuing loss of service jobs makes prospects for recovery here even bleaker. Across New York, Connecticut and New Jersey, the businesses that fueled the region's growth do not appear to have hit bottom. Advertising agencies, management consulting concerns and public relations companies are carving deeply into their employment, and architecture firms and real-estate brokerage houses are reeling under their worst financial losses in decades. B13.
 
AGAINST ODDS, LITTLE MUSEUM MAKES GOOD
Small art museums in small cities have always had to struggle against obscurity, and recent cuts in both public and private grants have hit them particularly hard. But the New Britain Museum of American Art is quietly thriving, and its low-key success is illustrated by a bequest it received last month of 26 works by Edward Hopper, George Tooker and 10 other early-20th-century Realist artists. The bequest, estimated to be worth several million dollars, highlights the museum's dual identity as an institution with little visibility that operates on a shoestring, but is also regarded as having one of the country's finest collections of American art. New Britain Journal, B13.

POLICE PRESENCE FOR BLACKS AT BEACH
Four weeks after a weekend beach party in Belmar, N.J., ended in a disturbance that left about 30 people injured, a large contingent of police officers turned out today to monitor a picnic here organized by black fraternities and sororities, prompting resentment and complaints from many of the youths. About 70 police officers from several surrounding towns arrived in Belmar in midmorning and most spent the afternoon, nightsticks at their sides, patrolling the ocean front boardwalk in groups of four. The afternoon passed without incident, but Belmar residents remained jittery over the street disorders that erupted after a music concert on the beach here on June 14. While the crowd on that day was racially mixed, many white residents and black visitors said the fighting quickly became roving racial battles. B13.
Governor Cuomo has summoned legislative leaders back to Albany. B11.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (57%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (57%); ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ROBBERY (91%); ARRESTS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); VANDALISM (73%); LAYOFFS (67%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



425 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Is Conagra Overdoing Its Healthy Choices?

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
Just three years after introducing its first Healthy Choice product -- with reduced levels of fat and salt -- Conagra Inc. expects sales to reach $1 billion for its current fiscal year, which ends next May.
But some food industry experts believe Conagra is jeopardizing the success of Healthy Choice by trying to do too much too quickly -- blanketing supermarkets with a sweeping line of soups, desserts, pizza and more. 
 For one thing, these experts say, Healthy Choice's main frozen dinner business has stumbled. And that makes it even more difficult to expand a single brand name throughout the entire supermarket. When sales of Weight Watchers dinners fell in the 1980's, for example, Weight Watchers desserts and other products also fared poorly.
 
100 New Products in a Year
 "The crack in the foundation is already apparent," said Gary Stibel, president of the New England Consulting Group in Westport, Conn. "They are in danger. One must question whether they are trying to do too much."
In the last year, Conagra has introduced 100 Healthy Choice products, bringing the total to 188. Because of heavy spending on product development and advertising, most of the products are not profitable.
Now, sales of Conagra's frozen dinners are declining, victims of a bruising price war. For the 13 weeks ended in June 1992, Healthy Choice frozen dinner and entrees sales dropped by more than 12 percent, according to Nielsen Marketing Research. Sales at Stouffer, which aggressively cut prices, increased 16 percent in the same period.
Last week, Conagra, based in Omaha, began telling grocers to clear space on their shelves for its push into the cheese business -- a $5 billion-a-year market. By the fall, Conagra plans to have 30 varieties of fat-free Healthy Choice cheeses, going to head to head with Kraft General Foods and Borden Inc.
This is just the latest round of direct competition with other huge food companies. Earlier this year, Healthy Choice aimed a line of low-fat deli meats at Oscar Mayer, a Kraft subsidiary. And last fall, Conagra introduced a line of ready-to-serve soups that competed with the Campbell Soup Company.
 
'A Loser's Game'
 "To take on Oscar Mayer in meats, Kraft in cheeses and Campbell's in soup -- to me, it's a loser's game," said John M. McMillin, a food analyst with Prudential Securities. "You have to ask yourself, Is there an economic benefit to this? Are they left with 8 percent shares of seven different categories?"
Conagra executives say each product adds strength to the Healthy Choice juggernaut. "There is safety in numbers," said Steve Hughes, executive vice president of Healthy Choice. And by moving fast, he said, Conagra could be the first big company with a line of healthy products in different categories. But competitors have the same idea in mind. In fact, last fall Campbell's new healthy soups and the Healthy Choice soups hit supermarkets on virtually the same day in September.
While Healthy Choice is a relatively small part of Conagra, the parent company is indeed a juggernaut, with annual revenues of $19.5 billion and operations "across the food chain," with huge meat, poultry and grain and flour operations.
For the year ended May 26, 1991, Conagra earned $311 million, or $2.13 a share, on sales of $19.5 billion. Final results for the most recent fiscal year have not been released, but nine-month sales were up 3 percent and profits 16 percent.
 
Need to Move Quickly
 Conagra also feels that it must move quickly because each niche has "a fairly narrow window," Mr. Hughes said.
Competitors, however, contend that the window has already been slammed shut.
"In the cheese business, Conagra does not bring anything new," said Mitch Weinick, a senior group vice president for Borden.
Borden, based in New York, recently introduced a line of fat-free single-slice cheeses.
And Kraft is planning one of its biggest product introductions in years, a 22-item line of low-fat cheeses called Healthy Favorites. Kraft's Oscar Mayer division also has a line of Healthy Favorites low-fat lunch meats.
"Conagra is really going to get its nose clipped here," said Max Busetti, editor of The Food Industry Newsletter in Alexandria, Va. "Kraft has let it be known that it will not lose any more market share."
And Healthy Choice has not been successful in each aisle it has tried. A low-fat ground beef and an ice-cream-like frozen dairy dessert have not done well.
Mr. Hughes said that Conagra had never had an ice-cream-type product before and that there had been some problems figuring out how to keep grocers' freezers stocked with the best-selling flavors.
And the low-fat ground beef had distribution problems, he said.
Yet some new lines have done well. Healthy Choice soups have been successful, as have the meats and the spaghetti sauce, which competes with Ragu and other brands.
At Stouffer, which battles Conagra in the mainstream dinner category, the feeling is that Healthy Choice has become a less-focused competitor.
 
A Warning About Focus
 "It's either lack of focus or neglect," said Edward A. Marra, senior vice president of marketing for the Stouffer Foods Corporation, a Nestle subsidiary based in Solon, Ohio. "When you are trying to build a skyscraper, you have to have a solid foundation," he said.
And Jack Trout, of Trout & Reis, a marketing consulting firm in Greenwich, Conn., said: "The winner in marketing these days is the specialist. You become everything for everybody, and that is the kiss of death."
Mr. Hughes of Conagra said that because of the company's huge size, the different Healthy Choice businesses were being run by separate Conagra divisions. Armour Swift-Eckrich, for instance, is running the Healthy Choice meat business, while the Beatrice Cheese Company is handling the cheese.
"We can move fast and move focused and not overtax the resources of any one group," he said.
In fact, Mr. Hughes, said, there are are many more Healthy Choice products to come. In addition to cheese, the company is broadening its line of ready-to-serve soups and there are rumors that Conagra plans to take on Campbell's in the larger condensed-soup business.
Some food analysts also believe that Healthy Choice may introduce a line of salad dressings.t
But Mr. Trout is not convinced.
"Somebody should say 'Let's back off here,' " he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kaethe Gentile, an assembly line worker at Conagra's plant in Waukesha, Wis., inspecting packages of Healthy Choice cheese slices. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Stretching Healthy Choice"
 
Conagra's Healthy Choice line of food products has grown from a selection of frozen dinners three years ago to include 188 items that compete with some of the largest food companies in their core businesses. Conagra expects to sell $1 billion worth of Healthy Choice products in its current fiscal year, which ends May 31, 1993.
 
Table: "Stretching Healthy Choice"
 

	CHEESES	COLD CUTS	FROZEN DINNERS	SOUPS	Introduced	June 1992*	January 1992	1989	September 1991	Main Competitor	Borden; Kraft-	Oscar Meyer	Stouffer's	Campbell Soup		General Foods	 	 	 	Total market size+	$5.1 billion	$2.6 billion	$3.7 billion	$2.5 billion	
* In stores by the fall.
+ 1991 figures.
 
(Sources: Conagra; I.R.I. (market figures) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (95%); CPB (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (95%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (95%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (95%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (95%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (95%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (84%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (84%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); NEBRASKA, USA (58%); NORTHEAST USA (56%); 

CITY: OMAHA, NE, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: CONAGRA INC CONAGRA FOODS INC (95%); CAMPBELL SOUP CO (84%); NIELSEN MARKETING RESEARCH AS (54%); BORDEN INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONAGRA INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); NEBRASKA, USA (58%); NORTHEAST USA (56%); OMAHA, NE, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES FROZEN FOODS (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (90%); DIETING (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FROZEN FOODS MFG (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (89%); CHEESE (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); NUTRITION (78%); MEATS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); CONTUSIONS (70%); CHEESE MFG (68%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN CONAGRA FOODS INC (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



426 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Service Industry Founders In Unrelenting Recession

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
While the latest job figures are raising the prospect of a "triple dip" recession for the rest of the nation, economists say that the New York region has yet to emerge from the first phase of the downturn, and that the continuing loss of service jobs makes prospects for recovery here even bleaker.
Across New York, Connecticut and New Jersey, the businesses that fueled the region's growth do not appear to have hit bottom. Law and accounting firms are laying off junior and senior executives alike. Advertising agencies, management consulting concerns and public relations companies are carving deeply into their employment, and architecture firms and real-estate brokerage houses are reeling under their worst financial losses in decades. 
 "New York is at the center of the storm," said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, New York Regional Commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, which reported that national unemployment jumped three-tenths of a percentage point in June, to 7.8 percent, and that joblessness was far more acute in the New York region.
"This is not just another dip," he added. "It's a story of ongoing decline."
 
'Unprecedented Change'
 Economists and business executives say the region's recession is being prolonged by the very same industries that have proved resilient to previous downturns, and made New York and its suburbs a showplace in the 1980's when business and professional services were thought to be replacing manufacturing as the key to the nation's economic growth.
"Service companies have awakened to an unprecedented period of structural change and competitive forces," said Stephen S. Roach, senior economist for Morgan Stanley.
To be sure, experts have long described the nation's current recession as one affecting service industries more than previous downturns. But the extent of the damage, a growing consensus that it will be prolonged or permanent, and its brutal impact on those highly paid service professionals in the New York region are proving worse than anticipated.
The New York region has always been a center of law, financial consulting and other service professions. But in the robust 1980's, the region's manufacturing base declined and its core of corporate headquarters and other centers of international business decision-making attained a more dominant place in its economy.
"Regions that depend on services are going to have to find alternatives," Mr. Roach said, "and none is more dependent than New York."
Nationally, the jump was attributed to a host of problems, including a downturn in consumer spending and home building, and economists have engaged in a fervent debate -- made no less urgent by election-year politics -- that the nation, which began a slow economic recovery late last year, may now be dipping back into recession.
 
Unemployment Jumps
 But for New York City and its suburbs, any hopes that a belated recovery was at hand were dashed by the same Federal report on June employment. It said the New York City unemployment rate jumped a full percentage point to 11.5 percent; the rate in New York State leaped to 9.2 percent from 7.9 percent; and the rate in New Jersey increased to 9.2 percent from 9 percent. June figures are not yet available for Connecticut.
Employment cuts in the service industries "have thrown a very painful wrench" into the region's prospects for a recovery soon, Mr. Ehrenhalt said.
The fallout is palpable among many of the region's professionals.
At the New York City Bar Association, monthly "emotional support" meetings, offering guidance from a psychologist, have been attracting 60 to 100 lawyers, most of whom have lost their jobs. Other support groups have been organized to counsel Bar Association members on resume writing and other job-hunting skills.
Lawyers who have attended say that, for the first time in any of their memories, partners at New York area firms are being forced out, even if that means that the ownership interests that they have acquired have to be purchased from them. Layoffs among associates are far more commonplace, they said, and a new term in the legal profession -- "portable business" -- is being invoked frequently by major firms to make clear that they expect job candidates to bring in bill-paying clients, as well as their legal skills.
 
Public Relations Firms Hit
 "We are dealing with lawyers who worked in banking, real estate, mergers and acquisitions, across the board," said Madeline Stoller, chairman of the Bar Association committee that is conducting the support groups.
Also hit hard by the recession is public relations, which grew rapidly during the free-spending, image-conscious 1980's. Over the last two years, the number of employees of New York-area public relations companies has been cut by at least 10 percent, said Howard J. Rubenstein, owner of Howard J. Rubenstein Associates, one of the largest, with 128 employees.
The problem, he said, is that most of the clients of public relations firms are the same professional service executives that are themselves struggling with layoffs and shrinking profits, adding that the only area of growth for public relations practitioners now is in "crisis management."
"We are handling a lot of economic collapse," Mr. Rubenstein said.
To be sure, business and professional service companies are not the only only ones that continue to feel the bite of the region's long recession. One industry decimated by the slump has been retail sales, in which a string of department-store closings in New York City and the suburbs have prompted huge employment cuts.
 
Manufacturing Shrinks
 Manufacturing, a weak link in the regional economy for decades, has continued to shrink. The fallout was illustrated Friday when Stroehmann Bakeries closed its Taystee Bakery plant in Flushing, Queens.
Government studies show that manufacturing employment in New York City declined to slightly below 300,000 jobs in 1991 for the first time since World War II, with unremitting losses that totaled over 200,000 jobs since 1979.
Amid the bleak government data, the region shows some glimmers of economic hope. Wall Street, after 18 months of surging profits and stock trading volume, appears to have ended a deep wave of job cuts, although new hiring is slow and anemic.
With the Democratic National Convention convening in Manhattan this week, and with the city still basking in the success of its Op Sail extravaganza, hotels, restaurants and other businesses that depend on tourism promise improved earnings, at least for the summer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SERVICE INDUSTRIES; FORECASTS LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (70%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); CITIES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



427 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: NEW BRITAIN JOURNAL;
A Museum of American Art That Quietly Thrives

BYLINE: By ANDREW L. YARROW

DATELINE: NEW BRITAIN, Conn.

 BODY:
Small American art museums in small American cities have always had to struggle against obscurity, and recent cuts in both public and private grants have hit them particularly hard.
Against this backdrop, it might seem surprising that such a museum could quietly thrive and grow, particularly in a New England industrial town whose glory days are decades past. But that is what is happening at the New Britain Museum of American Art, and its low-key success is illustrated by a bequest it received last month of 26 works by Edward Hopper, George Tooker and 10 other early-20th-century Realist artists. 
 The bequest -- by Olga Knoepke, a collector in Newtown, Conn. -- bolsters the 89-year-old museum's already strong collection of more than 6,000 works and is a testament to its director, Daniel C. DuBois, whose casual conversations about art with Ms. Knoepke in the years before her death led to the gift.
The significance of Ms. Knoepke's bequest, estimated to be worth several million dollars, highlights the museum's dual identity as an institution with little visibility that operates on a shoestring, but is also regarded as having one of the country's finest collections of American art.
"It is a wonderful little museum," said James Reinish, a senior vice president at Hirschl & Adler, a New York gallery specializing in American painting.
"Olga Knoepke's collecting was mixed, but she had a feeling about art, and 'The Bird Watchers' is a fabulous painting," he added, referring to an eerily surreal work by George Tooker in the bequest that he said was worth $300,000.
The museum, occupying a genteel, tree-shaded stone house that has had galleries added over the years, has only five full-time staff members. It has an annual budget of $400,000 and attracts barely 30,000 visitors a year. Yet its esthetic terrain ranges from sober Gilbert Stuart portraits and grand Albert Bierstadt landscapes to the bold, muscular figures of Thomas Hart Benton's murals and haunting canvases by Jacob Lawrence.
"What we try to do is relate content over time, and look at the universal concerns of American art over 250 years," said Mr. DuBois, a 42-year-old painter and sculptor.
The New Britain Museum moved in 1937 into its current quarters overlooking Walnut Hill Park, designed by the 19th-century landscape architect Frederick Law Olmsted. A major portion of the museum's holdings came from a donation in the 1940's by Harriett and Alex Russell Stanley, whose family business, the Stanley Works hardware plants, has anchored New Britain economically for a century and a half.
Although it says it is the oldest museum devoted exclusively to American painting and sculpture, its low profile and meager finances have meant that it has grown principally through the generosity of artists and benefactors like Mrs. Knoepke or Charles and Elizabeth Buchanan, who bequeathed 34 American Impressionist paintings in 1989.
"Smaller gifts make a tremendous difference for us," Mr. DuBois said. "What we can do with relatively small amounts of money, to utilize our resources, would be impossible for a large museum."
Much of the museum's appeal derives from its intimacy, in the form of touches like a Stanley Works grandfather clock that chimes each quarter-hour at the entrance and the twice-weekly jazz and chamber-music programs for 100 concertgoers.
The museum's 18 gallery rooms proceed chronologically, beginning with a sedate library and dining room replete with fireplaces and divans to complement Colonial and Federal portraits, and 19th-century Realist and Impressionist paintings by Frederic Edwin Church, Thomas Cole, George Inness, Childe Hassam and others. Newer galleries are hung with 20th-century works by Georgia O'Keeffe, Marsden Hartley and John Sloan, as well as changing exhibitions like a current show by Connecticut women artists.
The most dramatic first-floor gallery is devoted to Benton's series of five oversized murals, "The Arts of Life in America," while the second floor is largely used to display the prized collection of 1,400 American illustrations, given by a group of artists since 1964, after the death of the museum's longtime first director, Sanford Low.
Today, as Mr. DuBois talks about expanding educational programs and perhaps adding new galleries and a sculpture garden, the museum may be at a turning point. Although it has never charged admission and had never even solicited donations until the 1980's, this year it embarked on its first capital drive.
But even this concession to modern realities is tempered by a desire to maintain its sense of scale.
"We have conversations about further physical expansion," Mr. DuBois said. "But we don't want to cut down the trees."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "What we can do with relatively small amounts of money, to utilize our resources, would be impossible for a large museum," said Daniel C. DuBois, director of the New Britain Museum of American Art in New Britain, Conn. He was surrounded by murals painted by Thomas Hart Benton. (Gale Zucker for The New York Times)
 
Map of Connecticut, indicating New Britain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SWK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (58%); NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW BRITAIN MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (CONN) NEW ENGLAND INDUSTRIAL SUPPLY CO INC (58%); STANLEY BLACK & DECKER INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW BRITAIN MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; GIFTS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); PAINTING (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ART COLLECTING (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: HOPPER, EDWARD (1882-1967); TOOKER, GEORGE; KNOEPKE, OLGA; YARROW, ANDREW L DANIEL C DUBOIS (86%); OLGA KNOEPKE (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



428 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: CITY IN THE SPOTLIGHT;
Mayor Dinkins Spins at the Center of a Weeklong Whirl

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins, who fought hard to bring the Democratic National Convention to New York City, has begun the exhausting week of politics, boosterism and partying required of him as the host of the 4,700 delegates and 15,000 journalists who have descended on Manhattan.
On Saturday, he greeted Gov. Bill Clinton at the airport and attended a welcoming party in Bryant Park for reporters. In the evening, he was host at a lawn party at Gracie Mansion honoring Hispanic delegates. 
 The Mayor spent yesterday in a whirlwind of appearances, rehearsing his welcoming speech at Madison Square Garden, racing up to the Apollo Theater in Harlem to pay tribute to the Rev. Jesse Jackson and then rushing back downtown to speak briefly at a reception for gay and lesbian delegates at B. Smith's Restaurant in midtown. Mr. Dinkins was clearly pleased at the attention he got at the Apollo. "I often say that Gracie Mansion may be my house -- but Harlem is my home."
The Mayor also attended a party for the Arkansas and Pennsylvania delegations at the Brooklyn Museum.
 
Civic Spin
 The busy week is a challenge he sought. He says he relishes the chance to burnish the city's image, which has been tarnished in recent years by the recession, crime, racial tensions and violent disturbances like those in Crown Heights last summer and in Washington Heights last week.
If the week goes well, it will no doubt prove useful both to the city and to the Mayor's political fortunes. After suffering through an extremely difficult first two years in office -- when the recession forced the city to make repeated and painful reductions in its budget -- Mr. Dinkins has received praise on his improved management of the city on everything from fiscal affairs to limiting violence in Washington Heights; an upbeat week as host to the Democrats could only benefit the Mayor who brought them here.
The Mayor will have ample opportunity to show off the city's brighter side. His schedule for the week includes at least a dozen radio and television interviews, many of them on national television networks.
He will also attend more than a dozen breakfasts, lunches and receptions, celebrating everything from the city's upscale restaurants and fashion and design industry to its museums. On Wednesday, for example, he will attend a breakfast at the Museum of Modern Art called "Muffins and Masterpieces at MOMA."
But Mr. Dinkins's whirlwind week will include more than civic boosterism. Tonight, he is to greet the convention delegates with a seven-minute welcoming address at the Garden. Immediately afterward, he is tentatively scheduled to be interviewed on the podium by Maria Shriver of NBC.
Mr. Dinkins will preside over a luncheon in the garden of Gracie Mansion tomorrow morning for the United States Conference of Mayors.
The Mayor is also a member of the Democrats' platform committee and is a vice chairman of the New York State delegation. And he has one other matter to consider during the four-day convention: running the city.
His aides have set aside a few hours each day for Mr. Dinkins to meet with his senior advisers, either at Gracie Mansion or at City Hall, and to attend to municipal business.
His schedule runs from 6:30 A.M. until midnight most days this week and includes time on the convention floor as well as appearances at events ranging from the delegate's three-mile run in Central Park tomorrow morning to a breakfast Thursday morning of the National Jewish Democratic Council.
The Mayor summed up his duties in an interview last week. "The idea," he said, "is for me to be as many places as I can, to be hospitable."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY B SMITH'S (56%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (57%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (57%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); JOURNALISM (77%); BUDGETS (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); WRITERS (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (68%); NETWORK TELEVISION (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); FINDER, ALAN BILL CLINTON (73%); JESSE JACKSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



429 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: CITY IN THE SPOTLIGHT;
Coveted Cameo Roles in a Drama With a Forgone Conclusion

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Mario M. Cuomo, Bill Bradley and Joseph I. Lieberman -- three elected officials from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut whom Gov. Bill Clinton considered as running mates -- have been given speaking parts in this week's Democratic national convention, lending the national event a distinct regional flair.
Since the conclusion is forgone -- Bill Clinton is king, Al Gore his chancellor -- all that is left to watch is how well the others play the game at Madison Square Garden. 
 A turn at the podium is a showcase for the speaker and a bouquet proffered by the party or by Mr. Clinton for favors past or a future freighted with promise. Thus some of the players who will strut and fret their hour upon the stage spent yesterday in a kind of dress rehearsal.
 
Watching Moss Grow
 Senator Bradley, whose star quality remains undiminished despite a speaking style that he admits has in the past been akin to watching moss grow on a flat rock, has emerged as something of an orator since two years ago when he almost lost an election by refusing to talk about anything anybody wanted to hear about.
Now, Mr. Bradley has centered on themes he really does seem to care about, racial division, the pathology of urban America and the dispossessed children that are the offspring of both. And he has managed to find a style that marries the aw-shucks modesty that befits an N.B.A. superstar with a new-found sense of passionate urgency.
He spoke yesterday at Riverside Church in upper Manhattan, which is as close to a Mecca for racial equality as exists in America, and later at Covenant House, at a convention to form an agenda to reclaim the estimated 100,000 children, some barely in their teens, who have left home to wander the nation's increasingly mean and dangerous streets. He gave the same speech and got an ovation both places.
He evoked the theme of racial alienation he has sounded before, first on the floor of the Senate almost exactly a year ago in a speech excoriating President Bush both for ignoring racial problems and intensifying them by "playing the race card" with the 1990 Willie Horton television commercials, and later in a speech before the National Press Club in which he asked "when was the last time you had a conversation about race with someone of a different race?"
While Mr. Bradley was largely taking the offensive, outlining new urban programs and talking of "an economy that takes everybody to a higher ground," Governor Cuomo was defending Mr. Clinton and for the first time took out after the insurgent Texas billionaire Ross Perot.
Acknowledging the tactic has been fatal to Democrats in the past, Gov. Cuomo praised his Arkansas colleague for telling voters "the bad news" about the need to raise taxes and cut entitlements. In a round of television interviews to promote the Democratic ticket, Mr. Cuomo also made his first disparaging remarks about Mr. Perot.
 
Doesn't Understand the Rules'
 He said that Mr. Perot, in remarks to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People on Saturday had shown that "he is not political in the best sense" and in that he "doesn't understand the rules and he doesn't understand the people."
Mr. Perot referred to blacks before his black audience on Saturday as "your people," which seemed to offend many in the crowd.
Mr. Cuomo said on Channel 2's "Sunday Edition Live" that Mr. Perot "doesn't know the groups, he doesn't know how to communicate with them." "He can't talk to the people in the inner cities the way Bill Clinton can," Mr. Cuomo said.
He also said Mr. Clinton could make "the best candidate since Kennedy."
Governor Cuomo's regional accent, as well as those of others at the convention, could be critical.
Democrats lost the state in 1984 and barely carried it four years later, and it is considered vital to a victory by Mr. Clinton in November. In 1988, President Bush carried New Jersey and Connecticut. By enlisting the leading Democrats in each state -- plus the region's only Hispanic Congressman, Jose E. Serrano of the Bronx -- as convention speakers this week, the Democratic National Committee and Mr. Clinton are playing to their party's strength and to a pivotal constituency.
 
Nominating Speech
 Governor Cuomo -- who decided only last December against running himself -- will nominate Mr. Clinton for President on Wednesday night.
Senator Bradley of New Jersey will deliver one of three speeches tonight that collectively constitute this year's keynote. Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey is scheduled to address the convention on Wednesday before the nominating speeches.
Connecticut's lone scheduled speaker is Senator Lieberman, who represented Mr. Clinton on the platform drafting committee. He is to speak tomorrow night after the party's platform is presented.
Mr. Bradley was courted assiduously as a running mate by Mr. Clinton. Mr. Cuomo was urged by some party leaders to consider an invitation to be the candidate for Vice President. Mr. Lieberman was among the other prospects mentioned, which might have made him the nation's first Jewish Vice President.
New Yorkers may be asked to nominate other candidates or second their nominations. Besides Mr. Cuomo and David N. Dinkins, the host city's mayor, other speakers invited by the Democratic National Committee or the Clinton camp are Representative Serrano -- a bow to the city's Puerto Rican population -- and Manhattan Borough President Ruth W. Messinger, an early Clinton supporter who scored a coup in being invited to the podium.
New Yorkers, including Mayor Abraham D. Beame, were instrumental in luring the 1976 and 1980 Democratic conventions, which nominated and re-nominated Jimmy Carter, to New York. The 1976 convention was the first for New York since 1924. But New Yorkers played only cameo roles at the conventions themselves.
In 1984, the convention chose Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro of Queens as its candidate for Vice President. Mr. Cuomo delivered a stirring keynote address that immediately made him the party's most sought-after public speaker. Mayor Edward I. Koch of New York was received more cooly when he appealed for military intervention to stem the flow of illegal drugs.
In 1988, New Yorkers were again largely relegated to bit parts at best.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speeches by Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut will lend the Democratic national convention a distinct regional flair. Mr. Bradley performed a sound check yesterday on the podium in Madison Square Garden. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY NATIONAL PRESS (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CELEBRITIES (73%); RACE & RACISM (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BRADLEY, BILL (SEN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); ROBERTS, SAM BILL CLINTON (94%); JOE LIEBERMAN (90%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



430 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. in Chip Deal With Toshiba and Siemens

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
In a historic shift in what has been a bitter rivalry to dominate the world's semiconductor industry, I.B.M. will announce today that it is joining with two electronics giants, Toshiba of Japan and Siemens of Germany, to develop memory chips that are likely to be a mainstay of computers used in the next century.
The joint effort will take place at an I.B.M. semiconductor factory in East Fishkill, N.Y., which industry executives regard as a victory for both the International Business Machines Corporation and the United States, with scientists and engineers from the three computer companies working together. 
 No joint manufacturing is currently planned.
"This is an unprecedented shift," said Robert Reich, a Harvard economist and expert on international trade and competitiveness. "The global economy respects no borders and these companies are all becoming extensions of one another. It's truly the arrival of the global economic web."
In the 1980's, the belief that America was in danger of losing its independent ability to manufacture the most modern computer chips raised great alarm and was the driving force behind the creation of Sematech, a United States Government and industry consortium to develop basic chip-making technology.
I.B.M. was a leading backer of the effort to create Sematech and also helped support U.S. Memories Inc., a private joint venture of American companies to make memory chips. The company failed in 1990.
It was also in the 1980's that I.B.M. -- fearful of the growing power of the Japanese -- sought a link with Siemens. The two companies currently manufacture small memory chips at a factory in France and develop larger chips.
More recently, several changes in the international climate have altered American and European executives' perceptions of the Japanese.
First, the collapse of the Japanese stock market has limited Japan's access to the huge amounts of capital necessary to build advanced semiconductors. Moreover, several other nations in Asia have entered the semiconductor market, putting added pressure on the Japanese.
"The costs and risks of developing these chips have become enormous," said Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., president of the Economic Strategy Institute. "Toshiba has just lost too much money in the memory market. Even the Japanese are feeling the heat."
Starting in 1986, I.B.M. had agreed to make display screens for portable and other types of computers for Toshiba. But the agreement to be announced this morning goes much further, representing a commitment to a technology that is likely to be dominant when it becomes available in six to eight years.
The new chips that will be developed will be able to store 256 million bits of data each, roughly equivalent to 10,000 pages of typed text. That huge capacity is expected to let computer scientists achieve breakthroughs in areas including computer speech recognition, machine vision and computer reasoning.
The new partnership reflects, in part, the huge cost of developing each generation of memory chips, which are the backbone not only of the computer industry, but also of an increasingly wide variety of consumer products, including televisions, telephones, microwave ovens and video cameras.
I.B.M. officials say that because of the sophisticated technology needed to make chips, it costs $500 million to build a manufacturing plant capable of making today's most advanced kinds, which can store 16 million bits of information. By the end of the decade, the cost is expected to rise to $1 billion.
The alliance of I.B.M., Toshiba and Siemens also suggests a fundamental shift in the battle to control the global computer industry, a struggle that has pitted the world's most powerful companies and governments in the last decade.
"I think that in the past a number of us exaggerated the rate at which the Japanese would continue to progress in controlling semiconductor equipment and process technology and exaggerated the consequences of controlling the semiconductor market," said Charles H. Ferguson, an industry consultant and an Massachusetts Institute of Technology researcher.
I.B.M. suffered its worst financial year ever last year and in December embarked on a radical companywide decentralization, freeing its independent businesses to compete more aggressively and to strike deals with other companies.
In the past, I.B.M. used its semiconductor design and manufacturing ability largely to supply its own needs, but I.B.M. executives have said recently that the computer maker is eager to expand the role of its semiconductor business and to compete with companies that sell their chips on the open market.
Professor Reich said that as recently as two years ago, he had conversations with European manufacturers, including Siemens, in which executives of those companies talked about joining with United States manufacturers because they feared the Japanese.
Significantly, the joint development agreement will not involve X-ray lithography, a chipmaking technology in which I.B.M. has a huge investment.
Until recently, most semiconductor designers believed that it would be necessary to shift from visible light to X-rays to etch the incredibly fine circuit lines of the most advanced memory chips beyond 16 million bits. In the last two years technology advances in the use of ultraviolet light and related techniques have extended the limits of optical lithography.
Now many semiconductor engineers believe that it will be possible to use ultraviolet light to etch circuits as fine as 25-hundredths of a micron (a human hair is about 75 microns wide), the width necessary to build 256-million-bit chips.
Several industry executives and policy analysts said that the decision to carry out the research project at an I.B.M. development plant was a victory both for the computer maker and for the United States. In the past, other key development projects between the companies have been carried out in Japan and France.
Indeed, the most important point, Professor Reich said, is that the development effort will take place in East Fishkill.
"That has enormous significance for Americans," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (96%); 6502 (TSE) (96%); SIN (SWX) (92%); SIE (LSE) (92%); SIE (FRA) (92%); SIE (BIT) (92%); SI (NYSE) (92%); IBMC (BRU) (85%); IBM (NYSE) (85%); IBM (LSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); TOSHIBA CORP; SIEMENS AG TOSHIBA CORP (96%); SIEMENS AG (92%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); TOSHIBA CORP; SIEMENS AG

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (76%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SEMICONDUCTORS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS ELECTRONICS (91%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); MACHINE VISION (75%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); IMAGE PROCESSING & COMPUTER VISION (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (50%); 

PERSON: MARKHOFF, JOHN ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



431 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: Washington at Work;
Iraq Loans Put What's-His-Name in a Public Role

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 12

 BODY:
In his 12 years in government, Frank M. Lemay has always strived to fit the profile of the ideal bureaucrat, working overtime to make his superiors look smart on such specialties as Colombian coffee quotas and reducing greenhouse gases, and above all never getting his name in print.
Even his self-portrait is self-effacing. 
 "I'm not a pushover, and if I want something done a certain way I'll make my views known," the slightly built Foreign Service officer said in an interview in his remarkably neat postage-stamp-sized office in the Bureau of Legislative Affairs. "But I've always been a behind-the-scenes, pretty standard bureaucrat who doesn't seek out the limelight."
But the limelight is exactly where Mr. Lemay finds himself, hauled before Congress to be hailed by Democrats as a fearless Cassandra, frozen out by his State Department superiors as a whistleblower, and worse -- pooh-poohed by the President himself on national television.
The 35-year-old economist's cocoon of anonymity disappeared on March 30 when Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, the Texas Democrat, disclosed in a speech on the House floor the contents of a classified memo -- one of many he had requested from the State Department -- that Mr. Lemay wrote in October 1989.
 
The Famous Memo
 With a bluntness rare in diplomatese, the memo warned of evidence that President Saddam Hussein of Iraq had misused a United States farm-loan program to buy nuclear-related equipment, adding that a Federal investigation into the Atlanta bank that had been the primary lender could "blow the roof off."
"If smoke indicates fire, we may be facing a four-alarm blaze in the near future," Mr. Lemay wrote to his superiors in the office of the Under Secretary for Economic Affairs, urging caution in approving new credit guarantees.
It was a caution not taken, as $500 million in new credits of a possible $1 billion were extended a few weeks later. The disclosure has thrust Mr. Lemay into a maelstrom about the Bush Administration's policy toward Iraq before the invasion of Kuwait. And under assault, the mild-mannered Mr. Lemay, who once won a State Department award for macro-economic memo-writing under extraordinary pressure, is toughening up.
 
A Tough Response
 After two of the four senior Agriculture Department officials whose briefing was the subject of his memo told Congress that he had been writing fiction, he replied, in sworn testimony, "I was quite taken aback."
In uncharacteristically strong language, he added: "I had no motivation to make anything up," saying, "I completely stand behind the memo that I wrote. I will take full responsibility for what is said in there."
On the surface Mr. Lemay, who sometimes omits please-and-thank-you politesse in conversations with subordinates, remains dispassionate.
"I saw this attack as very personal," he said in the clipped, understated tone he used before the committee. "It impugned my professional reputation, and it was very important to me to put things straight. I wasn't a firebrand screaming, 'Kill the program!' I was simply concerned that people review the allegations."
But colleagues say that the experience has turned his life upside down. A bachelor who spends much of his spare time laboriously renovating an old row house in the ethnically mixed Mount Pleasant section of Washington, he suddenly found himself spending most of his waking hours trying to reconstruct the events of three years ago, a task made more difficult because the State Department has been unable to locate his files.
Mr. Lemay has been shunned by his superiors, these colleagues say, a result of the chilling effect of charges by some Congressional Democrats of Administration criminality.
Even some senior officials sympathetic to Mr. Lemay's plight defend their reluctance to talk to him, saying they do not want to be accused of advising him in ways that Congressional Democrats would construe as a cover-up.
None of his superiors offered to review his testimony or wished him luck before his committee appearance, or called him afterward to congratulate him on a job well done, his colleagues say, a point Mr. Lemay is unwilling to talk about. The State Department legal adviser, Edwin D. Williamson, met with him briefly before his testimony but offered no legal assistance; Mr. Lemay has paid a personal lawyer to represent him.
 
The Few Who Back Him
 "It was important in the Lemay case that it not appear that he was being coached or primed or coerced in whatever testimony he gave," says Mr. Williamson, explaining State Department tiptoeing. "Our advice to him was to tell the truth, to stick to what he knew personally and to avoid speculation. It was my impression that he was not hung out to dry and that he had access to the documents that he needed to the extent that they were available."
When asked whether Mr. Lemay might get the impression he was being ostracized by the Department, Mr. Williamson replied, "You probably can't have it both ways."
Only Mr. Lemay's former superiors have come to his defense publicly.
"He is a person of the highest integrity who did an excellent job in the time he served in my office," said Richard T. McCormack, the former Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs who assigned his young assistant to look into the farm-credit program. Sam Hoskinson, Mr. Lemay's immediate superior, who has since returned to the Central Intelligence Agency, said, "I have not seen any better than Lemay."
 
What Bush Didn't Know
 Much to Mr. Lemay's dismay, his testimony even caught the attention of President Bush, who has become progressively more flustered in explaining his pre-war Iraq policy.
When asked about the memo, he sputtered, denying that the State Department ever knew about the diversion, which in fact remains unproven. "You can talk about what one State Department employee -- and if we had known it, it wouldn't have happened," he said on a network news program on July 1.
The stakes are high. Democrats are determined to make the matter an election issue, while Republicans are worried that what was once regarded as Mr. Bush's greatest triumph as President, the Persian Gulf war, has been transformed unfairly into one of his most significant political liabilities.
State Department officials close to Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d play down the significance of Mr. Lemay's memo. They point out that the allegations he highlighted -- that a United States loan program may have paid for Iraqi arms -- are still only allegations.
And although they acknowledge that Mr. Baker was fully aware of them from memos and briefings, they say that the policy of providing Iraq with incentives, ordered by Mr. Bush less than two weeks before Mr. Lemay wrote his memo, was too important to be slowed down by unsubstantiated reports.
"The issue was brought to the attention of all the big boys and Baker was aware of all the assertions through the huge paper trail," said one official. "We knew Saddam Hussein wasn't a saint and there was this bank thing in Atlanta, but we couldn't cut off a policy based on hunches and assertions. Frank Lemay didn't report anything differently from other people. His problem was that he put it in more bombastic language."
Still, the memo was deemed so sensitive that when it reached Mr. Baker's outer office, it was stamped with a highly unusual designation: "Not For the System." The designation, which prevents distribution throughout the bureaucracy, is used only for highly secret or highly embarrassing information. No one seems to know, or wants to say, which this memo was.
 
The Loan Deal Goes Through
 On Oct. 6, well before what has come to be called the "bells and whistles memo" arrived in his office, Mr. Baker told Iraq's Foreign Minister, Tariq Aziz, that "he would immediately look into what could be done" to resolve the matter and that he was eager for the loan to proceed, according to a summary of the meeting.
Because Mr. McCormack and Mr. Hoskinson were still wary, Mr. Lemay was sent to the Agriculture Department for a briefing on the credit program and the continuing Federal investigation of the bank.
Indeed, it was only after the State Department's legal adviser concluded that there was no overwhelming reason not to go forward with the full $1 billion program that Mr. McCormack "saw the writing on the wall," as one confidant put it. He approved the program.
Mr. Lemay, who is to become staff economist for the State Department's policy planning staff, has a poster in his office that says "Wanted -- by the U.S. Congress," with his photo in the center.
Department officials point to his assignment to a key policy-making office as proof that he is not being punished for his words.
"I'm a soft-spoken economist, hero-pariah," he said of his current status, laughing. "No, just kidding."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 15, 1992, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a Washington at Work article on Monday about Frank M. Lemay, a Foreign Service officer, misstated the position of Richard T. McCormack, a former Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, on new credit guarantees to Iraq in 1989. Mr. McCormack approved the program on the condition that the guarantees be provided in stages and that the program include safeguards.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank M. Lemay, whose 1989 warning that Iraq had misused an American-backed farm loan program to buy nuclear-related equipment was disclosed in March by Representative Henry B. Gonzalez. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Frank Maurice Lemay"
 
Born: March 5, 1957.
 
Lives in: Washington
 
Education: Munich American High School (Department of Defense school in Germany); A.A., University of Maryland, Munich Campus, Germany; B.S.F.S., Georgetown University, School of Foreign Service; M.A., The Johns Hopkins University, School of Advanced International Studies.
 
Career Highlights: 1980-81, program officer, United States Department of Agriculture; 1981-83, consular officer and assistant general services officer, American Embassy in the Dominican Republic; 1983-84, staff aide, Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American affairs; 1984-86, policy planning officer, Bureau of Inter-American Affairs, Department of State; 1986-88, deputy director, economic section, American Embassy in Colombia; 1989-91, sepcial assistant, Under Secretary of State for Economic and Agricultural Affairs; 1991-present, legislative management officer for multilateral economic issues, Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of State.
 
Hobbies: Tennis, squach, racquetball, skiing, theater, music, home renovation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); COLOMBIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); GERMANY (74%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: MUNICH, GERMANY (69%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (59%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); COLOMBIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); GERMANY (74%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MUNICH, GERMANY (69%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AGRICULTURE; FOREIGN AID; ATOMIC WEAPONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); WITNESSES (69%); FIRES (69%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (69%); TESTIMONY (68%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); APPROVALS (61%); GREENHOUSE GASES (57%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; LEMAY, FRANK; LEMAY, FRANK (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



432 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 13, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
I.B.M. is joining with Toshiba and Siemens to develop memory chips that are likely to be a mainstay of the computers used in the next century. The venture marks a historic shift in the bitter rivalry for domination in the world semiconductor industry. [Page D1.]
Conagra is expanding its highly successful Healthy Choice products into snacks and desserts, but some food industry experts say the company may be jeopardizing the success of the three-year-old line by moving too fast. [D1.] 
 Toyota's American subsidiary will start buying parts from Chrysler next year as part of its bid to ease trade tensions with U.S. auto makers. [D10.]
Lord King, the 73-year-old chairman of British Airways, is expected to announce his resignation this week and will be replaced by the carrier's No. 2 executive. [D10.]
 
The Economy
Michigan's version of the value-added tax has been hailed as the wave of the future; other states and the Federal Government are considering following its lead. But others would like to wave it goodbye, including thousands of small businesses that complain about the heavy paperwork. [D1.]
 
The Media Business
While Vanity Fair may be the hottest magazine on the market, some mystery remains about whether it makes money. Tina Brown, in her eight years as editor in chief, attracted a growing readership; but while revenues rose, so did the magazine's costs. [D1.]
Nickelodeon's success as a network for children has broadcasters trying to tap the children's market. And Nickelodeon is moving into prime time with a Saturday night lineup of cartoons. [D8.]
American newspapers are scrambling to recover political campaign ads, a business that now goes largely to television. [D8.]
Scientific American's 15-year-old monthly publication that provides detailed medical updates to 25,000 doctors will begin accepting advertising next year. [D8.]
Pepsi-Cola believes in Magic. The soft-drink giant is beginning a campaign, with Magic Johnson, marking the first time the basketball star has appeared in Pepsi's national advertising since he announced last fall that he had tested positive for the virus that causes AIDS. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D9.]
 
International
The I.M.F. will delay creating a $6 billion fund to help stabilize the ruble until the Russians restore order to their economy -- probably not before early next year. [A8.]
 
Today's Columns
Lots of red-white-and-blue hype and hoopla surrounded the opening of the American Stock Exchange's Emerging Company Marketplace nearly four months ago. But the problems have been large, and publicity has focused on the less-than-pristine history of some companies listed. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]
Government-sponsored enterprises like Fannie Mae usually have a pretty easy time on Capitol Hill. But when the College Construction Loan Insurance Association recently tried to branch out into the most creditworthy securities, Congress limited the agency's business to the benefit of private bond insurers. Kenneth N. Gilpin: Credit Markets. [D7.]

CORRECTION-DATE: July 16, 1992, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about Vanity Fair's profitability misidentified the magazine's publisher in some editions. He is Ronald A. Galotti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); TOS (LSE) (58%); 6502 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (60%); SIEMENS AG (58%); TOSHIBA CORP (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (56%); NYSE MKT LLC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (86%); ELECTRONICS (79%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (79%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (79%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (76%); BEVERAGE MFG (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); MEMORY CHIPS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); YOUTH MARKET (70%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (68%); VALUE ADDED TAX (67%); CHILDREN (64%); AIDS & HIV (64%); SOFT DRINKS (61%); BASKETBALL (61%); RESIGNATIONS (54%); POLITICS (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINA HAMBLEY 'TINA' BROWN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1992



433 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: UNDER THE BIG TOP -- THE CONVENTION;
DEMOCRATS PLEDGE CHANGE, FOR BOTH PARTY AND NATION, AS THEIR CONVENTION BEGINS

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
Democrats opened their convention last night with the traditional brass bands, balloons and hoopla, while a parade of leaders tried to assure the television audience that the party had moderated its policies and could be trusted to govern again.
The Democrats repeatedly denounced President Bush as a failed President who had let the country drift into recession and division and was utterly unequipped to steady its course. 
 Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, one of three keynote speakers, said Mr. Bush had "waffled and wiggled and wavered" in the face of great challenges at home and abroad.
 
'We Will Not Die'
 But Democratic leaders also took pains to present Gov. Bill Clinton, who will accept the Democratic nomination on Thursday night, as the leader of a party that was tougher and smarter after its years in the wilderness.
"The Democratic Party is alive and well," said former Representative Barbara Jordan of Texas, another keynote speaker. "We will change in order to satisfy the present, in order to satisfy the future, but we will not die."[Excerpts from speeches, page A12.]
The convention was punctuated by rowdy demonstrations on the floor from supporters of former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, who continued to withhold an endorsement of the party's presumed nominee and was thus denied a speaking role in the program. But Mr. Clinton had a firm grip on this gathering, and his forces used it to try to project the centrist image they hope will carry him to the White House.
 
'Feel the Pain'
 Mayor David N. Dinkins welcomed the Democrats to New York, and used his time to outline an urban agenda. "Walk the streets of this city and feel the pain of an entire nation," he said. "Feel the pain of families ravaged by AIDS, of tiny babies who crave deadly crack cocaine the way that other babies crave their mother's breast."
The party also used the evening to showcase its female candidates for the Senate, who have prompted new hopes of a breakthrough year for women in politics, and who were greeted with proud and emotional applause.
The 41st national convention opened with much of the pageantry expected of a political party that just celebrated its 200th birthday, but also with the edge of self-criticism expected of a party that has lost five out of the last six Presidential elections.
Ms. Jordan, with the haunting cadence that made her speech at the 1976 Democratic convention so memorable, declared, "Why not change from a party with a reputation of 'tax and spend' to one of investment and growth?" Echoing a theme often sounded by Mr. Clinton when he moved toward a Presidential campaign a year ago, she said, "We must leave this convention with a determination to convince the American people to trust us. The American electorate must be persuaded to trust us, the Democrats, to govern again."
 
Opprobrium for Bush
 Even given the norms of party conventions, the contempt heaped on Mr. Bush was striking. Ronald H. Brown, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee, led the delegates in a chant: "Read our lips: No second term!"
Numerous other speakers took the stand to paint a grim picture of what they asserted was 12 years of Republican inaction on domestic policy. Gov. Ann W. Richards of Texas, who stole the show at the Democratic convention in Atlanta with her lacerating portrait of Mr. Bush as a man "born with a silver foot in his mouth," told the group last night: "I hate to say it. But I told you so."
But Ross Perot, the undeclared independent candidate who some Democrats believe will ultimately hurt President Bush the most, was not spared, even though Mr. Clinton himself has avoided criticizing him. Gov. Zell Miller, who helped save Mr. Clinton's candidacy in the primary season by delivering Georgia, and fiercely attacking former Senator Paul E. Tsongas, took on Mr. Perot.
"Ross says he'll clean out the barn, but he's been knee deep in it for years," Mr. Miller said, in a rollicking populist counterattack that set the delegates roaring. "If he's an outsider, folks, I'm from Brooklyn." He added, "The choice in this election is clear: We've got us a race between an aristocrat, an autocrat and a Democrat."
One of the principal themes of the night was the "year of the woman," and one of the surest applause lines was voicing support for Anita F. Hill. Senator Barbara A. Mikulski of Maryland, introducing the Democratic women running for Senate this year, declared, "Never again will a woman come forward to tell her story to a committee of the United States Senate -- and then be assaulted for telling the truth."
 
Setting the Tone
 The first night of the convention had the kind of thematic consistency expected from Republicans, but unusual for Democrats, who more often use their conventions to heal lingering wounds from the primaries.
Again and again, speakers pointed to their party as one that "looks like America." As House Speaker Thomas S. Foley put it, "We can be proud that this convention looks like our country, not like a country club."
Mr. Clinton set the tone on CNN last night by describing himself and Senator Al Gore, his running mate, as "two people who have tried to immerse themselves in the kind of changes we have to make" to restore the nation's economic edge.
Still, underscoring the voter-friendly, Middle American image they seek, he added, "There is a little bit of Bubba in both of us, and I don't think that's all bad."
The Brown forces, however, refused to be scripted. When the convention rules were adopted by a voice vote, overriding the Brown delegates' attempts to debate reforms for the Democratic Party, the Brown camp erupted with shouts of "No, no, no, no." They waved banners that said, "Unity not uniformity" and "Let Jerry Speak."
 
Few Worries for Clinton
 Still, Mr. Clinton had the equanimity of a man backed by more than 2,700 of the 4,288 voting delegates, and who by the fall of the gavel yesterday had won the endorsement of all his rivals except former Governor Brown. Moreover, unlike Michael S. Dukakis in 1988, Mr. Clinton was not confronted with a dedicated contingent of more than 1,000 Jesse Jackson delegates.
Mr. Jackson remained aggrieved, but without the power inside the con vention hall he had in 1984 and 1988.
Jerry Brown, his suit wrinkled from a night spent in a homeless shelter, remained a holdout in all the determined harmony yesterday and seemed to revel in the role. "The only story is, 'Can we make some real change out there at the convention?' " he said.
Conversations continued between Mr. Brown and top party leaders, although the latter seemed increasingly exasperated. "You'll have to get the status of Jerry Brown from Jerry Brown," said Ronald Brown at one point yesterday.
Party leaders have held that Mr. Brown will not be given a speaking slot until he endorses Mr. Clinton; Mr. Brown could still address the convention, however, by giving his own nominating speech.
 
Middle Ground in Platform
 There were other tensions amid the hoopla. Gov. Robert P. Casey of Pennsylvania held a news conference to say he wanted a chance to speak against the party's strong platform plank on abortion rights. Kate Michelman, head of the National Abortion Rights Action League, countered, "Governor Casey is out of touch with the views of his delegation, Pennsylvania and America."
Still, by normal Democratic standards, this was a fairly peaceable crew.
Nowhere was Mr. Clinton's control more apparent than in the platform the delegates will consider Tuesday night, which represents the presumed nominee's careful search for a politically appealing middle ground.
It calls for more education, training and child care for those on welfare, for example, but then asserts that all the able-bodied must go to work. It declares that the party rejects "both the do-nothing government of the last 12 years and the big government theory that says we can hamstring business and tax and spend our way to prosperity." It calls for a "third way."
Mr. Clinton was keeping a limited public schedule, although he did go to a community meeting at the Henry Street Settlement on the Lower East Side, speaking against a backdrop of black teenagers, Hasidic rabbis, Asian women and Hispanic social workers. If the message of Democratic inclusive ness wasn't obvious, Mr. Clinton made it so. He promised to "give you anadministration that looks like America," adding, "I mean, look at this crowd today: This is America."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Former Representative Barbara Jordan addressing the Democratic National Convention last night. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); Mayor David N. Dinkins acknowledging the delegates' reception at Madison Square Garden last night. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) ; ENDORSEMENTS POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (62%); COCAINE (50%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BRADLEY, BILL (SEN); MILLER, ZELL (GOV); JORDAN, BARBARA; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BROWN, JERRY (EDMUND G BROWN JR); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) JERRY BROWN (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



434 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Is Planning Strict New Testing Of Auto Emissions

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13

 BODY:
Responding to a court order, the Bush Administration today issued a rule that will require about one-third of the nation's 180 million cars and light trucks to undergo tougher and more expensive emissions tests.
The rule, required under the 1990 Clean Air Act, is intended to clear urban skies of smog and other pollutants. Under the Environmental Protection Agency's proposal, approved by the White House, 55 urban areas nationwide that now have no auto emissions tests will be required to start them by next July. The rule is not expected to be significantly changed when it becomes final after a 90-day comment period expires in November.
 
Smog Reduction Expected
 
 The rule also calls for much more rigorous testing than now exists in cities with the most serious air pollution. Under that requirement, 84 metropolitan regions, including the New York metropolitan area, much of New England, the Middle Atlantic States and California, will be required to install $150,000 treadmills with computer-aided diagnostic equipment so sensitive that millions of poorly maintained cars that now pass inspection are likely to fail and require repairs.
Once the new program is in operation, the Government says it will reduce smog by 30 percent in many cities and carbon monoxide pollution by more than half. Smog irritates the lungs, and carbon monoxide can interfere with blood circulation, particularly among children, the elderly and people with heart disease.
The new rule is the broadest and most stringent of any issued under the Clean Air Act of 1990. Many more rules are still to be written, including most of those that are expected to place burdens on industry. Most of those future regulations, including one to reduce toxic chemical emissions and other pollutants, are a year or more overdue. For now, because of the proposed rule issued today, the greatest burden for cleaning smog in the cities will fall on individual owners of cars and trucks.
On July 1, a Federal district judge in Brooklyn, acting in a case brought by New York State, ordered the Administration to issue the testing rule by today rather than next January, as the agency had planned.
William K. Reilly, the head of the environmental agency, explained today that the Clean Air Act directed the Government to insure that the entire nation, including citizens and industry, share the burden of cleaning the nation's skies.
But while environmentalists praised the Administration's new testing requirements today, they also noted that the rules issued so far followed what they called an Administration pattern of bowing to big business.
The agency said today that 15 percent of the nation's cars produce 75 percent of auto emission problems. Many of those cars are likely to fail the new tests.
In the 80 or so metropolitan regions with the dirtiest air, the new rule would require testing cars and trucks with systems that have been tested by the E.P.A. in Baltimore, Hammond, Ind., and Phoenix, agency officials said. In those tests cars will be put on treadmills, called dynamometers, and their exhaust and fuel systems checked for excess pollutants while they are accelerating, running at speed and slowing down. Such testing systems can cost $150,000 or more, and agency officials said they did not know how many machines would be needed to service the more than 60 million cars in the 80 dirtiest regions.
When a vehicle fails the test, its owner will be required to pay for repairs that the E.P.A. estimated could cost $25 to $450. If a driver shows proof that he paid at least $450 for repairs after failing the test, the requirements will automatically be waived even if the car still does not pass. But the car would be expected to meet the standards in its next required test, unless the owner again spends at least $450.
The new requirements imposed on car owners come just two weeks after the Administration relaxed standards for 34,000 manufacturing, refining and chemical plants that emit the same pollutants as automobiles and trucks. Under that rule, issued June 25, manufacturers will be able to pour tens of millions of additional pounds of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide and volatile organic compounds into the atmosphere just by asking states for permission to do so. The public will not be given a chance to comment on that rule.
Both rules were approved by the President's Council on Competitiveness, a Cabinet group headed by Vice President Dan Quayle. When asked today whether the two rules were contradictory, William G. Rosenberg, the agency's Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation, said, "I don't see a contradiction."
Of the rule for manufacturers, he said, "There was an effort to balance economic concerns and the environmental progress." He added, "In that case the White House made a decision that the procedures to require a public hearing would be too burdensome."
Mr. Rosenberg said the Administration saw today's rule as a way for the nation to see pollution reduced "at low cost and have the most stringent rules available."
The E.P.A. plan does not stipulate who will pay for the new testing equipment; the agency said it was giving states the authority to decide how to operate the program. The Department of Transporation said it would make grants available to help put the program into effect.
The E.P.A. also said it would encourage states to build centralized testing stations to prevent the sort of fraud that has plagued some testing programs now being run in private service stations. With few exceptions, the agency rule will require that testing stations or private companies conducting the tests not be allowed to make the repairs.
Automobile and oil industry officials not surprisingly expressed support for the new rule today. Reducing emissions of toxic chemicals from automobiles is likely ease the pressure on the manufacturers for additional reductions.
But the Natural Resources Defense Council, a national environmental group based in New York, was critical of the Administration's action. So wasRepresentative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who was a principal author of the Clean Air Act.
Deborah A. Sheiman, a resource specialist for the environmental group, pointed out that the Clean Air Act directed that advanced diagnostic systems be installed in the most polluted cities by Nov. 15, 1992. The Administration's program will not begin operation until July 1, 1994, and will not be fully effective until 1998, the environmental agency has said.
Mr. Waxman said: "E.P.A.'s new rule to assure that autos are correctly inspected is a step forward. Unfortunately, when it comes to vitally important rules that apply not to consumers, but to big polluters like auto makers and oil companies, the Administration has consistently failed to follow the new clean-air law."
The testing rule is one of three provisions designed to reduce urban smog, half of which is caused by emissions from cars and trucks. The first provision, written into the law by Congress, directed auto makers to begin building cleaner vehicles by 1994.
The second provision, announced last year by the Administration, was a proposal for refiners to produce new gasolines with higher concentrations of oxygen that would evaporate much less easily and burn more cleanly. The Administration has not yet issued the rule on reformulated gasoline as a final measure.
Today, the environmental agency said that reducing emissions of nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide and volatile organic compounds in cars was much cheaper than gaining the same reductions from factory smokestacks.


GRAPHIC: These are some of the cities that will be required to put a basic auto-emissions test in place by July 1993.
 
Illinois
 Aurora
 Elgin
 Joliet
 Round Lake Beach
 
Kentucky
 Ashland
 
Maine
 Lewiston-Auburn
 
Michigan
 Ann Arbor
 Grand Rapids
 Muskegon-Muskegon Heights
 
North Carolina
 Durham
 Gastonia
 
Ohio
 Akron
 Dayton
 Marietta
 Springfield
 Toledo
 
Texas
 Beaumont
 Galveston
 Lewisville
 Port Arthur
 Texas City-La Marque
 
Virginia
 Petersburg-Colonial Heights
 Richmond
 
West Virginia
 Charleston
 Huntington
 Parkersburg
 
Wisconsin
 Sheboygan, Wis.
Tables: "Testing Auto Emissions"
These are some of the cities in areas with higher pollution that will be required to put a more sophisticated auto-emission test in place by July 1994. Dozens of other cities that already have basic emissions tests, including New York. Atlanta, Boston, Houston, San Diego and Washington, must also adopt the stricter test.
 
Maine
 Portland
 Rochester
 
Massachusetts
 Salem-Gloucester
 
Maryland
 Hagerstown
 
New Hampshire
 Dover
 Manchester
 Portsmouth
 
New York
 Albany-Schenectady-Troy
 Binghamton
 Buffalo
 Glen Falls
 Jamestown-Dunkirk
 Niagara Falls
 Orange County
 Poughkeepsie
 Syracuse
 Utica-Rome
 
Pennsylvania
 Altoona
 Erie
 Harrisburg-Lebannon-Carlisle
 Johnstown
 Lancaster
 Reading
 Scranton-Wilkes Barre
 Sharon
 State College
 Williamsport
 York
 
Vermont
 Burlington
 
Washington
 Tacoma
 
(Source: Environmental Protection Agency) (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); ERIE, PA, USA (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SALEM, OR, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (74%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (71%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (59%); DURHAM, NC, USA (59%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (59%); AKRON, OH, USA (59%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); ACT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); ACT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); TACOMA, WA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); HAGERSTOWN, MD, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%); ERIE, PA, USA (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SALEM, OR, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (74%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (71%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (59%); DURHAM, NC, USA (59%); JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (59%); AKRON, OH, USA (59%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; SMOG; AUTOMOBILES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; CLEAN AIR ACT OF 1990; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION ; URBAN AREAS SMOG (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); EMISSIONS (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); CITIES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); CARBON MONOXIDE (77%); AIR POLLUTION (77%); JUDGES (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); 

PERSON: SCHNEIDER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) ANN LIVERMORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



435 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: UNDER THE BIG TOP -- NEWS ANALYSIS;
Savoring July's Euphoria

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

 BODY:
Sometime in the last three or four weeks, a lot of Democrats changed their minds. They stopped going through the motions, stopped thinking about defeat while they talked about victory, and allowed themselves to believe that they actually had a chance to win the Presidency with Bill Clinton.
"The planets are coming into alignment," said Vernon Jordan, a big-time Washington lawyer. 
 "Al Gore will wear very well," said Peter Hart, a Democratic poll taker. "He's a candidate for October as well as July."
"The Reagan Democrats in my district have started to come around," reported Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan.
"Am I wrong, or is there a new jolt of energy around here?" asked Richard Holbrooke, a State Department official in the Carter Administration, now on Wall Street.
Robert A. Farmer, a prodigious fund-raiser, added, "I'm finding it easier to persuade people to open their books and write big checks."
And so it went, from brunch on Sunday to nightcap yesterday, as the Democrats, giddy as a clutch of debutantes, revved themselves up for their quadrennial convention. They liked what they saw on television of their man speaking in Tennessee, and they liked what little they saw of him in person in New York. "More relaxed," they concluded. "Not so defensive. Upbeat."
 
Euphoria, for Now
 But the sense of euphoria was more than a little fragile, especially among those who have been to these shindigs before. The sharp sting of 1988 is still there. The statistic on everyone's mind is Michael S. Dukakis's 17-point lead in July that turned into an 8-point deficit in November.
More than anything, the Democrats worry about the Republicans reviving the charges about his private life that plagued Mr. Clinton in New Hampshire and across the country, pushing his six-point plans and four-point programs into the background.
For the moment, the White House and the Republican National Committee are concentrating on attacking Ross Perot, apparently in the belief that cutting him down to size will help President Bush. The Democrats think so, too, so they would rather keep him healthy for awhile. A top Clinton strategist predicted, "You'll barely hear Perot's name this week."
James Squires, Mr. Perot's communications director, said succinctly: "The Democrats benefited when Bush beat up Perot. Bush would benefit if they beat up Perot.'
Ronald H. Brown, the Democratic chairman, was equally blunt: "The way this campaign is shaping up, we like. We've got George Bush and Ross Perot decapitating each other." In particular, Mr. Brown and his aides think Mr. Perot helps to put some Southern states within Mr. Clinton's reach by cutting deeply into what would otherwise be support for the President.
But many of the delegates and kibitzers here feel that the Republicans will eventually go after Mr. Clinton and probably his running mate, too.
"I wonder whether Clinton is ready for them," said Tony Coelho, the former majority whip in the House of Representatives. "He needs to be telling people, 'This is what the Republicans are going to do, this is what they're going to say.' Then when they open up on him, he can go the country and say, 'You see, I told you they'd do that to me, and it's all lies.'
"It's just basic politics. You have to inoculate yourself."
 
Controlling the Tempo
 Paul Kirk, a former Democratic chairman from Massachusetts who is closely identified with the Kennedy family, offered a similar thought.
"If Bush has nothing to say about the future, they'll go negative," he said. It may be that the electorate is so upset that it does not pay any attention, he went on, "but he needs to be ready to respond anyway, or he'll lose control of the rhythm and the direction of the campaign. He'll be talking about their attacks and their issues on their schedule. That's fatal."
On the other hand, a number of Democrats are daring to cast Mr. Clinton in the Woodrow Wilson role in what they see as a rerun of the 1912 campaign. That year, an incumbent Republican President, William Howard Taft, fought a grudge match with a third-party candidate, Theodore Roosevelt, allowing Wilson, the Democrat, to sneak into office with 42 percent.
 
No Lack of Stamina
 During the primary campaign, Mr. Clinton was rocked back on his heels by a series of charges that lasted for weeks. Many gave him up for dead, but he survived, and he eventually prospered. If the presumptive nominee showed anything this year, he showed a rare sort of political stamina.
Now, to hear people chattering in the salons and the corridors, what's needed is something more than that. They want a little inspiration.
Tapes of past conventions were shown on the C-Span cable network over the weekend, reminding a lot of Democrats at this convention of the oratorical splendors of their party's past, like Robert F. Kennedy's speech about his slain brother in Atlantic City in 1964 and Hubert H. Humphrey's call to arms in Chicago four years later.
Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey, one of last night's keynote speakers, reached all the way back to the 1930's. He sounded like Franklin D. Roosevelt attacking Herbert Hoover as he scornfully opened with an assault on the Republicans' record since 1980:
"For 12 years, I've heard our leaders say, 'Nothing can be done.' People are angry, and so am I."
Gov. Zell Miller of Georgia was the night's main exception to the "hands off Perot" rule. After savaging Mr. Bush at length in his keynote speech, Mr. Miller said, "So much for the millionaire, now on to the billionaire," and delivered a shorter indictment of Mr. Perot.
Senator Paul Simon of Illinois saw his party's challenge this way: "Bush lacks force and conviction, and the country senses it, but that's not enough. The big question is, can Clinton show, day after day, that he has what Bush lacks? Can he make himself credible in this role? It's not easy. Dukakis never managed it."
A number of party leaders hope that Mr. Clinton will emphasize his economic plan, which is considerably more detailed than anything Mr. Bush or Mr. Perot has put forward. The details are not so important, one state chairman said, "as the idea that he has a plan, and it has details."
From former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, who knows a little about convention bounces himself, there was not even a hint of over-optimism.
"I don't think we're there yet," he said. "Clinton has had a spectacular month -- good economic package, terrific Vice-Presidential selection and every sign that we're heading for an excellent convention.
"But we have a lot of work to do in the suburbs. They've turned us off for the better part of 30 years, they've gone to Nixon, they've gone to Reagan, they've gone to Bush. That's got to change if we're going to win, and the only way it'll change is if we can convince people that we're a Presidential party with a ticket of Presidential caliber they can trust."
In other words, Mr. Mondale seemed to be saying, the Democrats have to trump what Mr. Bush himself has been describing as his principal electoral assets: his and his party's experience in the Oval Office.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sometime in the last few weeks, a lot of Democrats started allowing themselves to believe that they actually had a chance to win the Presidency with Gov. Bill Clinton. Mr. Clinton spoke during a question-and-answer session yesterday at the Henry Street Settlement in lower Manhattan. (Lee Romero/The New York Times) (pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY H BROWN LTD (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FUNDRAISING (68%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (58%); JOHN DINGELL (55%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



436 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says Mexico Will Allow New Foreign Role in Finance

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13

 BODY:
As part of a push to complete a free trade agreement with Mexico and Canada within several weeks, the Bush Administration has struck a deal with Mexico to open up the banking, insurance and securities industries there to American and Canadian companies, Administration and industry officials said today.
President Bush and President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico are scheduled to discuss the overall trade agreement during an hourlong meeting on Tuesday in San Diego before the All-Star baseball game, Administration officials said. 
 The two leaders are expected to reiterate their political commitment to signing a pact as soon as possible, but they are not expected to settle specific differences on trade in energy, government procurement, agriculture, automobiles and tariff reductions, the officials said.
Except for Citibank, which got a toehold in Mexico in 1929, foreign banks are now almost entirely barred from doing business in Mexico. Insurance companies and securities firms are limited to minority stakes in joint ventures with Mexican businesses. The deal would gradually eliminate these restrictions by Jan. 1, 2000, and would allow United States banks to own insurance and securities firms in Mexico. The banks are mostly banned from these industries at home.
 
Sides Were Far Apart
 Mexico had initially wanted to phase out only some of the restrictions, and over 20 or 30 years; American financial services companies had wanted all limits removed in one year.
The compromise represents a decision by the Mexican Government that the country needs a modern financial system for its industry to be competitive in world markets, a Mexican official said. But it also makes a nod to the concerns of Mexican leftists suspicious of United States influence on their economy, because the Mexican Government would be able to impose a three-year moratorium on foreign investment if American and Canadian businesses acquire large market shares between the years 2000 and 2004.
Resolution of the financial services issue is a big step forward for the talks, which had stagnated after heavy activity last winter and spring, when differences were settled on issues like environmental protections and cross-border legal disputes. Four days of secret talks in Washington that ended on Saturday produced little headway on the remaining issues.
Of the 22 issue groups created to negotiate the free trade agreement, a dozen, including the one for financial services, have not yet produced their final legal texts.
The timetable for the deal assumes that a free-trade agreement is signed and approved by early next year, and would be postponed slightly if that schedule is missed. The deal has won quiet approval from Wall Street and commercial banks, and their lobbying could help in winning assent in Congress.
The remaining issues are among the most politically sensitive, and could prove time-consuming to resolve. For example, negotiators are arguing this summer over how fast Mexican state-owned companies will move to buy steel beams and industrial boilers from foreign capital goods companies and hire foreign construction and oil drilling companies.
 
Strength Underestimated
 The state-owned companies have traditionally reserved these contracts for politically powerful industries at home, and have been reluctant to issue them to foreigners. American and Mexican negotiators had underestimated the strength of their opposition and both sides have dug in their heels.
The White House is also still trying to figure out the politics of reaching a free trade agreement in an election year. Some Administration and campaign officials are promoting the deal on the ground that it would help the President in border states and with Hispanic voters nationwide, particularly when both the Democratic party and Ross Perot are pursuing Southern voters.
These officials want a deal before the Republican National Convention in mid-August, campaign officials say. But other influential Republicans contend that a free trade deal could cost the President vital support in Rust Belt states where workers fear the loss of factories and jobs to low-wage competition from Mexico.
"It is the blue-collar swing votes that are a big target for the Republicans this year, and we are not doing well with them this year," a Republican strategist said.
No consensus exists on the issue, and Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, has said repeatedly that she will not hurry an agreement or set deadlines for negotiators.
 
Reports Being Prepared
 Yet in recent weeks her office has quietly asked several of its private-sector advisory groups to begin preparing formal written reports on the draft texts of the agreement. Under section 135 of the 1974 Trade Act, these reports must be prepared before a trade agreement is signed.
The Administration has reached an early deal on one critical Rust Belt issue, the assembly of cars in Mexico by Japanese and European companies so as to avoid United States tariffs and possible future import restrictions. Negotiators have tentatively agreed that to qualify for duty-free treatment under the free trade agreement, cars will have to include a higher percentage of North American-made parts than under the 1988 free trade agreement between the United States and Canada.
But the United States and Mexico are still negotiating how to phase out Mexico's byzantine system of requiring a rough balance in imports and exports of cars and car parts. The current Mexican system uses a complex scoring that penalizes the import of fully assembled cars, and trade negotiators have been unable to figure out how to change this system gradually.
The broad outlines of the deal on financial services were actually struck at the end of June, but were not publicly disclosed and all of the documents were classified. Negotiators have been writing the legal text of the deal since then, and are still doing so.
Kathleen A. Lydon, a spokeswoman for Mrs. Hills, declined to comment on the deal. "Nothing's agreed until everything's agreed," she said, repeating the Administration's standard position on the negotiations.
 
Benefits Not Known
 The financial benefit to American financial services companies on the deal is hard to predict. "You have no way of knowing -- you have another stream of revenue," an industry official said.
While Canada and Mexico have reached a similar arrangement on financial services, negotiations continue over Canadian requests for partial exemptions from the United States laws that limit interstate banking and the sale of insurance and shares by banks.
The deal between the United States and Mexico on financial services would, soon after Congressional approval, allow American banks to own up to 8 percent of the capital in the Mexican banking system. American securities companies would be authorized to own 10 percent of the capital of the Mexican brokerage and investment banking industry.
The agreement would also impose initial capital limits on the subsidiaries of American investment banks that would prevent them at first from handling very large deals by themselves. These company limits would slowly rise through the rest of the century and be eliminated on Jan. 1, 2000, a financial services industry official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL SERVICES OF HAWAII INC (55%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; CANADA; UNITED STATES MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INSURANCE; STOCKS AND BONDS ; AGRICULTURE; AUTOMOBILES; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); APPROVALS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); LOBBYING (74%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); BASEBALL (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



437 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 1895 words

HEADLINE: IN THEIR OWN WORDS;
Excerpts From Addresses by Keynote Speakers at Democratic Convention

 BODY:

Bill Bradley
Senator From New Jersey
People are angry, and so am I.
For 12 years, I've seen kids kill kids in our cities and people sleep in the streets. 
 For 12 years, I've watched workers lose their jobs and government yield again and again to the special interests.
For 12 years, I've heard our leaders say, "Everything's just fine."
For too long, American leadership has waffled and wiggled and wavered.

 	 	 		. . .	 	When we look back at the last 12 years, one pattern becomes very clear: the collapse of standards. Another bank that fails; another deficit ignored; another high school graduate who can't read; another executive who bails out of a failing company with a golden parachute; another politician who lies; another politician who lies a little better; another Supreme Court Justice who's not the best we could have; another male office holder who just doesn't get it.
The evidence of this Administration's willingness to inflame the wounds that it should heal is everywhere. And the spectacle of social crises that can be seen right through the windows of the White House does not seem to trouble our leaders' sleep. They lead the most idealistic nation in history, but they are themselves without idealism. Fear, division, and the death of hope: these are the fruits of Republican rule.
Yes, our Democratic Party comes to New York with a purpose, but it's not just to win. It's to win for a reason. We come to New York to give American men and women control over their lives again. We come to New York, in the words of the great poet Langston Hughes, to "let America be America again. Let it be the dream it used to be."
There have always been two Americas, the flawed one we live in day by day and the better one we dream of when our spirits soar. For the slave who was someone out there's great great-grandparent, the dream was the promise of freedom of the North Star's beacon. For the computer operator in Trenton, N.J., or the meat packer in Omaha, Neb., listening right now warily to what we Democrats are saying this evening, the dream is his vote, the faith her vote counts, the hope her vote, well cast, can help make a better America.
For 10 years, I played basketball for the New York Knicks in this building.
The guys on the team came from a variety of places, a variety of backgrounds. We respected each other, and we were winners. We gave up our own personal agendas so the team could succeed and win. The idea of giving up something small for yourself to gain something big for all of us is not new, but putting that ancient idea into practice is the central necessity of our new age. Giving up the desire for more of everything now is the key to having more of something better in our future.

 	 	 		. . .	 	All of us can determine what America will become. Diversity is our strength, not our weakness. It offers opportunity for world leadership that is deeper than the swagger of military might or the pride of material wealth. It implies something unique and untapped. If a new woman or a new man can be formed out of the ashes of the 20th century, with all its wars and hatreds, it will be done here in America.
At another time in our history, Martin Luther King Jr. wrote from his jail cell in Birmingham, "We will have to repent in this generation not merely for the vitriolic words and actions of bad people, but for the silence of good people."
The silence of good people. Isn't that our challenge as a party and a nation -- to reach out to our fellow Americans and mobilize the good people of all races for action, action that will stop the random violence in our cities, rebuild economic opportunity and jobs for all, and provide the moral leadership worthy of our ideals? "Let America be America again. Let it be the dream it used to be."
 
Zell Miller
Governor of Georgia
I know what Dan Quayle means when he says it's best for children to have two parents.
You bet it is!
And it would be nice for them to have trust funds, too.
We can't all be born rich and handsome and lucky . . . and that's why we have a Democratic Party.
My family would still be isolated and destitute if we had not had F.D.R.'s Democratic brand of government.
I made it because Franklin Delano Roosevelt energized this nation.
I made it because Harry Truman fought for working families like mine.
I made it because John Kennedy's rising tide lifted even our tiny boat.
I made it because Lyndon Johnson showed America that people who were born poor didn't have to die poor.
And I made it because a man with whom I served in the Georgia Senate -- a man named Jimmy Carter -- brought honesty and decency and integrity to public service.
But what of the kids of today?
Who fights for the child of a single mother today? Because without a government that is on their side, those children have no hope. And when a child has no hope, a nation has no future.
I am a Democrat because we are the party of hope.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Robbed of hope, robbed of hope, the voices of anger rise up from working Americans, who are tired of paying more in taxes, getting less in services.
And George Bush doesn't get it?
Americans cannot understand why the rich can buy the best health care in the world, but all the rest of us get is rising costs and cuts in health coverage, or no health insurance at all.
And George Bush doesn't get it?
Americans cannot walk our streets in safety, because our "tough-on-crime" President has waged a phony war on drugs, posing for pictures while cutting police, prosecutors and prisons.
And George Bush doesn't get it?
Americans have seen plants closed down, jobs shipped overseas and our hopes fade away as our economic position collapses right before our very eyes.
And George Bush does not get it!
Four years ago, Mr. Bush told us he was a quiet man, who hears the voices of quiet people.
Today, we know the truth: George Bush is a timid man who hears only the voices of caution and the status quo.
Let's face facts: George Bush just doesn't get it.
He doesn't see it; he doesn't feel it, and he's done nothing about it.
That's why we cannot afford four more years.
If the "education President" gets another term, even our kids won't be able to spell potato.
If the "law and order President" gets another term the criminals will run wild, because our commander-in-chief talks like Dirty Harry, but acts like Barney Fife.
If the "environmental President" gets another term, the fish he catches off Kennebunkport will have three eyes.
And folks, after January, George Bush is going to have plenty of time to go fishing.
So much for the millionaire.
But we've still got ourselves a billionaire -- a billionaire!
He says, he says he's an outsider who will shake up the system in Washington.
But as far back as 1974 he was lobbying Congress for tax breaks. He tried to turn $55,000 in contributions into a special $15 million tax loophole that was tailor-made for him.
Sounds to me like instead of shaking the system up, Mr. Perot's been shaking it down.
Ross, Ross says he'll clean out the barn, but he's been knee deep in it for years.
If Ross Perot is an outsider, if he is an outsider, folks, I'm from Brooklyn.
Mr. Perot's giving us salesmanship, not leadership. And we're not buying it.
 
Barbara Jordan
Former Representative From Texas
Change: from what to what?
Why not change from a party with a reputation of tax and spend to one with a reputation of investment and growth. A growth economy is a must.
We can grow the economy and sustain and improve environment at the same time. When the economy is growing and we are taking care of our air and soil and water , we all prosper. And we can do all of that.
When I say something like that, I certainly do not mean the thinly disguised racism and elitism which is some kind of trickle-down economics. I'm taking about an economy where a young black woman or a young black man born in the Fifth Ward in Houston -- my town -- or South Central Los Angeles, or a young person in the colonias of the lower Rio Grande Valley, I'm talking about an economy where those persons can go to a public school, learn the skills that will enable her or him to prosper. We must have an economy that does not force that migrant worker's child to miss school for a full day so that she can work at less, at less than the minimum wage and, doing that, the family can still only afford one meal a day. That is the moral bankruptcy of trickle-down economics. Change, change, change. We can change the direction of America's economic engine and become competitive again. The American dream is not dead.
It is not dead. It is gasping for breath but it is not dead.
We can applaud that statement and know that there is no time to waste because the American dream is slipping away from too many people. It is slipping away from too many black and brown mothers and their children; the American dream is slipping away from the homeless of every color, of every sex; it's slipping away from those immigrants living in communities without water and sewage systems. The American dream is slipping away from those persons who have jobs, jobs which no longer will pay the benefits which will enable them to live and thrive because American seems to be better at building war equipment to sit in warehouses and rot than in building decent housing. It's slipping away, it's slipping away from those workers who are on indefinite layoffs while their chief executive officers are taking home bonuses which equal than the worker will ever make in 10 or 20 or 30 years.

 	 	 		. . .	 	We must frankly acknowledge our complicity in the creation of the unconscionable budget deficits, acknowledge our complicity and recognize, painful though it may be, that in order to seriously address the budget deficits, we must address the question of entitlements, also. That's not easy, but we have to do it. We have to do it, because the idea of justice between generations, that idea mandates that the baby boomers -- that's our ticket -- the baby boomers and their progeny are entitled to to a secure future. They are. However, however, if we are going to ask those who receive benefits to sacrifice, there must be equity in sacrifice. Equity in sacrifice. That idea says that we will sacrifice for growth, but that everybody must join in the sacrifice, not just a few. Equity in sacrifice means that all will sacrifice equally, equally, equally. That is, that is the person who is retired on a fixed income, the day laborer, the corporate executive, the college professor, the Member of Congress -- all must sacrifice for equity.

 	 	 		. . .	 	I close my remarks by quoting from Franklin Roosevelt's inaugural address, which he made in 1933. Franklin Roosevelt made that address to a people longing for change from the darkness and despair of the Great Depression. And this is what Roosevelt said: "In every dark hour of our national life a leadership of frankness and vigor has met with that understanding and support of the people themselves which is essential to victory." Given, given the ingredients of today's national environment, maybe, maybe -- just maybe, we Americans are poised for a second "Rendezvous with Destiny."

GRAPHIC: Photos of Bill Bradley, Zell Miller, Barbara Jordan. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (69%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (69%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); OMAHA, NE, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); ELECTION ISSUES CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); BASKETBALL (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (56%); SUPREME COURTS (53%); 

PERSON: BRADLEY, BILL (SEN); MILLER, ZELL (GOV); JORDAN, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



438 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Tokyo Journal;
Shoguns' Foe Takes a Page From Past (and Perot)

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, July 13

 BODY:
If Japanese history had taken a different turn more than a century ago, Morihiro Hosokawa, the scion of a family of feudal warlords who were always staving off more powerful shoguns in the capital, would probably be ruling over a good part of the country today.
Instead, Mr. Hosokawa is the newest and most visible political challenger in Japan in years, reveling in his role as an outspoken defector from the governing Liberal Democratic Party. 
 In the campaign that officially began on Wednesday for control of the upper house of Parliament, he has emerged as the leader of a new party with a popular theme: Tokyo wields far too much power over the rest of the country, and the time has come once again to diminish the influence of modern-day shoguns in the capital.
"Everyone knows that we have a structural conspiracy in this country among politicians, bureaucrats and businessmen," Mr. Hosokawa said the other day. "Americans know it. Japanese know it." And, he argues in the platform of the Japan New Party, that conspiracy has created a political system that has "grown moribund and out of touch with the realities of the world."
 
Many Voters Are Dissatisfied
 Such critiques of Japan's highly centralized, crony-ridden system are hardly uncommon, but until now they have come chiefly from foreigners, including many Americans. Mr. Hosokawa is an insider's insider, not only a descendant of one of the families that ruled Japan's fiefs before the restoration of the Emperor in 1868, but a former Governor of Kumamoto, the area where his family once ruled. He is also a close friend of Noboru Takeshita, the former Prime Minister who leads the governing party's largest and most powerful faction.
As a result, his attacks on Japan's entrenched bureaucracy and the country's political machine have become the most notable feature of an election campaign that, like most here, is devoid of many big issues. But whether Mr. Hosokawa will successfully tap what polls show is an enormous reservoir of discontent with the governing party is unclear.
Though 30 to 40 percent of voters often say they are dissatisfied with the political scene in Japan, most are enormously wary of displacing the leaders who for nearly four decades presided over one of the world's most remarkable economic expansions.
By all accounts, the 54-year-old Mr. Hosokawa will not make much of a dent in the Liberal Democrats' lead on July 26. But even a modestly successful showing -- 5 to 8 of the 127 seats up for election -- would make the Japan New Party, as it is officially known in English, a force that the Liberal Democrats will have to reckon with.
In the last election, three years ago, the governing party lost control of the upper house for the first time in decades. Since then the country's most powerful leaders have been forced to negotiate with smaller parties to pass any major bill that is opposed by the Socialists and the Communists.
Mr. Hosokawa expresses admiration for Ross Perot, the undeclared Presidential candidate, and seems to be following his strategy of running as an outsider with insider credentials. On Friday he said he wanted to appear on call-in shows to get his views directly to the people, in the Perot style, but there are no call-in shows in Japan, and television networks are severely restricted in how they can report campaign news. (Candidates are forbidden from buying television time.)
Mr. Hosokawa asserts that he has been the subject of relentless harassment from the Liberal Democrats since he announced in May that he would form a new party. "The L.D.P.'s attitude is that if you are not L.D.P., you are not a human being," he said.
He asserts that the governing party has asked members of Keidanren, the leading organization of big businesses and the nation's most important political contributor, to starve the new party of money. One of his candidates, he says, Yoshio Terasawa, a former top executive of Nomura Securities, was threatened in Washington recently by "a messenger from the L.D.P" who insisted that he withdraw.
Liberal Democrats say there is no harassment. But if the governing party is worried, the reason may be that Mr. Hosokawa's theme of local autonomy strikes a particularly potent emotion these days, as people outside Tokyo grow resentful of how much control bureaucrats in the capital wield over the smallest details of their lives. The arrangement seemed necessary during Japan's postwar economic growth, when the bureaucracy plotted the course of the auto and computer chip industries, and rebuilt bombed-out cities.
What led to his decision to run, Mr. Hoosokawa says, was his conclusion that the often-repeated pledges of Japan to reform itself were largely empty. Serving on a high-level Government committee last year that was exploring ways to halt Japan's endless series of financial scandals, he watched as the governing party and the Finance Ministry forced the group to drop a recommendation that would create an independent Securities and Exchange Commission. Instead, they wanted to continue regulating the ministry's supervision of the industry. "It is like letting the thieves become the judge," Mr. Hosokawa said.
 
Businesses Are Unimpressed
 But the business sector, whose support Mr. Hosokawa needs the most, is unimpressed with his vows to clean the country up. Few believe Mr. Hosokawa's beliefs are as strong as his oratory. Few want to tinker with the political stability that single-party domination has brought.
"The fact is that in Japan, if you don't have the L.D.P. you don't have anything," said Katsunosuke Maeda, who was raised in Kumamoto and is now the chief executive of Toray, a major fiber manufacturer. "To create a new party requires certain skills. Looking at the candidates that he has put together, I am not sure they have those skills."
Mr. Hosokawa's candidates are mostly political novices: a television newscaster, a popular feminist, a much-quoted economic commentator. Polls show that initial voter enthusiasm has begun to slip.
As a result, the new party could fade as quickly as it has bloomed, becoming another of the minor political groups that live on the fringes of Japan's political system, forced to form alliances with the Liberal Democrats. That depends, Mr. Hosokawa says, largely "on whether the anger of the people will explode," something that he concedes has not happened since his ancestors vied to rule parts of the country.
"I am afraid," he said somewhat ruefully, "that the anger of the Japanese public is not so strong."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Morihiro Hosokawa, the newest political challenger in Japan, leads the Japan New Party with a popular theme: Tokyo wields far too much power over the rest of the country, and the time has come to diminish the influence of modern-day shoguns in the capital. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; TOKYO (JAPAN) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES; ELECTIONS POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FAMILY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); GOVERNORS (64%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; HOSOKAWA, MORIHURO MORIHIRO HOSOKAWA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



439 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: THE OPPOSITION -- NEWS ANALYSIS;
Perot in Trouble
Internal Strife, Missed Opportunities And Missteps on Issues Stall a Drive

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, July 13

 BODY:
It started out so hopefully; a bantam unafraid to speak his mind, blowing in like a cool, clean wind from the prairie to cleanse government and the political process. But in the hot glare of the campaign, the insurgency of Ross Perot is dangerously close to unraveling.
In recent weeks, Hamilton Jordan, the co-chairman of the Perot for President Committee, has threatened to quit the campaign, frustrated because the independent-minded Texan has refused to heed his counsel. Then Mr. Perot severed his ties with Hal Riney & Partners, a widely respected advertising company, when his advisers were pushing the Texas billionaire to begin a campaign to define himself to voters. 
 Pushed by groups representing homosexuals, Mr. Perot reversed his opposition to appointing gay members of the Cabinet, making it seem that he could succumb to heat from pressure groups. But, he then fudged his position on whether he would lift the ban against homosexuals in the armed forces. Mr. Perot said theat while he was against discrimination, he would leave the final decision to his Secretary of Defense.
 
Missing an Opportunity
 And then Mr. Perot missed a golden opportunity to expand his appeal beyond the volunteer force working zealously to place him on the ballot. Rather than laying the groundwork for an effort to reach out to voters from minorities, Mr. Perot's speech on Saturday before the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People was marred by some ill-chosen words that left the impression that he lacked appreciation of black sensibilities.
"Last week was not a good week for us," said a campaign official who would speak only on the condition of not being named. "To have stories about gays and that he is insensitive toward minorities is not the way you want to leave things when you are going to be out of the public eye for a week because of the Democratic Convention."
Campaign officials are particularly worried about Mr. Perot's recent slide in the polls. As surveys show the Texan drifting down toward 25 percent, there is concern that he might reach the point where many of those seeking a change from President Bush will feel Mr. Perot is unelectable and abandon him wholesale.
Reports are swirling around Mr. Perot's campaign that the professional political consultants on his staff are increasingly frustrated over his unwillingness to take their advice.
 
Sticking to His Plan
 But as things have turned sour, Mr. Perot has stuck to his basic strategy of not being specific about issues, not using political advertising and addressing only rallies of his supporters as they submit peititions to place him on the ballot. Some of Mr. Peort's advisers feel an opportunity is being missed.
"It's like there is a wide receiver open down field, and you have a quarterback who keeps running the fullback up the middle," said the official with the campaign.
Perhaps no event more symbolizes fumbled opportunity than Mr. Perot's appearance before the N.A.A.C.P. Instead of rousing his audience with a stirring call for black economic development, which he believes in, Mr. Perot's speech was flatly delivered and devoid of specifics on issues of importance to blacks.
Worse, his remarks were sprinkled with references to "you people" and "your people," words that have traditionally offended many blacks, who feel that such terms unfairly lump all members of the race together and indicate a lack of appreciation for diversity among blacks.
 
Speech Leads to Apology
 And Mr. Perot's story of his father's giving a business card to black workers to protect them from being treated "rudely" by whites struck some in the crowd as paternalistic.
Mr. Perot, who writes his own speeches, later apologized for any unintended slight, saying in a telephone call to the Cable News Network that he "would never say anything to hurt another person, knowingly."
To be sure, the audience that Mr. Perot faced on Saturday was, no doubt, the toughest he had confronted since first expressing interest in seeking the Presidency. Of all groups, middle-aged and older blacks, who formed the backbone of the crowd and of the N.A.A.C.P., tend to be the most cool toward a Perot candidacy.
But the audience was never openly hostile, and, more importantly, his appearance gave Mr. Perot an opportunity to send a message to younger black professionals, who have in some polls exressed an interest in his insurgent movement. But much of Mr. Perot's message of economic development and rebuilding the inner cities was lost in the news reports that highlighted his verbal gaffes.
"It was a failed opportunity," said Milton Morris, vice president of the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research organization specializing in black-oriented issues. "He has had no direct contact with the black population thus far. This was his first opportunity, using about the best platform or stage he's going to have."
It was not the first time Mr. Perot's navigation of America's multicultural seas has been clumsy. When discussing aid by the United States and Japan to the former Soviet Union during a May 29 interview, Mr. Perot said: "You know the Japanese give money, and they say you have to buy Japanese products. We give money and say, 'rotsa ruck, fellow,' just buy whatever you want anywhere." This prompted a letter of protest to him from the Japanese-American Citizens League, complaining of "cheap, racial sterotypes."
But officials in the Perot campaign say it is not too late for things to turn around. The say that commercials should begin running soon after the Democratic Convention. They chalk up the mistakes to Mr. Perot's being a neophyte politician who is trying to change the system. But they also feel that to really change things, he must first win, and to do that, he must learn the traditional ropes.
"He initially thought this was going to be totally different," said the campaign official. "He was not going to play by the rules and was having great fun. As long as we were doing well in the polls, it didn't matter. But he's learning that if you're going to play the game, you're going to have to play by the rules."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Perot addressing delegates of the N.A.A.C.P. on Saturday in Nashville, where the undeclared Presidential candidate delivered a speech he described as "straight from my heart." (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: HAL RINEY & PARTNERS INC (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); RACE & RACISM (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); ATHLETES (61%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; PEROT, ROSS GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



440 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: ISSUES AND INTERESTS -- ON THE SIDELINES;
Dukakis Views Clinton as G.O.P.'s Worst Nightmare

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, July 9

 BODY:
What is Michael S. Dukakis doing these days? "Mike Dukakis is growing tomatoes, of course," the 1988 Democratic Presidential candidate said, gently mocking his once well-chronicled penchant for gardening.
As Mr. Dukakis spoke, he was sitting in his cramped office in a converted industrial building at Northeastern University. With his opponent of four years ago, George Bush, in the White House, and the man who nominated him, Gov. Bill Clinton, ready to accept the Democratic mantle in New York, Mr. Dukakis is teaching political science at this working-class institution that is usually overshadowed by its neighbors, Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
 Now 58 years old, the former Governor of Massachusetts still looks the same as he did in 1988. But now he shares two secretaries with 24 other professors. His book-lined study overlooks a parking lot on the edge of Roxbury, a poor and predominantly black section of Boston. And he has traded his dark suits for standard academic garb: rumpled chinos, sneakers and a tieless shirt.
 
Enthusiastic About Clinton
 But despite his rapid fall from grace -- he and his wife, Kitty, have only a ceremonial role at the Democratic National Convention -- Mr. Dukakis retains much of his characteristic optimism.
"Bill Clinton will be a terrific candidate," he said, adding that the Arkansas Governor will win the election in November over President Bush and Ross Perot.
Mr. Dukakis bases his assessment in part on his 15-year friendship with Mr. Clinton as a fellow Democratic Governor, a man who, like Mr. Dukakis, was defeated after his first term and engineered a comeback.
"Clinton has always been the Republicans' worst nightmare: a tough, smart, progressive Southerner," Mr. Dukakis said.
 
Sees Bush Foundering
 Mr. Dukakis does not hide the pleasure he takes in the President's predicament today. "Poor old Bush, he can't seem to come to grips with things," he said, speaking with as much bitterness as his carefully controlled temperament allows.
The last four years have been difficult for Mr. Dukakis. After his failed Presidential bid, he returned to Boston as Governor, only to watch his prized Massachusetts economy tumble, undercutting tax revenues and throwing the state's budget into chaos. By the time his term ended in 1991, Mr. Dukakis had become everyone's favorite whipping boy. He went as far away as he could get, first to Australia and then to Hawaii to teach.
In recent months, he has devoted much of his time to researching and writing about universal health care, an issue to which he devoted extensive effort as Governor. Having observed former President Jimmy Carter's political rehabilitation, Mr. Dukakis said, he has concluded that a defeated nominee should devote himself to one or two substantive issues.
Mrs. Dukakis, who struggled with alcoholism after her husband's defeat, has been taking a course on addiction counseling at the University of Massachusetts in Boston and is considering work with drug and alcohol addicts.
 
Behind-the-Scenes Role
 The Dukakises plan to arrive in New York on Wednesday for the final two days of the convention. Mr. Dukakis said that he and other former Presidential nominees would be recognized at some point, but that he would not make a speech.
He said that he talks with Mr. Clinton on the phone from time to time and that he has sent out warnings about moving fast to rebut negative campaigning. "The most effective way to deal with a negative campaign is to turn it into a character issue on the guy who is doing it," Mr. Dukakis said.
So when Vice President Dan Quayle or Mr. Bush begin to talk about family values, he said: "I'd stick it up their ears. I'd tell the American people what they know -- that family values are the security of having a good job or being able to take the kids to the doctor without wondering if you can pay for it."
But over all, Mr. Dukakis said, he has been chary about offering Mr. Clinton advice.
"Look, if I knew anything about this business, I'd be talking to you from the Oval Office," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (70%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (58%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (58%); NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1988 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); BUDGETS (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; DUKAKIS, MICHAEL S; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



441 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: Rhode Island Banker Is Indicted in '91 Crisis

 BODY:
Joseph Mollicone Jr., the bank president accused of triggering Rhode Island's banking crisis, was indicted yesterday on 47 counts of embezzlement, bank fraud and conspiracy.
The indictment, which charged Mr. Mollicone with embezzling $15.8 million from the bank he headed until he disappeared last Nov. 8, was the result of a 19-month state grand jury investigation. It clears the way for the state to bring its case against Mr. Mollicone to trial, said James E. O'Neil, the Attorney General of Rhode Island, in a telephone interview. 
 Mr. Mollicone could be sentenced up to 920 years in jail and fined $920,000 if he is found guilty of all 47 charges. He will be arraigned on July 22.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;RHODE ISLAND UNITED STATES (95%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; DEPOSIT INSURANCE; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; EMBEZZLEMENT EMBEZZLEMENT (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (88%); INTERVIEWS (88%); GRAND JURY (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (88%); SENTENCING (86%); INSURANCE FRAUD (85%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (84%); JAIL SENTENCING (84%); CRIMINAL FINES (82%); INSURANCE (59%); 

PERSON: MOLLICONE, JOSEPH JR JOSEPH MOLLICONE JR (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



442 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Joyful Mood at Black Catholic Meeting

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS

 BODY:
More than 1,000 representatives of the nation's two million black Roman Catholics asserted their African roots last weekend in a meeting devoted to the needs of black families and to problems confronting young black men.
From the African drum rhythms at the Mass that opened the congress on Thursday night to the applause and amens that interrupted the major speeches over the weekend, a joyful mood marked the seventh National Black Catholic Congress in New Orleans, overcoming the grim realities of broken families, unemployment, poverty, drug abuse and teen-age homicide that the delegates discussed in workshops and caucuses. 
 Wilton D. Gregory, an auxiliary bishop in Chicago and one of the nation's 11 black Catholic bishops, said the black family was more than a formal topic at the congress. "What is being experienced here is the family spirit of the African-American community," he said. "It is like a big family reunion, with feelings of love, hope, disappointment, longing, shared frustrations."
The delegates endorsed a range of social programs and policy changes including increases in the minimum wage, universal health insurance, lifelong job training, updated standards for defining poverty and "Afrocentric" curriculums in both public and Catholic schools.
They also drew up a long list of proposals for parishes, dioceses and organizations to strengthen black families, offer leadership roles to black Catholics and help black adolescents by providing mentors.
And the delegates approved a last-minute proposal from black priests asking the group that organized the congress to conduct a study on establishing "an African-American rite," a step that might encompass everything from a distinctly African-American form of worship to a separate jurisdiction, under the Pope, of black American bishops, dioceses and parishes. Such a move would ultimately have to be approved by the Vatican, which recognizes 17 distinct rites within the church.
 
A Century's Pause
 Five national congresses of black Catholics were held from 1889 to 1894, but almost a century passed before the sixth one, held in Washington in 1987.
The first congresses were a major achievement for a small group of believers -- perhaps 200,000 people -- who saw Catholicism as a force for racial justice despite the segregation and neglect they experienced in a church preoccupied with a flood of European immigrants.
Today 1 out of every 25 American Catholics is black. Over 1,000 of the nation's 20,000 Catholic parishes have predominantly black congregations, and there are 11 black bishops. One measure of the group's growing significance was that all six American cardinals and 85 other bishops, almost one-third of the American hierarchy, attended the congress.
 
Changes in Five Years
 New emphases on African identity and on public policy distinguished the recent congress from the one five years ago, delegates said. "In five years, we went from being black to being African-American," one said.
Many of the speeches and workshops invoked the strengths of the African extended family and the spiritual dimension of African culture. References to the Ibo, Yoruba, Ashanti and other African peoples came more frequently than references to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. And even many of the white clergymen and lay Catholics who were observers at the meeting wore a bit of the striped African cloth known as kente.
As for the new attention paid to public policy matters, Joseph A. Francis, Auxiliary Bishop of Newark, said, "We realized you simply cannot look internally so much of the time."
But internal church concerns were not absent, as indicated by the call for exploring the possibility of a separate black American rite. Delegates, some of whom could remember when Catholic schools were segregated, when black parishioners in the South could not receive Communion until whites had done so and when there were no black Catholic bishops, hailed changes but also voiced continuing frustrations.
"The church isn't responsive to black needs," said Laura Mae Turner, a retired city worker from Syracuse. "There are many black people in our parish, but it is not much reflected in the liturgy. It is good to be among all my people here because when I go to church in Syracuse, I don't see myself reflected on the altar."
To attend the congress, delegates had to take part in extensive training and were required to pledge to work for two more years trying to put the group's recommendations to work in their local dioceses and parishes.
"We went home and floundered a bit" after the last congress, Bishop Francis said, although one development was the establishment of special offices dealing with black Catholic concerns in over 100 of the country's 197 dioceses.
Asked about the heavy emphasis on African identity at the congress, Bishop Gregory said: "I'm delighted. It bespeaks a maturity and a kind of shared journey that we are all involved in."
But he added that "every journey into the unknown has its own risks and perils" and said some debates were inevitable.
The bishop, who heads the committee on liturgy of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, expressed reservations about a black American rite. "When people hear 'rite,' they think it only refers to forms of worship, but a rite is much more complex," he said, possibly involving its own language or code of church law.
Those calling for a new rite, he said, may be "proceeding on a very delicate question without understanding all the intricacies."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "What is being experienced here is the family spirit of the African-American community," said Bishop Wilton D. Gregory, right, of a meeting in New Orleans last weekend of more than 1,000 of the nation's black Roman Catholics. He sat with Adrienne Curry, a delegate, during sessions on Sunday. (Matt Anderson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH NATIONAL BLACK CATHOLIC CONGRESS (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH NATIONAL BLACK CATHOLIC CONGRESS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); RELIGION (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FAMILY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (72%); CURRICULA (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); APPROVALS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (55%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER; GREGORY, WILTON D (BISHOP) JOSEPH A FRANCIS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



443 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 2; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: ISSUES AND INTERESTS -- TWO VOICES;
Speaking as One in Search of a Constituency to Combat AIDS

BYLINE: By JEFFREY SCHMALZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 10

 BODY:
They are at once very similar and very different -- a well-to-do mother in her spacious home near the ocean, packing her 7-year-old son off to summer camp with a peck on the cheek; a gay environmental advocate, punctuating each sentence with "cool, that's cool" as he shouts into the phone in his cluttered, cramped downtown office here.
Together they will be the voice of AIDS on Tuesday night, the first people who are open about having the disease to address a national political convention. 
 "My daughter did not survive the Reagan Administration," said Elizabeth Glaser, whose daughter, Ariel, died of AIDS in 1988 at the age of 7. Both Mrs. Glaser and her son, Jake, are also infected with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, which she got in a blood transfusion and passed on to her children.
"I want people to understand that the life and death of my family hinges on who the next President is," she said. "It hinges on government leading the way, on more money for drug trials and research, for vaccine development."
Bob Hattoy, a gay environmentalist who will speak at the Democratic National Convention immediately before Mrs. Glaser, put it this way: "I want to say, 'Mr. President, your family, the family of America, has AIDS, and you're not doing anything about it. Because of that, people are dying, and it's your fault.' "
Those are tough words from people who at times seem tough and at other times wounded and scared. Occasionally, in separate chats, each seemed almost icy, talking about life and death matter-of-factly. Theirs is an AIDS world of resignation where, as the writer Paul Monette described it, the cup is neither half empty nor half full, just half. One minute they were impassioned fighters, the next reasoned lobbyists. Their emotions welled up from time to time, Mrs. Glaser asking for a tissue to wipe her eyes, Mr. Hattoy blurting out, "I think I will probably die of AIDS."
With her shorts, white sneakers, blond-gray hair and bouncy walk, Mrs. Glaser, at 44, looks the aging chearleader. She is by far the better known of the two speakers. She made AIDS a cause after the death of Ariel, for whom such potentially life-saving drugs as AZT were long denied because so little had been studied about children with AIDS.
Drawing on connections made through her husband, Paul Michael Glaser, a director and formerly Starsky of the "Starsky and Hutch" television series, she helped found the Pediatric AIDS Foundation, which has raised $13 million for research, much of it for the Ariel Project, which is searching for ways to block transmission of AIDS from a mother to her fetus. Ariel got the virus through breast milk, Jake in the womb.
 
The Words Inside Her
 But the mood in her living room in Santa Monica is of life, not death. Jake's teepee sticks up in the backyard. The family dog, Georgie, pokes about in the living room. Regardless of whether she was a speaker, Mrs. Glaser would be at the convention anyway, as a Clinton delegate. AIDS, she said, is merely a metaphor for Republican failures. She laughs when told that she gives a more passionate Clinton speech than Gov. Bill Clinton himself.
"I think it's because he's a Southerner, and I'm a New Yorker," said Mrs. Glaser, who grew up in Hewlett Harbor, L.I. She was chosen to speak after confronting Mr. Clinton's campaign chairman, Mickey Kantor, at a Los Angeles picnic, saying, "I have words inside me that I have to share."
Mrs. Glaser has never met the Arkansas Governor. Mr. Hattoy, on the other hand, is part of the Clinton political family. A longtime environmental advocate, he joined the campaign at the beginning of the year, traveling from primary to primary. It was during the primary campaign in Oregon that he noticed a lump under his arm. It turned out he had AIDS-related lymphoma.
 
He's Not Dead Yet
 Shortly afterward, Mr. Hattoy -- who seems younger than his 40 years, with a teen-ager's gangly look about him and a campy humor -- met with Mr. Clinton in Los Angeles. "We sat in his room and talked and got all weepy and teary," Mr. Hattoy said. "He said, 'What can we do for you?' I said, 'Don't treat me like I'm dead.' "
He continues to serve as an issues adviser, but was uncomfortable about speaking at the convention: "I said, 'I'm not sure I should do it; maybe it should be a black or a woman.' Bill said: 'Of course you should do it. You've got AIDS. You're close to Hillary and me.' My friends said: 'Do it. It's important a gay man do it.' So I'm doing it."
The issue of whether Mr. Hattoy and Mrs. Glaser represent the true face of AIDS is a touchy one.
"She's a celebrity, and he's a campaign worker," said Thomas B. Stoddard, a New York gay rights leader. "It's a false image of AIDS. It's a mistake not to have a person of color. These people are well-to-do with access to the best health care. The true nature of H.I.V. is the lack of basic health care that tens of thousands of individuals must confront by nature of poverty and other conditions."
Mrs. Glaser argued that she and Mr. Hattoy were as good a choice as any. "In some ways I'm with the haves and some with the have-nots," she said. "I have one foot in economic stability, a two-parent family, an ability to have support systems. But having all that did not save my daughter. And it's not going to save my son."
Implicit in the comments by the two speakers is a faith in medicine, a belief that with enough money and effort, AIDS can be cured or made manageable, like diabetes.
"I want to believe it's possible," Mrs. Glaser said. "I'm not asking for a guarantee that I will live. What is unacceptable is if people die because we didn't care enough to at least try."
The speeches are to begin around 8 or 8:30 P.M., but the networks are not scheduled to start live coverage until later. "None of what I dream about is going to happen as a result of my speech," Mr. Hattoy said. "George Bush will be fishing. Most of America will get up and get a beer. And I'll still have AIDS."

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of two people with AIDS who is to address the Democratic National Convention tonight is Elizabeth Glaser, left. She and her son, Jake, are both infected with H.I.V., and her daughter, Ariel, died of AIDS in 1988 at the age of 7. Bob Hattoy, right, a gay environmentalist, is also scheduled to speak. (Photographs by Eduardo Citrinblum for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); ELECTION ISSUES AIDS & HIV (95%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); BREASTFEEDING (78%); LOBBYING (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); VIRUSES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); VACCINES (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (66%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (53%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMALZ, JEFFREY; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; GLASER, ELIZABETH; HATTOY, BOB RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



444 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: After State Cutbacks, What One Theater Is Doing to Survive

BYLINE: By WILLIAM H. HONAN

 BODY:
One morning last July, Miriam Colon, the diminutive, intense founding director of the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater, opened her mail and thought she would faint. A letter from Gov. Mario M. Cuomo said the state contribution to the bilingual theater Ms. Colon had nurtured for nearly a quarter of a century would be cut by $36,000.
"I went limp; I went numb; I went dizzy," said Ms. Colon, a former actress who supplements her vocabulary with emphatic gestures. "But soon my mind was racing a mile a minute trying to figure out how we're going to fill the void." 
 The void, she soon discovered, went even deeper. The country's economic slump was also affecting her corporate and private supporters, who were cutting their contributions, too. All told, the theater's $650,000 annual operating budget was coming up nearly $100,000 short.
 
Trading on Credibility
 After the shock sank in, Ms. Colon began to search for ways to replace the lost revenue. Eventually, she hit upon the idea of trading on the theater's credibility with Hispanic audiences for support from corporations hoping to do business with that growing segment of the population. It would not hurt a company that wanted to sell life insurance or toothpaste to the Hispanic residents of the New York area to become a visible supporter of the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater, said Ms. Colon, who was born in Puerto Rico. Whatever money the corporation spent in this way could be justified as advertising and promotion rather than as a donation, she said.
By April, these and other efforts had proved successful enough for Ms. Colon to open the theater's 25th anniversary season, with a production of "The Oxcart," Rene Marques's play about the misadventures of a family of rural Puerto Ricans who move to New York City: an unintended paradigm for what this theater itself had experienced. The production was wellreceived by critics and general audiences.
The company's second production, a new comedy with music by Eugene Rodriguez called "Mambo Louie and the Dancing Machine," is in rehearsal and is to open on July 22 at the company's theater, at 304 West 47th Street on the West Side of Manhattan.
 
Free on the Streets
 After a two-week run, "Mambo Louie," as with all Puerto Rican Traveling Theater productions, will be performed free on the streets of New York, in this case through August.
There is still a third production of the season to be financed, and Ms. Colon said the other day that she needed to raise about $75,000 before autumn for the company to complete its season. She also said her struggles to scare up money and the need to lay off valued staff members had made 1992 "the worst year of my life." Still, her success so far is an example of how arts organizations, staggered by the loss of government, corporate and private support during the last two years of recession, may yet find ways to survive.
In general, Ms. Colon said she learned two basic lessons. The first is that a dependence on government support is a snare and a delusion for arts organizations. "I'm not saying the government shouldn't support us," she said. "They should. We are just as entitled to that money as the people who build roads. But we must not count on it. Through no fault of our own, it can vanish."
The second lesson, she said, is about the need to forge links with the business world based on common interests, a challenge to which she has risen with extraordinary results.
 
'Never in Such Desperation'
 Soon after receiving Governor Cuomo's letter, Ms. Colon sat down with Philip Langer, the theater's development director, and leafed through the Foundation Directory, whose current volume lists the names and basic data on more than 5,000 charitable foundations in the United States. They selected a group of almost 200 institutions that might be persuaded to support the company, and Ms. Colon drafted an urgent appeal.
"We had solicited many of these foundations before," she said, "but never in such desperation and anguish."
Four percent of the recipients responded favorably, Mr. Langer said, including such new supporters as the Anheuser-Busch Companies, the Panasonic Company, the Prudential Foundation and the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
Anheuser-Busch not only contributed $1,000, but one of its executives, Luis Gonzalez, together with Joseph Wiscovitch, a public-relations agent who specializes in the Hispanic market, also secured the agreement of Raul Julia to give a performance of "Man of La Mancha" as a benefit for the Puerto Rican theater. Mr. Wiscovitch said he knew that Mr. Julia had appeared with Ms. Colon in a production of "The Oxcart" 25 years ago at the Greenwich Mews Theater in the West Village, and had been a friend and supporter of Ms. Colon ever since.
Anheuser-Busch bought 400 tickets for the performance on June 2 and helped sell them for $200 each. The theater raised about about $47,000 from the benefit, Ms. Colon said.
Response to the appeal was weak otherwise. On one hand, Con Edison, a previous sponsor, increased its grant to $7,500 from $5,000. But Citibank, also a longtime supporter, said it was overcommitted and would have to say no for now.
"The favorable responses didn't come in a rush," Ms. Colon said. "They trickled in, one at a time."
Ms. Colon also wrote a direct appeal to 35,000 current and past ticket buyers whose names had been collected over the years.
Mayor David N. Dinkins responded with a personal check for $1,000, but otherwise there was just a trickle of donations, from $10 to $150 each. All told, these added up to only $8,000.
Ms. Colon got bolder. Among other things, she began to visit Hispanic business leaders to plead her cause in person. She persuaded Dennis Rivera, the president of Local 1199 of the Drug, Hospital and Health Care Employees Union, which has a 45 percent Hispanic membership, to cover the cost of mailing 30,000 letters to announce the opening of the theater's 25th anniversary season. He also promised to hold a breakfast for Ms. Colon with a group of union leaders to discuss ways to interest union members in attending this theater.
Most beneficial was a luncheon on March 25 by the Avon Products Foundation at its executive dining room in mid-Manhattan. The object was to introduce Ms. Colon and her top staff members to representatives of a dozen major corporations seeking to gain access to the Hispanic market.
Speaking to representatives of Bristol-Myers Squibb, McGraw-Hill, Republic National Bank, New York National Bank and others, Ms. Colon said: "We have had a good association with this community for 25 years. We have educated their children, kept up their pride and their uniqueness and given the Puerto Rican and Hispanic people a positive image of themselves. You can share in that by becoming one of our sponsors."
The first result was a $15,000, three-year grant from Bristol-Myers Squibb. Next, Serafin Mariel, the president of the New York National Bank, which has its headquarters in Hunts Point, the Bronx, agreed to serve on a committee to review the theater's financial plan for the future. Ms. Colon said she and her staff members were continuing a round of visits to the executives they met at the Avon luncheon.
 
'Speaks From the Heart'
 "We support the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater as a way of investing in the community that has made us No. 1 in the Hispanic market," said Ralph Casanova, the manager of special markets for the Northeast region of Anheuser-Busch.
Mr. Wiscovitch said of Ms. Colon: "She's a great actor, but she speaks from the heart. She overwhelms people, and they can't say no."
As the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater prepares for its second production of the season, Ms. Colon said she was "cautiously optimistic but still nervous" about the company's status.
"The day I relax," she said, "is when we are out of debt and have a reserve."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Miriam Colon, who overcame financing cutbacks to open the 25th season of the Puerto Rican Traveling Theater. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (57%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PUERTO RICAN TRAVELING THEATER ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUERTO RICAN TRAVELING THEATER

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; FINANCES THEATER (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DANCE (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%); LIFE INSURANCE (51%); 

PERSON: HONAN, WILLIAM H; COLON, MIRIAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



445 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Behind the Old Boxer's Dark Shades

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW

 BODY:
IT was Monday morning, five days after the savage fight. The former champ was wearing dark glasses as he slid into the booth of the coffee shop in the Bronx, where he was born and raised and where, after traveling and boxing around the world for 23 years, sometimes followed by adoring crowds, he still lives, in a modest apartment.
When the companion he met at breakfast asked to see the left eye, the one that had absorbed such a beating, the former champ removed the shades. The eye was still a little closed and very much black and blue, looking like a terrible tattoo. 
 "The scars of a warrior," the fighter said, smiling somewhat.
This was Saoul Mamby, who held the world junior welterweight title for two and a half years, from 1980 to 1982, and who, at age 45, is the oldest active fighter in the world. One might have to qualify the word active, though, because he has lost six straight fights, including one last Wednesday, a unanimous six-round decision, in a preliminary to the World Television Champions II pay-per-view tournament. Mamby was beaten by one Charlie (White Lightning) Brown, a fighter who, at 27 -- Mamby referred to him as "the kid" -- is just 4 years older than Mamby's daughter, Yvette.
"I know I didn't look good," Mamby said. "But I only had three days to train. They called me up and said, 'Mamby, we need you to fight.' Well, I didn't want to get thrown out of the tournament, and so I fought."'
Once, Mamby was known as a great ring technician, someone with the beautiful skills of a boxing artist. "His reflexes are shot," one of the television promoters said. "He was a ghost of himself -- not even that."
After the fight, Mamby's trainer, Don Turner, told him he should hang up his gloves. So did Don Elbaum, a promoter of the fight. "But I can still fight given the right training," he said. "And I'd like to go out a winner. I'd like one more shot at a title. Look at George Foreman -- he's 44 -- and Larry Holmes -- he's 43. They've fought for titles."
He says he understands the risks. "You see a guy like Ali who's taken too many blows to the head, and it's tragic," said Mamby. "But I'm a boxer. I know how to avoid getting hit."
That wasn't the case last Wednesday, in a surreal, if not bizarre setting. Six live fights were held in the Supper Club, a restaurant and night club on West 47th Street in Manhattan. A boxing ring, illuminated by the bright TV lights, was set down amid the tables. While people punched each other and drew blood, the clientele watched and ate dinner. Those at ringside might not have been surprised to find a mouthpiece land in their salmon, or have their marinara sauce turn a brighter red.
"My God, when you're up this close you realize how vicious fighting is," said a patron. "When you watch it on television, it just looks like a dance."
"It's a brutal sport, but it's a brutal society," said Mamby. "People don't come to a fight to see nice boxing. They come to see someone knocked out. They come lusting for blood."
It had been a long night Wednesday night for Mamby, longer even than the six rounds, which, for an ex-champion, is a comedown from his usual 10 and 12-round bouts. He had spent five hours in the room there trying to get his money in cash, and not a check that would have to be deposited.
"The whole night was degrading," he said. "But this was really embarrassing." Not only, as he said, having to "scrounge" for the money, but the money itself: $1,500. It was a long, long way from his best purse, $370,000, when he outpointed Thomas Americo in Jakarta, Indonesia, in 1981 to retain his title.
Why does he keep fighting? To keep hearing the roar of the crowd? Or is it the money? "It's what I know, it's what I've done well," he said.
And the money? "There's a saying. 'If you have a million, you want another million.' I've made a million. But I got ripped off by a lot of people. When I won that $370,000, for instance, I kept only about $135,000."
Between fights in recent years he has worked as a cab driver and a chauffeur. "Right now," he said, "I'm like most of them out there. I'm unemployed."
In the next week or two, the New York State Athletic Commission will suspend Mamby. It has a rule that after six straight losses, there is an automatic suspension.
It is easy to be moralistic and say that boxing is disgusting and someone like Mamby should never fight again. Of course he shouldn't -- for his health, and for our sense of propriety. But in the end, the whole brutal business of boxing says less about Mamby than it does about the rest of us.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Saoul Mamby (Wilbur Funches)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: BOXING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BOXING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); PAY PER VIEW (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); 

PERSON: BERKOW, IRA; MAMBY, SAOUL SAOUL MAMBY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



446 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
AN ENDORSEMENT OF PEROT DRAWS FIRE
Three days after endorsing Ross Perot for President, the Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d, pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, has come under fire from some local black political leaders who expressed dismay over the minister's choice of candidate, following Mr. Perot's reference to blacks as "you people" in a speech last week. B3.
 
 A MAYORAL CONFIDANT WHO IS MUCH MORE
Wherever Mayor Dinkins goes, Arnie Segarra is never far behind. He is often seen whispering in the Mayor's ear, shepherding him through crowds, carrying his belongings or just standing in the background watching over the city's chief executive. Mr. Segarra is perhaps the Mayor's most trusted confidant. B3.
 
 WANTED: BILINGUAL GOVERNMENT WORKERS
As more and more immigrants from many different countries settle in New York City, city agencies are taking steps to prevent the Babel of languages filling their offices from paralyzing their work. They are hiring bilingual staff and interpreters, translating forms and pamphlets into a jumble of languages and teaching their employees to be more sensitive to people who do not speak English. B8.
 
 TRIAL OPENS IN CASE OF RIGGED BRIEFCASE
A Federal prosecutor known for her toughness in pressing drug cases received a booby-trapped briefcase in the mail as a "gift of death," a Federal jury in Brooklyn was told. The statement came in opening statements as David Kwong, a Queens man described as a drug informer, went on trial for attempted murder, accused of sending the briefcase to the prosecutor, Catherine E. Palmer, in 1990. B3.
 
 REGION
 
 TRENTON G.O.P.
 IS CHALLENGED
Blaming what he called "right-wing extremists" within the Republican Party, the New Jersey State Senate Democratic leader, John A. Lynch, accused the Republican legislative majority of trying to undermine the State Constitution. During a half-hour news conference, Mr. Lynch made a partisan attack on the Republicans, charging that if they succeeded in amending the Constitution it would create two separate New Jerseys divided along geographic and economic lines. B6.
 
 PAYING MORE FOR CLEANER CLAMS
Gambling on the public's willingness to pay a bit more for clams that are cleaned, a Long Island entrepreneur is planning to open a depuration plant, New York's first in more than a decade. There are only a handful of such plants in the country, and only three in the Northeast, one of which has been owned and operated by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts since 1925. B6.
 
 PRAISE FOR TRENTON'S RECORD
Refineries, crowded highways and hundreds of toxic sites may rank New Jersey among the most polluted states in the country, but a new survey finds the Garden State is No. 1 in dealing with environmental problems. B6.
 
 AU PAIR CASE PROMPTS CRIME TASK FORCE
A week after a Swiss au pair was acquitted of killing the infant in her care, Westchester law-enforcement officials said that they were forming a group to look at the way major crime investigations in the county were handled. During the trial of Olivia Riner, her lawyer repeatedly raised questions about how the Police Department in Mount Pleasant investigated the fire that killed 3-month-old Kristie Fischer. B5.
 
 Chronicle B18
 Our Towns by Josh Barbanel B6

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Business Activity" shows seasonally adjusted New York State Business Activity Index for month of April, 1985-1992. (Source: New York State Department of Economic Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); NEW JERSEY STATE SENATE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); NEW JERSEY STATE SENATE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JURY TRIALS (71%); MURDER (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: ROSS PEROT (76%); JOHN A LYNCH (60%); ARNIE SEGARRA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



447 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
Mexico agreed to allow American and Canadian companies to enter its banking, insurance and securities industries, under a deal struck by the Bush Administration to complete a North American free trade agreement. [Page A1.]
Advanced Micro Devices and Japan's Fujitsu announced a $700 million joint venture to develop, build and market flash memory chips, one of the fastest growing products in the industry. [D1.] 
 I.B.M. said global strategies are needed, not Fortress America policies, to ensure corporate survival in today's world. It announced an alliance with Toshiba and Siemens [D1.]
 
Markets
A handful of stocks have plunged 40 to 50 percent this month, when the Dow average has slipped only a fraction of a percent, reflecting investor skittishness, often over earnings. [D1.]
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 6.75 points to 3,337.31, but volume shrank to 148.8 million shares, reflecting traders' caution as second-quarter earnings reports began. [D8.]
Prices of Treasury securities dipped and long-term interest rates moved a bit higher. [D17.]
Corn futures prices sagged and wheat futures rallied in response to rain in the Midwest. [D18.] The dollar closed down slightly and gold rose a bit in slow trading. [D18.]
 
Companies
Fox Inc. named Van Gordon Sauter, former CBS News president, as president of its new Fox News division. [C16.]
Chrysler announced prices of $17,500 to $22,500 for its important new L/H line of midsized sedans, the Dodge Intrepid, Eagle Vision and Chryslter Concorde. [D4.]
Four of the nation's largest banks reported higher second-quarter earnings, helped by lower interest rates. J.P. Morgan was up 66.7 percent; Chase Manhattan, 15.2 percent; First Chicago, 19 percent, and Barnett Banks, 85.3 percent. [D4.]
HSBC Holdings sold its 10 percent stake in Cathay Pacific Airways for $435 million to China National Aviation. Analysts said the sale by the parent of Hongkong and Shanghai Banking and Marine Midland Banks of Buffalo was probably made to cover its lending to Olympia & York. [D5.]
An $800 million bailout proposal for defunct Mutual Benefit Life Insurance was announced by a group of insurers led by Prudential and Metropolitan Life. Policyholders would be covered in full. [D4.]
Ross Cosmetics placed its chairman on leave pending a probe of the company's ownership and accounting practices. [D5.]
Six asbestos companies were found negligent by a jury deciding personal injury claims. They are GAF, Keene, Pittsburgh Corning, AC&S, MCIC and Porter-Hayden. [D5.]
 
Today's Columns
A corps of company managers is emerging in Russia, behaving like Western management -- and almost like owners. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
Moran Asset Management said it would vote against Sprint's acquisition of Centel and would urge others to do the same, fueling the shareholder revoted against Centel. Market Place. [D8.]
Ads in this election year are much edgier than in past years, addressing political affairs, and the politicians themselves, with a cocky, often sarcastic, somewhat alienated attitude. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D15.] The November Company, the firm founded by Madison Avenue executives for the Bush-Quayle campaign, plans to buy ads on programs reflecting good taste and moral values. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FUJ (LSE) (72%); 6702 (TSE) (72%); HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 0005 (HKSE) (58%); AMD (NYSE) (58%); AMD (FRA) (58%); SIN (SWX) (57%); SIE (LSE) (57%); SIE (FRA) (57%); SIE (BIT) (57%); SI (NYSE) (57%); TOS (LSE) (57%); 6502 (TSE) (57%); 0293 (HKSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); HONG KONG (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); EAST CHINA (53%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (67%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); FOX INC (82%); FUJITSU LTD (72%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (58%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (58%); SIEMENS AG (57%); TOSHIBA CORP (57%); CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD (53%); MUTUAL BENEFIT LIFE INSURANCE CO (52%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); HONG KONG (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%); MIDWEST USA (79%); EAST CHINA (53%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FUTURES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); INSURANCE (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); WHEAT MARKETS (77%); JOINT VENTURES (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); SEDANS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COSMETICS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); CORN MARKETS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); TOXIC TORTS (63%); NEGLIGENCE (63%); PERSONAL INJURY (60%); MEMORY CHIPS (57%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (57%); BAILOUTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



448 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: This Man Whispers in Dinkins's Ear (a Lot)

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS

 BODY:
At first glance, they are a most unlikely pair: the proper, tennis-playing grandfather and the hip bachelor whose name often comes up in the gossip columns as he escorts famous actresses around town.
The grandfather is the Mayor, David N. Dinkins, and the sidekick is Arnaldo Segarra, a longtime friend whose constant attention to the Mayor has made him one of the most recognizable figures at City Hall. Although few people know his name or exactly what he does, Mr. Segarra is perhaps the Mayor's most trusted confidant. When the chips are down, it is Mr. Segarra whom the Mayor ultimately turns to for counsel and moral support, aides to Mr. Dinkins said. 
"A lot of people think that Arnie is a flunky, a toady or just another bodyguard, but he's so much more than that," said Betsy Gotbaum, the city's Parks Commissioner. "Arnie is the protector of the Mayor. He is both savvy and street smart. He steers the Mayor away from people who would do him wrong."
Wherever Mr. Dinkins goes, Mr. Segarra, or Arnie as he is better known, is never far behind. He is often seen whispering in the Mayor's ear, shepherding him through crowds, carrying his belongings, getting him a drink of water or just standing in the background watching over the city's chief executive.
 
'But What Do You Do?'
 So common is it to see Mr. Segarra with the Mayor on television or in newspaper photographs that many people mistake the tall, urbane Puerto Rican man for a bodyguard or top city official. "Who are you?" a woman asked Mr. Segarra at a recent event at the Waldorf-Astoria where Mr. Dinkins was speaking. "I always see you with the Mayor, but what do you do?"
Mr. Segarra's official title is director of the Mayor's advance team -- a $47,588-a-year job that largely involves scheduling the Mayor's public appearances and making sure the events run smoothly. But Mr. Segarra's true role is much more vital: while he does not have the rank or influence of, say, a deputy mayor, Mr. Segarra is the Mayor's security blanket.
Mr. Segarra accompanies the Mayor to about 90 percent of his scheduled events and it is his job to anticipate and resolve unforeseen problems that arise when the Mayor is in public. Either Mr. Segarra or his associate, Michael Gaspard, arrives at the event well in advance of the Mayor to survey the situation. If there is a protest at the event, for example, the advance team alerts the Mayor before he arrives.
The Mayor relies on Mr. Segarra, who has been involved in city politics since the late 1960's and appears to know everyone who is someone in New York society, to tell him what officials or dignitaries are in the audience and should be recognized, or who just got married or had a baby or a death in the family. He is constantly passing notes to the Mayor.
 
Condoms and Hecklers
 At a recent health-care fair in Brooklyn, AIDS advocates gave the Mayor some free condoms that they were distributing, and Mr. Dinkins immediately turned to Mr. Segarra, pinched his cheeks, and said, "Here Arnie, take care of these." Mr. Dinkins often refers angry hecklers to Mr. Segarra, who helps resolve their complaints.
And when things go awry, as they often do, the Mayor has been known to scream and yell at Mr. Segarra, even when the situation is not of his making, mayoral aides say. Still, Mr. Segarra remains fiercely loyal to Mr. Dinkins, never disclosing what he has seen and heard in the confidence of his boss.
"I am very fond of Arnie," Mr. Dinkins said. "We are as close as folks can get. He is a tremendous political asset to me because of his experience and contacts in all circles. But his biggest value is that he is totally trustworthy."
Sid Davidoff, a lobbyist and former aide to Mayor John V. Lindsay, said that every public official needed someone like Mr. Segarra to look out for them and take care of details. "Arnie has the type of ego that doesn't mind hanging up the Mayor's coat, but he also has the smarts to head off serious problems," he said.
 
A 'Vision for Society'
 Asked about his loyalty to the Mayor, Mr. Segarra speaks philosophically about the goals that tie the two together: "Long before Dave Dinkins wanted to be Mayor, he was standing up and fighting for the rights of the underprivileged. We have the same vision for society, and I see my role as doing whatever I can to see that vision become a reality."
Mr. Segarra and the Mayor first met in the early 1970's when Mr. Segarra was an aide to Mr. Lindsay and Mr. Dinkins was active in politics in Harlem.
"Because I'm in the background, I hear and see things that the Mayor does not," Mr. Segarra said. "I know who's done him in and who's tried to do him in and that includes people outside and inside this administration."
 
Dismissed From 2 Jobs
 Puzzling to some both inside and outside the administration, who admit they know little about Mr. Segarra, is why the Mayor puts so much trust in a mid-level aide who was dismissed from two political jobs in 1970.
Arthur J. Goldberg, the Democratic gubernatorial candidate, dismissed Mr. Segarra for being part of a crowd that heckled and threw eggs at Mr. Goldberg's opponent, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller. While Mr. Segarra denied throwing eggs, he said the mostly Puerto Rican crowd was angry because the Governor had arrived in a chauffeured limousine in a rundown neighborhood.
That same year, Mr. Segarra lost his job with Mr. Lindsay when he publicly endorsed the Young Lords, a Puerto Rican community group that had taken over a church.
"I believed then, as I do now, that you have to stand up for what's right no matter what the consequences," Mr. Segarra said.
Though he began his political career as an outspoken advocate for Puerto Rican causes, Mr. Segarra has apparently not helped the Mayor to resolve his problems with Hispanic leaders, who have publicly criticized Mr. Dinkins as being insensitive to the needs of Hispanic residents.
Some of those Hispanic leaders said in interviews that while they believed the administration could do more to address their needs, they did not fault Mr. Segarra, who some praised as being politically astute.
"We understand that Arnie is the confidant of the Mayor, and we don't want to put him in a predicament by pushing our agenda with him," said Councilman Israel Ruiz of the Bronx. "That would be out of bounds. But if we really, desperately need to get a message to the Mayor, we believe that Arnie would at least deliver it."
Mr. Segarra, who played a major role in organizing the Mayor's trip to Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic in May, said that while Hispanic issues were no longer his sole agenda, he often advised Mr. Dinkins on how to deal with Hispanic voters.
Mr. Segarra has gained a reputation as a man about town, with his name appearing in local gossip columns as a frequent escort of such movie stars as Jessica Lange, Shelley Hack and Victoria Abril. Mr. Segarra acknowledges that he has spent time with the actresses, but he dismisses the romantic implications of the gossip columns, saying that they are "just acquaintances."
"Besides if I was doing 1 percent of what they say I'm doing, I'd be in the hospital," he said.
 
From Gangs to Basketball
 Mr. Segarra, who is the son of factory workers, was raised in the Johnson housing projects in East Harlem, where he was a member of a local gang until he joined the Boys Club to play basketball. He became a basketball star in high school and attended two years of junior college before dropping out to work with a Harlem housing organization.
Aides to the Mayor said that Mr. Segarra was one of the few people, aside from the Mayor's wife, Joyce, with whom Mr. Dinkins feels totally comfortable and can be himself. The two men occasionally go to jazz clubs to relax, Mr. Segarra said, and the aide is often present at Dinkins family functions at Gracie Mansion, the Mayor's official residence.
"Arnie's greatest value to the Mayor is that he feels totally at ease with him and relaxed when he's around," said Sally Hernandez-Pinero, the former Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development, who is now chairwoman of the New York Housing Authority. "Arnie is like an old-fashioned political aide: He believes his job is to do whatever the Mayor wants whenever."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arnaldo Segarra, left, may be Mayor David N. Dinkins's most trusted confidant and wherever the Mayor goes, Mr. Segarra is never far behind. Mr. Segarra followed the Mayor up the steps of City Hall. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Profile: Arnaldo Segarra"
 Born: July 13, 1948
 Hometown: Raised in East Harlem; lives in the West Village.
 Education: Benjamin Franklin High School; attended Paul Smith's College, Paul Smiths, New York.
 Career highlights: Aide to David N. Dinkins, then the Manhattan Borough President, 1985-1990; regional Hispanic director for field operations for Jimmy Carter's election campaign, 1975-77; Mayor John V. Lindsay's special assistant for Puerto Rican affairs, 1967-70.
 Interests: Basketball, handball, listening to salsa.
 Salary: $47,588.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; MAYORS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); EXECUTIVES (65%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (53%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); SEGARRA, ARNALDO; SEGARRA, ARNALDO (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); SIMS, CALVIN JIMMY CARTER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



449 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Ferruzzi's Ex-Chief Is Back, Defiant

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RAVENNA, Italy

 BODY:
Raul Gardini knows how to make waves.
Last year, he was ousted as head of Ferruzzi-Montedison, Italy's second- biggest conglomerate, after the three Ferruzzi siblings who control the agribusiness and chemical concern decided that Mr. Gardini -- their brother-in-law -- was taking the company in the wrong direction. 
 After the ouster, his wife, Idina, sold her 23 percent stake in the company to the family for $390 million.
Mr. Gardini spent much of this year yachting. His boat, Il Moro di Venezia, lost the America's Cup in May but was the first European boat in almost 30 years to reach the final round of the world's premier yachting event, helping to catapult yachting into the spectator-sport stratosphere, usually thought of as a soccer monopoly in this country.
Now, after retiring at least for now from racing, Mr. Gardini is re-entering the Italian business scene -- and with as much high drama and dynastic derring-do as his exit.
 
More Feuds in the Offing
 His plan to build a consumer products company in Italy is likely to provide yet another round of feuding within the powerful Ferruzzi clan. It was widely reported that as part of his severance deal with the Ferruzzis, Mr. Gardini agreed informally to steer clear of directly competing with any of the family's businesses -- a notion that Mr. Gardini says was an "invention of the Ferruzzis."
But he and the chairman of Ferruzzi-Montedison's own sugar company have already jointly bought an interest in a sugar company. Last month, he offered to buy the Quaker Oats Company's lucrative Italian cooking oil and soft drinks division. The offer, which was turned down, would have put him in direct competition with the Ferruzzis' oil marketer.
"My only moral duty is not to use my knowledge of their business," Mr. Gardini says, "and I have never done that."
Now, he is trying to buy the country's top-selling Levissima mineral water, a venture that would have no Ferruzzi rival.
On May 21, Italian newspapers reported, the Ferruzzi family apparently snubbed Mr. Gardini and his wife at a special concert here -- the family's home base -- by the Philadelphia Orchestra under its conductor, Riccardo Muti.
"It has never been very easy, but no one quarreled in public, or shouted," said one person at the company, who refused to be named. "They are all very stylish people. Under the surface, though, there may still be some jealousies."
 
Second-Largest Conglomerate
 Mr. Gardini became chairman of the Ferruzzi holdings in 1979, after his father-in-law, Serafino Ferruzzi, the group's founder, died in a plane crash. Over the next 11 years, he turned what had been a prosperous but conservative agribusiness based on grain-trading into Italy's second- largest conglomerate, after Fiat, broadening its base, particularly with the 1987 takeover of the Montedison chemical giant.
But the three Ferruzzi siblings began to worry that Mr. Gardini was leading the group into ever more controversial waters, especially when he tangled with Italy's political establishment over a short-lived 1989 merger between Montedison and the chemical division of the state oil company, ENI.
"My exit from Italy and Ferruzzi was provoked by the economic and political situation in this country," he said.
The investment in Enimont, as the merged company was called, led to a collision over the lugubrious and overstaffed management methods of Italy's large state-run business sector.
"Having paid a lot of money, I thought it would be possible to manage it in an economic way," Mr. Gardini said.
But the state placed conditions on the sale that would have thwarted Mr. Gardini's plans to close plants and sell assets. Montedison eventually sold its share of Enimont back to ENI for the equivalent of around $2.3 billion, which, according to Ferruzzi executives, was a profit of "a few hundred million."
After the incident, Mr. Gardini went on an extended vacation to sail in California, saying, "I no longer want anything to do with Italy."
But the final rift with the Ferruzzis came when the 58-year-old Mr. Gardini promoted a restructuring plan that would have broadened the shareholding away from Serafino's four children to embrace some of Mr. Gardini's business associates and several Ferruzzi grandchildren, including his own son Ivan.
 
Idea, Si; Mechanism, No
 "The family agreed with the idea, but not the mechanism," said a Ferruzzi spokesman, without elaborating.
"Everyone knows the proposal was not accepted," Mr. Gardini said, "so I left the group."
After negotiations between June and August 1991, the elder brother, Arturo Ferruzzi, who held a majority share all along, took charge of the company. Today, he controls 40 percent of the shares, and his sisters Franca and Alessandra have 30 percent each.
Mr. Gardini began the yachting venture while still head of Ferruzzi, which had already spent $50 million to buy a shipyard and a company to build the yacht. When he left, the company set a limit of $40 million on the development budget for the yacht, which Mr. Gardini used in conjunction with an undisclosed amount of his own money to build his yacht.
While not ruling out another run at the cup, Mr. Gardini said he would "tread softly" with yacht racing. Ferruzzi itself, an executive said, is "talking about the possibility of trying again."
"But it is impossible that we would compete again with Mr. Gardini," the executive said.
On June 30 Mr. Gardini cut his ties with the yacht-racing division of Ferruzzi, as required under the severance agreement.
He felt, he said, that it was time "to revive an adventure in this country."
In Italy, big business seems to revolve around a handful of big-name players whose activities make the general-news pages as much as the business pages. Each has a nickname. Just as Fiat's Gianni Agnelli is "l'avvocato," the lawyer, and Olivetti's Carlo de Benedetti is "l'ingegnere," the engineer, Mr. Gardini is "il contadino," meaning farmer, a named earned because of his activities in agribusiness.
Fittingly, he has chosen a barn, refurbished, surrounding it with acres of billiard-smooth lawn, as the corporate offices for his Italian holding company, Gardini , on the fringes of this ancient northern city. Antique tapestries have replaced the hayracks , and heavy brass ashtrays around the big, circular conference table bear the name "Il Moro di Venezia," his yacht, which lost this year to America3 in San Diego.
Last December, Mr. Gardini and his associate, Jean Marc Vernes, spent $311 million on holdings in the French food business, including a 16.6 percent stake in the ailing Sucden sugar, chocolate and meat concern, placing him potentially in competition with the Ferruzzi-controlled Eridania-Beghin Say sugar group. Curiously, Mr. Vernes runs Eridania.
Mr. Gardini has vowed to avoid direct competition with Eridania, but "if we can't avoid it, we can't."
Mr. Vernes's association with both Ferruzzi and Mr. Gardini is "rather anomalous," a Ferruzzi executive said. But Ferruzzi officials say the operation of Ferruzzi's sugar interests is no longer in Mr. Vernes's control and Mr. Vernes has announced plans to leave Ferruzzi at the end of the year.
He had apparently chosen "between a young business relationship that is probably long-lasting with Mr. Gardini and a slowly, quietly fading relationship with Ferruzzi," said a Ferruzzi executive speaking in return for anonymity.
Some of Ferruzzi's principal international competitors, including Archer-Daniels-Midland, Britain's Tate & Lyle and the Luxembourg holding company CIP, have each taken a 5 percent stake in another of Mr. Gardini's holding companies, Gardini et Associes.
Whether the association with its competitors worries Ferruzzi is open to debate.
"He's involving himself in a series of acquisitions, some successful, some unsuccessful," a Ferruzzi official said. "He's set up some small companies, but it's not in our league."
Ferruzzi made $94 million on $14.6 billion in sales in 1991.
Mr. Gardini, meanwhile, along with Giulio Malgara, the former European chief of Quaker Oats, put together $160 million to bid for part of Quaker's Italian business, including the market-leading cooking oils division, whose annual sales are $125 million.
"I was certainly the right person to make the offer," Mr. Malgara said, voicing disappointment, "but Quaker did not accept mine like it didn't accept others."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Having spent much of 1992 unsuccessfully pursuing the America's Cup, Raul Gardini has retired, for now, and is waging a reentry into Italian business. At the award ceremony in San Diego in May, Mr. Gardini cast a backward glance at the Cup that eluded him. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: EDN (BIT) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (66%); 

COUNTRY: ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FERRUZZI-MONTEDISON EDISON SPA (92%); QUAKER OATS CO (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: FERRUZZI-MONTEDISON

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ITALY ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS BOATING & RAFTING (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); JOINT VENTURES (76%); BOAT RACING (75%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); SOCCER (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%); SOFT DRINKS (50%); 

PERSON: GARDINI, RAUL; COWELL, ALAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



450 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Fannie Mae Net Advances 21%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13

 BODY:
The Federal National Mortgage Association reported today that second-quarter earnings rose 21 percent, to a record $402 million, or $1.47 a share, as low interest rates increased the volume of its business.
In the period a year earlier, Fannie Mae, as the Government-sponsored enterprise is called, earned $331.5 million, or $1.21 a share. 
 First-half earnings grew 20 percent, to $783.6 million, or $2.86 a share, from $651.5 million, or $2.40 a share, in 1991's first six months.
In New York Stock Exchange trading today, Fannie Mae's shares fell 75 cents to $63.75.
The company's total business volume reached a record $67 billion in the second quarter and $123 billion for the half, compared with $38 billion and $61 billion in the respective periods a year earlier.
The added volume made up for a slight increase in loan losses and a narrowing of the company's net interest margin, the difference between the interest it earns on mortgage loans and what it pays to obtain money.
Fannie Mae finances about one in every eight of the nation's single-family home purchases. It buys mortgages from lenders, holding some in its portfolio and packaging others into securities for resale to investors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



451 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking the National Chip Policy

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 13

 BODY:
A short five years ago, as America's semiconductor industry recoiled at the threat of Japanese domination, I.B.M. quietly helped create with the Federal Government an industry consortium to rebuild the nation's chip-making technology base.
The result was Sematech, in which the Government has poured a half-billion dollars since 1987, and U.S. Memories Inc., a private effort to assure United States computer makers of a steady supply of advanced memory chips for computers. 
 But U.S. Memories never went anywhere. And now, after I.B.M. announced a chip-making alliance with Toshiba and Siemens today, and Advanced Micro Devices announced one with Fujitsu, industry executives are re-evaluating whether supporting a nationalistic industrial policy is an appropriate corporate strategy.
 
'Survival Is the First Priority'
 I.B.M. executives, for example, said today that it was no longer feasible for the country to employ a Fortress America technology strategy.
"Companies need to be able compete globally to survive," Jack D. Kuehler, I.B.M.'s president said in a telephone interview today after a New York press conference held by executives of I.B.M., Toshiba and Siemens. "Survival is the first priority," he said. "Nationalistic factors are second priority."
Just as America's role as the world's military superpower has been redefined by Communism's collapse, the latest chip-development alliances suggest that future efforts to bolster American technology may need to become increasingly international.
 
The Korean Factor
 "We are past the point where the U.S. can do all of this on its own," said Michael Borrus, a political economist at University of California at Berkeley. "The question is how to reorganize ourselves so that we can get what we need from abroad while safeguarding the values we hold most dear."
He said that the aggressive entry of the Korean chip maker Samsung into the international memory chip market had been one of the most significant factors in dropping barriers to international cooperation. The Koreans have invested between $4 billion and $5 billion in computer memory technology, he said, and have taken 15 percent of the world memory market since they began production in 1987. "It has all come out of the Japanese market share," Mr. Borrus said.
Sematech officials, for their part, said that despite being surprised by the I.B.M. announcement, they agreed with I.B.M.'s changing philosphy.
"Clearly, the biggest concern is spending tax dollars to create jobs in other countries," said William J. Spencer, president and chief executive of Sematech, which is based in Austin, Tex., "But we're entering an era when nationalistic issues will continue to decline. Sematech gradually will become an international organization."
Mr. Spencer said Sematech had already held discussions with its counterpart in Europe, and he did not rule out cooperation with Japan in the future.
But I.B.M. executives were not ready to say the Government should put an end to its national industrial efforts. In fact they paid tribute to Sematech's role in developing the equipment that will be used in the newly announced development project. The project's goal will be to design chips that store 256 million bits of information -- 16 times more information than is stored on today's highest-capacity memory chips.
 
Reviving the Debate
 Nevertheless, I.B.M.'s alliance, which will combine engineers from the three companies at I.B.M.'s advanced technology semiconductor center in East Fishkill, N.Y., is certain to revive the debate over the role that the United States Government should play in supporting critical technologies like semiconductors and computers.
One perspective held by some industry executives and consultants is that there increasingly will be less need for Government-sponsored technology initiatives because national boundaries will play a smaller role in determining the makeup of huge technology projects.
"National boundaries no longer stop the flow of technology," said Shmuel Halevi, executive vice president at the Technology Research Group, a Boston-based semiconductor industry consultant. "Simply put, this alliance will kill whatever rationale there is left for Sematech."
Sematech has been given credit recently for helping to reverse the slide in market share of the American semiconductor equipment manufacturers. The world market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment is $20 billion, and American makers of such production gear registered an increase in 1991 worldwide market share to nearly 41 percent from 38 percent in 1990.
 
Sematech's Legacy
 Indeed, last month Silicon Valley Group Lithography Systems Inc., based in Wilton, Conn., introduced fundamentally new chip-making systems that industry executives say will become the basis of both I.B.M.'s and Toshiba's independent 64-million-bit memory chip efforts and may possibly be used for their jointly developed 256-million-bit chips scheduled to go into production at the end of the decade.
Significantly, the new lithography system, called the Micrascan II, was developed in part with funding from Sematech. I.B.M. played a lead role in seeing that the new system reached the market after its original developer, Perkin-Elmer, decided to pull out of the semiconductor manufacturing business.
Sematech officials said that the consortium's role would continue to be a crucial one, particularly in transferring technology between semiconductor equipment makers and chip makers.
"If Sematech weren't here, I.B.M. might have been able to make this agreement," Mr. Spencer said. "But 10 years from now it won't be possible. You can imagine Toshiba merely manufacturing here and keeping profits flowing back to Japan."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack D. Kuehler, center, the president of I.B.M., talked with Tsuyoshi Kawanishi, left, a senior vice president of the Toshiba Corporation, and Dr. Karlheinz Kaske, the president of Siemens A.G., yesterday after announcing that their companies were forming a new global chip-making alliance. (Stacey P. Morgan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); AMD (NYSE) (58%); AMD (FRA) (58%); TOS (LSE) (58%); 6502 (TSE) (58%); FUJ (LSE) (57%); 6702 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); TOSHIBA CORP; SIEMENS AG SIEMENS AG (58%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (58%); TOSHIBA CORP (58%); FUJITSU LTD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM); TOSHIBA CORP; SIEMENS AG

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SEMICONDUCTORS SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); MEMORY CHIPS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); MARKET SHARE (60%); JOB CREATION (50%); 

PERSON: MARKHOFF, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



452 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
4 Of Nation's Biggest Banks Post Higher 2d-Quarter Nets

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:
Four of the nation's largest banks reported higher second-quarter earnings yesterday, demonstrating that lower interest rates have helped them more than a weak economy has hurt.
The biggest surprise to industry analysts came from J. P. Morgan & Company, where profits rose 66.7 percent from the second quarter of last year on broad-based improvements, including stronger trading and corporate finance. 
 Chase Manhattan gained 15.2 percent, helped, like Morgan, by a wider spread between the interest rates it paid for deposits and other funds and the rates it received on loans and other investments.
Earnings at First Chicago rose 19 percent and at Barnett Banks Inc., 85.3 percent.
Frank R. DeSantis Jr., an analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said the latest reports confirmed a turnaround that began in the middle of last year. "Earnings have been strong and getting stronger," he said.
Following are the details of the second-quarter earnings results:
 
 
Morgan
 Morgan, the fifth-largest banking company, earned $385 million, or $1.94 a share, up from $231 million, or $1.17 a share, a year earlier.
Morgan continued its march into provinces that investment banks once dominated. Revenues from securities and currency trading, down sharply during the first quarter, rebounded to $287 million, up 22 percent from a year ago. Corporate finance revenues rose 21 percent, to $110 million, as Morgan became the first commercial banking company to lead a public stock offering in 60 years.
"Morgan is becoming the world's dominant trading and investment banking house, and the results prove that," said Thomas H. Hanley, an analyst at First Boston. These activities also, however, contributed to a 27 percent increase in operating expenses, to $745 million.
The company did better in virtually all of its other businesses, but analysts said the overall picture was not quite so impressive as the net earnings made it appear. They had expected Morgan to earn $1.35 a share, and ascribed most of its improvement to such one-time gains as a $124 million profit on the sale of bonds.
Morgan's shares closed yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange at $61.50, down 12.5 cents.
For the first six months of the year, Morgan earned $684 million, up 35.7 percent from $504 million in the first half of 1991.
 
Chase
 Chase Manhattan, the sixth-largest banking company, earned $152 million in the second quarter, or 83 cents a share, up from $132 million, or 80 cents a share, a year earlier.
The results, somewhat better than industry analysts expected, were attributed to higher interest income, stronger corporate finance and some profits on leveraged buyouts. Although loans shrank to $64.6 billion, from $72.8 billion a year ago, net interest revenues rose 5 percent, to $878 million from $834 million.
Chase showed less progress than some other major banks in managing its problem loans. The total of loans not currently paying interest rose $129 million over the quarter to $4.47 billion, including $153 million to borrowers in Yugoslavia.
For the first six months of the year, Chase earned $293 million, up 18 percent from $248 million in the first half of last year. Chase stock closed at $27.875, down $1.25.
 
First Chicago
 The First Chicago Corporation earned $68.2 million in the second quarter, or 79 cents a share, up from $57.3 million, or 73 cents a share.
Net interest revenues rose 9 percent, to $301 million from $275 million. But $368 million in real estate loans, including some to Olympia and York, were not making payments, up by $95 million over the quarter.
First Chicago shares closed at $35.875, down 62.5 cents.
 
Barnett
 Barnett Banks Inc. earned $54.1 million, or 67 cents a share, in the second quarter, up from $29.2 million, or 42 cents a share, a year ago.
It also had higher net interest income, as well as some improvement in the performance of its loans.
For the first six months of the year, Barnett earned $97.7 million, more than doubling its earnings of $47.5 million in the first half of last year.
Barnett shares closed on the Big Board at $37.25, down 75 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN, J P, & CO; CHASE MANHATTAN BANK (NYC); FIRST CHICAGO CORP; BARNETT BANKS INC BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN, J P, & CO; CHASE MANHATTAN BANK (NYC); FIRST CHICAGO CORP; BARNETT BANKS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); STOCK OFFERINGS (71%); CURRENCIES (71%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (61%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



453 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Is Told Not to Alter Constitution

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, July 13

 BODY:
Blaming what he called "right-wing extremists" within the Republican Party, the Senate Democratic leader, John A. Lynch, accused the Republican legislative majority today of trying to undermine the State Constitution.
During a half-hour news conference, Mr. Lynch made a frequently rambling, partisan attack on the Republicans, charging that if they succeeded in amending the Constitution it would create two separate New Jerseys divided along geographic and economic lines. 
 His comments marked the start of a Democratic campaign to arouse public sentiment against the proposed amendments and the Republicans, who have three weeks to pass legislation that would put the constitutional changes on the ballot Nov. 2.
Among the various amendments planned by the Republicans, he said, are one that would reduce requirements to give extra help to poor urban school districts and one that would prevent the state from fighting racism by joining school districts to achieve desegregation.
 
'Appears to Be on a Rampage'
 "The Republican majority in the Legislature appears to be on a rampage to amend the State Constitution," Mr. Lynch said. "This headstrong amendment blitz is a reckless bid to undermine the integrity of a document which has stood as a national model for a state government since its modern-day creation in 1947."
In a Republican response to Mr. Lynch, the Senate President, Donald T. DiFrancesco, said in a statement:
"It is ironic that a Democratic Party that presided over the placement of more than 30 proposed constitutional amendments since 1974, including legislative oversight and others, would raise questions about the propriety of placing a handful of questions on the ballot.
"These questions that the public will decide passed the Senate with bi-partisan support," Mr. DiFrancesco said.
Mr. Lynch, only half jokingly, told reporters that he had timed his news conference to take advantage of what he anticipated would be a news void in Trenton created by the start of the Democratic National Convention in New York City.
"This news conference is for all of us who have not been invited to the convention," he said.
The Legislature is in recess until July 20, when it is expected to take up a number of constitutional issues, including whether to grant the public a direct say in lawmaking through initiative and referendum balloting.
Since the Republican-controlled 205th Legislature began its two-year session in January, legislators have introduced nearly 90 bills to amend the State Constitution, about a dozen of them sponsored by Democrats.
Three of the Republican proposals have cleared the legislative labyrinth and will be placed on the November ballot. They are amendments to permit the Legislature to review administrative rules and regulations, to transfer certain judicial and probation costs from the counties to the state by July 1, 1977 and to strengthen the state death-penalty law.
Three more have cleared one chamber and are awaiting final passage in the second. Mr. Lynch suggested today that as many as six more Republican-sponsored amendments may come up for a vote in November.
"Over the 45 years of existence, the State Constitution has been amended on a number of occasions, but mostly on significant issues such as casino gambling, improving of our judicial system and dedicating income-tax receipts to property-tax relief," Mr. Lynch said. "Now, in a single year, there is a real possibility the Republicans will place more than a dozen amendments on the November ballot.
"This situation marks a dangerous time for New Jersey residents, not only for the maze of questions they will encounter once they enter voting booths, but also for what Republicans are willing to do to foist their brand of right-wing extremism on the people of New Jersey."
 
No 'Thorough and Efficient'
 Mr. Lynch distributed a list of a dozen Republican-sponsored bills to amend the Constitution. He singled out two proposals as especially egregious -- an amendment to remove the constitutional provision that every public school child be given a thorough and efficient education and one to prohibit the state from forcing school district consolidations to achieve desegregation.
Mr. DiFrancesco, the Senate President, defended the amendments the Republicans were suggesting, saying they gave "the people more input into the regulatory bureaucracy that rules, and sometimes ruins, their lives."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John A. Lynch, the Senate Democratic leader in Trenton, assaulted Republican efforts to amend the State Constitution yesterday in a news conference at which he said the majority party was on a "rampage." (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CONSTITUTIONS; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BLACKS (IN US); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; URBAN AREAS ; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION POLITICAL PARTIES (97%); LEGISLATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); BALLOTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (75%); RELIGION (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); 

PERSON: LYNCH, JOHN A (SEN) ; DIFRANCESCO, DONALD T (SEN); GRAY, JERRY JOHN LYNCH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



454 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Prices of Treasury Securities Slip

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities dipped and long-term interest rates moved a bit higher yesterday, as traders reacted to rumors and assorted worries by selling notes and bonds.
The price slide began during overnight trading, largely on press reports published over the weekend that Germany's Bundesbank would raise interest rates at a meeting on Thursday. 
 Those reports pushed down the value of the dollar on foreign exchange markets, and had an adverse effect on the bond market.
Traders and analysts cited large unsold positions of corporate debt securities, as well as worries about a victory for the Democratic Party in the November elections as reasons why prices slipped a bit further once trading shifted to the United States.
"Last week we had more than $9 billion worth of corporate bonds priced and not all of that has been cleaned up," said Steven A. Wood, director of financial market research at the Bank of America in San Francisco.
"We had a very nice run in prices last week after the employment numbers, and people were content to be unhedged relative to their corporate positions. Now we are seeing some hedging going on."
 
Unsettling in Bond Market
 As Democrats gathered in New York to nominate Gov. Bill Clinton and Senator Albert Gore to run for the White House in November, some analysts said the possibility of a victory by the Democrats was unsettling bond market participants.
"There had been an assumption in the market that Bush was going to win," said Steven Slifer, an executive vice president and financial market economist at Lehman Brothers.
"Now with the convention dominating the news and Clinton moving up in the polls, there is a little bit of concern that this may not be as much of a layup for the President that we thought."
Some traders said there was talk the Democrats might disclose an economic plan at the convention that would widen the Federal budget deficit.
With the Treasury scheduled to finance huge amounts of debt over the next three to four weeks, that sort of talk did not sit well with bond traders.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 29 1/2-year bonds of 2021 were offered late yesterday at a price of 103 3/4, down 18/32 , to yield 7.67 percent, compared with 7.62 percent late Friday.
Among outstanding Treasury notes, the 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 103 3/4, down 13/32 , to yield 6.96 percent. And the 5 percent two-year notes dipped by 1/32 , to a late offered price of 101 7/32 , to yield 4.34 percent.
Demand for short-term Treasury bills was said to be strong at the weekly auction.
Three-month bills were sold at an average discount rate of 3.22 percent, down slightly from the 3.23 percent average at last week's sale.
Bids on the new six-month bills produced an average discount rate of 3.31 percent, down one basis point, or one one-hundredth of a percentage point, from the average six-month bill rate auctioned a week ago.
The rate on the three-month bill is the lowest since Feb. 18, 1972. Six-month bill rates are at their lowest level since the auction on July 8, 1963.
New issue activity in both the corporate bond market and the tax-exempt municipal bond market slowed yesterday following last week's hectic pace. Only a trickle of new issues were priced.
In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds, traders said that prices of most outstanding issues were essentially unchanged.
Municipal bond traders said that prices of most widely quoted bonds fell by about 1/8 point.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	99.186	98.327	Discounted Rate	3.22%	3.31%	Coupon Yield	3.29%	3.41%	High Price	99.189	98.337	Discounted Rate	3.21%	3.29%	Coupon Yield	3.28%	3.39%	Low Price	99.186	98.327	Discounted Rate	3.22%	3.31%	Coupon Yield	3.29%	3.41%	Accepted at low price	87%	65%	Total applied for	$49,740,305	$43,155,350	Accepted	$11,648,195	$11,698,060	N.Y. applied for	$44,982,670	$38,603,450	N.Y. accepted	$10,227,210	$10,030,545	Noncompetitive	$1,455,410	$1,114,875	
 
Both these issues are dated July 16, 1992. The three month bills mature Oct. 15, 1992 and the six-month bill, Jan. 14, 1993.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows the average discounted rate in percent from Mar.-July, 1992. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PRICES OF TREASURY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PRICES OF TREASURY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); US DOLLAR (79%); AUCTIONS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



455 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Corn Sags, Wheat Rallies After Rainfall in Midwest

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Corn futures prices sagged and wheat futures rallied yesterday on the Chicago Board of Trade in response to rain in the Midwest that is helping the corn crop but slowing the winter wheat harvest.
Soybean futures also ended lower while oat futures advanced. 
 On other commodity markets, platinum futures rose, but gold and silver were mixed; most energy futures gained and livestock and meat futures were mostly lower.
Wheat for July delivery settled 4 1/4 cents higher at $3.39 1/4 a bushel; July corn fell 4 cents, to $2.40 1/2 a bushel; July oats rose 1 1/2 cents, to $1.33 a bushel; July soybeans slipped 1 1/4 cents, to $5.72 1/4 a bushel.
Corn was under pressure as a result of abundant weekend rain and forecasts for more in the Midwest, where a severely dry spring caused big worries for corn and soybean growers.
 
Rain Helps Soybeans, Too
 "This is make or break time for corn," which is entering its critical pollination phase, said Victor Lespinasse, assistant vice president in the grain-trading division of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
"The weather couldn't be better," he said. "The crop's going to be made if this weather keeps up."
The rain also benefited the soybean crop but kept farmers out of soft red winter wheat fields in the Midwest, where damp conditions may be hurting the quality of ripe wheat, Mr. Lespinasse said.
Susan Leighty, grain analyst with Prudential Securities Inc., said she was leery about reports of wheat damage in the Midwest after the Agriculture Department last week lowered its hard red winter wheat production estimate only slightly.
"We should heed what happened -- or didn't happen -- last month in the Plains," she said. "With all the rains they had, it hardly made a dent in production."
A National Weather Service forecast late in the afternoon predicted cool temperatures and normal rainfall in the Midwest during the first half of next week.
The Agriculture Department report also showed improvement in the condition of the corn and soybean crops.
Platinum futures rose strongly on the New York Mercantile Exchange, resuming a rally that stalled last week.
Last week's setback was "a little correction," said Martin Reichenberg, manager of trading services at Pegasus Econometric Group in Hoboken, N.J.
Analysts said platinum appeared to be poised for another upward run based on chart patterns, rising industrial demand and continuing violence in South Africa, the world's largest producer.
Platinum for July delivery rose $4.40, to $392 a troy ounce, a 13 1/2-month high.
August natural gas deliveries shot up 6.9 cents per 1,000 cubic feet, to $1.722 on the New York Merc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (93%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (70%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (93%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (68%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES GROUP INC (66%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (70%); MIDWEST USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES; CORN; GRAIN FUTURES (96%); WHEAT MARKETS (92%); CORN MARKETS (91%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (91%); CORN FARMING (90%); OATS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); WHEAT FARMING (90%); SOYBEAN FARMING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); WEATHER (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (74%); NATURAL GAS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (71%); 

PERSON: VICTOR LESPINASSE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



456 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Eases on Speculation Bundesbank May Lift Rates

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell against major foreign currencies in light trading yesterday, with many participants waiting for important economic reports later in the week. Gold prices rose slightly.
Gold bullion for current delivery on the New York Commodity Exchange was quoted at $349.10 an ounce, up 80 cents. A late bid at the Republic National Bank of New York quoted the metal at $348.70 an ounce, up 70 cents. 
 With little fresh economic news in the session, the dollar continued to sink on market expectations that Germany's Bundesbank may soon increase interest rates, said Robert Ryan, senior trader at the Bank of New York.
This speculation began Friday when the Dutch central bank made technical adjustments to reserve requirements for banks. Traders thought the Germans would copy the Dutch. They speculated that the tighter reserve requirements would hasten the dollar's slide against the mark, Mr. Ryan said.
In late European trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.478 marks, down from 1.4975; in late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.4755 marks, down from 1.494 late Friday.
Mr. Ryan said dealers are looking forward to today's reports on consumer prices and retail sales. A strong retail sales report could provide support for the dollar, he said.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 125.18 yen, down 0.57 yen from Friday. Later, in London, it was trading at 124.85 yen. At closing in New York, the dollar fetched 124.85 yen, down from 125.25 late Friday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.9285, from $1.9205 late Friday. At closing in New York the pound was quoted at $1.9295, more expensive than $1.9225 late Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (84%); HSB (PAR) (84%); HBC (NYSE) (84%); 0005 (HKSE) (84%); BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (87%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (84%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (87%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (52%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); RETAIL SALES (66%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); 

PERSON: ROBERT RYAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



457 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Classy Bill Clinton

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
In convention assembled, let us now join in hope that press and politicians will drop this baby boomer business about Gov. Bill Clinton and Senator Al Gore.
The label makes two sophisticated and experienced politicians sound as if there were something different, something coltish, about them that separates them from Americans who were born before World War II. 
 The truth is that Governor Clinton has managed to compile a political record of maturity in this campaign that so far has eluded both his elder competitors. He did so not because of his years or despite them but because in politics he was born grown up. So was Al Gore.
I am avoiding deciding about my own vote as long as I can. I find it makes politics and journalism more interesting -- you listen harder to everybody and watch more intently.
So, listening and watching, it seems to me that Bill Clinton has done what President Bush and Ross Perot have not so far been able to do. There's a good chance that he has also managed to destroy the big Republican weapon against him. See number 6, but not yet.
1. He's taken the dirt flung at him, wiped it off his face and stood like a grown, if you will forgive the word, man. Sometimes he surrendered tothe cherished constitutional right of Americans to blame the press. But mostly he and his wife accepted responsibility for their own lives.
That could mean a lot. It could mean that as President he would not blame somebody else for every failure as George Bush constantly blames Congress. The Governor of Arkansas has shown that he is not Slick Willie but Classy Bill Clinton.
2. In his speeches and his demeanor he has shown a warm-hearted respect for the one great yearning of Americans. It is not so much for change, but for return -- return to the conviction that their country is capable of giving them political freedom, economic betterment, physical safety and racial dignity, all.
That is Ross Perot's strength too. But he has not presented a program that showed he could put his brain where his mouth is.
Mr. Perot has given zest to American politics by giving choice. It would be a pity if he vanished into his own stubbornness.
3. Governor Clinton lived up to his most important promise. He chose a Vice-Presidential candidate who could most certainly be President.
In fact, Senator Gore may feel like kicking himself for not going for it this year. He will find company among his many New York admirers. Anyway Governor Clinton picked his equal, not his shadow.
4. He has fought bigotry from wherever it came. That is the meaning of his stand against the racist mouthings of Sister Souljah, for those of all colors who detest bigots of all colors. The G.O.P. took a good stand on that too; so did Ed Rollins, the Perot adviser. Mr. Perot himself, he waffled.
5. Governor Clinton refused to turn over the party or himself to the Democratic left. They have every right to struggle for dominance as long as they recognize his right to use his power to refuse it to them.
I have a hunch that if he is elected, a number of people may find his appointments and his entourage too leftish for our tastes. We can shout complaint and will. But he has not shown any tendency to suffocate the non-lefties in the party.
And now, 6. Instead of moving in only one direction, liberal or conservative, he shows gut understanding that most Americans are like diners in a Chinese restaurant. They tend to pick one dish from Column A and another from Column B. They do not want a one-taste ideological meal.
Ross Perot understands that too. That is why some of the Republican pitchmen are shouting "liberal" at him. He is not terrified.
But it is the Democratic ticket that the Republicans hope to destroy by screaming "liberal" at it. As a liberal conservative and conservative liberal routinely labeled reactionary reactionary by the radical left, I find it equally brainless for the Republicans to rely on one all-encompassing word to try to demolish a ticket of two sophisticated menu-readers.
The other day a chieftain of the Republican campaign managed to do that four times in one sentence. Maybe he got a bonus. Maybe he is a mole. Either way he was downright hilarious. For a political party, comical is worse than brainless.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); ELECTION ISSUES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); WORLD WAR II (57%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



458 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Poland Undergoes A Transformation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your July 6 front page report on President Bush's stop in Warsaw speaks of his "glossing over Poland's economic and political problems, which have worsened considerably since he last visited, in 1989." This judgment is seriously in error.
In 1989, Poland had a Communist dictatorship; hyperinflation; intense shortages, threatening hunger and chaos; wages, measured at free-market exchange rate, of $15 a month, and a bankrupt state-owned sector, which controlled more than 75 percent of the economy. State sector production was collapsing rapidly. 
 Today, Poland has a vigorous democracy, a freely elected President and Parliament; has eliminated shortages and hyperinflation; has booming exports, up 65 percent since 1989; booming purchases of consumer durables, paid for by the exports, which are raising living standards; wages of $200 a month, and a private sector that is more than 50 percent of the economy, with more than 600,000 businesses started since Mr. Bush's 1989 visit. Production has increased in the first half of this year.
The harsh legacy continues, and future instability cannot be ruled out. But President Bush states accurately, "Today, Poland stands transformed," and the economic reforms "are working."
 
JEFFREY D. SACHS
Cambridge, Mass., July 6, 1992
 
The writer, professor of international trade at Harvard, has been an adviser on Poland's market reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: POLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND POLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DURABLE GOODS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (56%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



459 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Data Distort Minimum Wage Story

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Forging New Insight on Minimum Wages and Jobs" (Business Day, June 29) reports on two studies by Harvard and Princeton economists that conclude rising minimum wages do not destroy jobs. The figures, however, do not support this conclusion.
When teen-agers and other minimum-wage workers cannot find jobs, many give up and just don't bother to look for work. Thus they are not considered unemployed by the Department of Labor, which counts only those actively looking for a job. 
 Because of this, the employment data released last summer were misleading and masked a loss of nearly 800,000 jobs for teen-agers since enactment of the new minimum-wage law in April 1990.
A comparison between data on teen-age employment and unemployment in the 1989 and 1991 data shows a significantly lower employment rate by teen-agers in 1991 because fewer jobs were available.
In June 1989, before the latest increase in the minimum wage, 56.4 percent of teen-agers were in the labor force. By June 1991, the participation rate had fallen to 51.2 percent. If the participation rate in 1991 were the same as two years earlier, there would have been 7.54 million 16- to 19-year-olds in the labor force, not the 6.85 million that was reported.
If this decline in participation were added to the unemployment rate, there would have been 2 million unemployed teen-agers, instead of 1.31 million, and teen-age unemployment would have been 26.6 percent, instead of 19.2 percent. The overall unemployment rate would have been 7.5 percent, instead of the 6.8 percent that was reported.
The impact on black teen-agers was particularly great. Their participation rate declined from 44.2 percent in June 1989 to 34.8 percent in June 1991. If this decline were taken into account, the unemployment rate for black teen-agers would have been 47.8 percent, not the 33.7 percent that was reported by the Department of Labor.
 
MARTIN LEFKOWITZ
Director of Special Projects
U.S. Chamber of Commerce
Washington, July 1, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET MINIMUM WAGE (94%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (73%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



460 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 14, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Data Distort Minimum Wage Story;
Ignoring Christmas

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The study by Lawrence H. Katz and Richard B. Kreuger that you report on (Business Day, June 29) compared employment in Texas fast-food outlets before and after the minimum-wage increase.
Unfortunately, the researchers compared December employment, a time when restaurant employment is near its seasonal low, with that in July, when employment peaks for the year. Since 1985, December employment in Texas restaurants has consistently been 95 percent to 97 percent of July employment. 
 Yet Professors Katz and Kreuger made no adjustment for this. That is like ignoring Christmas in analyzing retail sales.
 
RICHARD B. BERMAN
Executive Director
Employment Policies Institute
Washington, June 30, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS RESTAURANTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE EMPLOYMENT (93%); MINIMUM WAGE (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); FAST FOOD (87%); FOOD INDUSTRY (87%); RESTAURANTS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RETAIL SALES (51%); 

PERSON: LAWRENCE H KATZ (88%); RICHARD B KREUGER (88%); RICHARD B BERMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1992



461 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: THE DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM -- PARTY PLATFORM;
Party's Quest for a Middle Road: A Liberal Stance in Business Suits

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

 BODY:
The platform that the Democratic Party endorsed last night puts new conservative words to an old liberal tune in an attempt to find a middle road between the unfettered capitalism espoused by Republicans and the welfare-state economics of the Democrats' past.
The Democrats and their Presidential candidate, Gov. Bill Clinton, are eager to shed the party's image as favoring a tax-and-spend irresponsibility, and the platform stresses virtues like personal responsibility, strengthening the family and market forces. Restrictions on welfare are advocated, and the need for military might is stressed.
 
Some Expected Stands
 But at the same time, the document endorses Government-paid abortions for poor women, expanded child care, higher taxes on the wealthy, civil rights protection for homosexuals, universal medical insurance, unpaid leave for workers during family emergencies, increases in the minimum wage at the same rate as inflation and vastly increased spending on public works and environmental protection. 
 About 20 speakers presented various parts of the platform. Some were prominent Democrats like former President Jimmy Carter, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, Senators John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia and Tom Harkin of Iowa and Representative Patricia Schroeder of Colorado.
Others are viewed by party leaders as showing promise worthy of national exposure, including Kathleen Brown, the State Treasurer of California, Representative Jill L. Long of Indiana and Kathy Karpan, the Secretary of State of Wyoming.
And still others were called to make a particular point, particularly Elizabeth Glaser, who has AIDS, and Bob Hattoy, a Clinton adviser who also has AIDS.
 
Carter Sounds Theme
 Mr. Carter struck a central theme of the platform when he accused President Bush of fostering poverty and hopelessness at home and conflict and bloodshed abroad.
And Mr. Jackson, perhaps the foremost spokesman for the party's left flank, discounted the importance of the party's drift away from old-fashioned liberalism. "History will remember us," Mr. Jackson said, "not for our positioning but for our principles, not by our move to the political center, left or right, but rather by our grasp on the moral and ethical center of right and wrong."
To be sure, this platform has a different tone from those of conventions past. Most important, the emphasis this year is on economic growth, an uncontestable verity, rather than redistribution of wealth, which some Americans find objectionable.
But the difference is not so much that the liberal notions of the past were stricken as it is that more moderate planks were piled on. This year's platform, at about 10,000 words, is about twice the length of the 1988 Democratic platform.
Over the years, Democratic platform debates have led to walkouts, even riots, when emotional issues were addressed, including free silver at the turn of the century, civil rights in the 1940's, 50's and 60's and the Vietnam War in the late 1960's and early 70's.
There was none of that kind of drama in Madison Square Garden last night.
By prior agreement with the Clinton camp, the supporters of former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts were permitted to offer minority planks dealing with a lower capital gains tax, a higher tax on gasoline, a spending freeze and opposition to Governor Clinton's advocacy of lower taxes for families with children.
The first three were rejected on voice votes, and the last one was defeated by a margin of nearly 5 to 2 on this convention's first roll-call vote.
The supporters of former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, who favor measures like a term limit for members of Congress and a $100 ceiling on campaign donations, did not have enough support to put their cases before the convention. Neither did opponents of abortion like Gov. Robert P. Casey of Pennsylvania.
 
Strong Abortion Stand
 At a news conference this afternoon, Governor Casey called the platform "self-defeating because it excludes not only pro-life voters but also those who are ambivalent but believe the number of abortions ought to be reduced."
On abortion, the platform states, "Democrats stand behind the right of every woman to choose, consistent with Roe v. Wade, regardless of ability to pay, and support a national law to protect that right."
Earlier in his career, Mr. Clinton opposed public financing of abortions for poor women but for years he has favored such financing. Senator Al Gore of Tennessee has continued to vote against spending Federal Medicaid money for abortions. But in interviews since he was tapped to be Mr. Clinton's running mate, Mr. Gore has spoken of overhauls in the health care system that would include abortion financing.
Unlike the situation in parliamentary democracies, party platforms in the United States bind no one, least of all the President. Franklin D. Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan were elected on platforms that advocated balanced budgets, but they abandoned that goal, in deed if not in words, on taking office.
But platforms are important here to the extent that they distinguish the principles of one party from another. The Republican platform to be adopted in Houston next month will surely oppose abortion, emphasize development over environmental protection, stress business interests and private schools and favor capital punishment and prayer in schools. All that is anathema to Democrats.
And here is a sentence from the Democrats that would be unimaginable in a Republican platform: "People should share in society's common costs according to their ability to pay."
The platform also serves the purpose of painting the image the party wants to convey on television to the public.
On the convention floor, Erik Silver, a Clinton delegate from California, understood that principle well. "Our reputation," he said, "is that of a bunch of wasteful spenders. We're trying to change that image."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (92%); LIBERALISM (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ETHICS (76%); AIDS & HIV (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (71%); VIETNAM WAR (70%); LGBT RIGHTS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (68%); RIOTS (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; CARTER, JIMMY; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) JIMMY CARTER (89%); BILL CLINTON (88%); JESSE JACKSON (76%); TOM HARKIN (73%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



462 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Israel's New Broom: How Much Time to Sweep?

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, July 14

 BODY:
On his first full day as Israel's new Prime Minister, Yitzhak Rabin today savored the high expectations that have accompanied his ascent to political dominance.
The problem, some Israeli political commentators warned, is that he may not enjoy a long honeymoon period to fulfill those expectations. 
 Mr. Rabin took office with barrels full of good will from the Bush Administration, whose sighs of relief over being rid of Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir were almost strong enough to cause trees to sway in Jerusalem.
The Americans are so delighted with Mr. Rabin's pledge to press full steam ahead toward peace agreements with the Palestinians -- and clearly so eager to make him look good -- that they quickly announced that Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d would be traveling here on Sunday. Ostensibly, he is coming to talk about the peace process. But presumably the agenda will also include how Washington can now hand Israel billions in housing loan guarantees, purposefully denied to Mr. Shamir.
 
Hope for Fast Improvement
 Domestically, Israelis are looking to the new Labor-led Government to improve their daily lives in a hurry. They want their 11.6 percent unemployment rate lowered. They want the police to get a handle on Arab terrorism. They want corruption by officialdom to end.
To them, Mr. Rabin offers himself as a reasoned, pragmatic alternative to years of ideological fervor from Mr. Shamir and his Likud Party. The vivid contrasts in the two men's visions of what their country should be practically leaped off the pages of their speeches on Monday to a session of Parliament that gave the Rabin Government its vote of confidence.
There was Mr. Rabin, 70 years old and the country's only native-born Prime Minister, saying that Israel had to get rid of the siege mentality that he says has burdened it for nearly half a century. "No longer is it true that the whole world is against us," he asserted.
And there was Mr. Shamir, 76 and Polish-born, his soul seared by the Nazi Holocaust, declaring that it most certainly is true that anti-Semites and anti-Zionists lurk out there, and that the only answer is an unbending commitment to hold onto every inch of the biblical Land of Israel. Mr. Rabin, he said, is prepared to "abandon the future for the sake of present gains, short-lived and short-sighted."
 
'Blood, Sweat and Money'
 But in their recent election enough Israelis switched political allegiances to form a collective statement that they had grown weary of ideology that brings them no peace, no place. "The Israeli middle class increasingly is refusing to pay the bill in blood, sweat and money for the Likud vision," said Yaron Ezrahi, a political theorist at Hebrew University.
The high expectations now held by these Israelis, and perhaps more so by Americans and Europeans, have been raised many notches by Mr. Rabin's gung-ho manner. He presented himself in the election campaign not as the head of a party parliamentary list but virtually as an American-style presidential candidate. Since his victory June 23, he has assumed large measures of authority, putting himself in direct charge of the Defense Ministry and Israeli peace-talks strategy, in addition to his regular duties.
On Monday, he completed the take-charge picture by declaring that he wanted to waste no time reaching an agreement on limited self-rule for Palestinians in the occupied territories.
Where Mr. Shamir was widely -- and the former Prime Minister says unfairly -- seen as hoping to drag out the peace talks, Mr. Rabin promises to bar no holds. Why, he declared, he was ready to visit Arab leaders and have them come to Jerusalem if it would do any good -- a gesture also made by his recent predecessors, to no avail, and greeted today in Arab capitals with the sound of one hand clapping.
 
Loans for a Freeze?
 In Jerusalem, Haidar Abd el-Shafi, head of the Palestinian delegation to the peace talks, said Mr. Rabin's remarks on Monday were "not very encouraging" because they contained no mention of exchanging land for peace. He also warned that if the United States now gave Israel the loan guarantees it wanted without insisting on a freeze of Jewish settlements in the territories, "this is going to destroy the peace process."
The challenge for Mr. Rabin will be to keep the various hopes from sagging, and right now there are many questions in key areas.
While he promises to negotiate hard and fast, there are no signs yet that the self-rule he will offer Palestinians differs from Mr. Shamir's already-rejected proposals. Nor is it clear just how his domestic programs will differ from Likud's, especially since neither party takes a Reaganite, hands-off approach to the economy.
As for Mr. Rabin's often-stated pledge to curtail West Bank and Gaza Strip settlements, details remain in short supply. His Housing Minister, Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, said today that "no more money will go to new settlements," and that should please the Bush Administration. But there are already 16,500 new housing units in the settlements pipeline, thousands of them nearing completion, and Mr. Rabin has yet to say what he will do about them.
Working in his favor, though, is the perception here that the new Prime Minister may mean business, no matter how sparing he may be right now on details. This is his second time in the job, and he acknowledges that he won no prizes after his lackluster first round in the 1970's. It is taken for granted that he does not want to end his career now on the same flat note.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: SHMR (TASE) (92%); SHMR (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (92%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

COMPANY: SHAMIR OPTICAL INDUSTRY LTD (92%); LIKUD PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIKUD PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ISRAEL; MIDDLE EAST ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; HOUSING; CREDIT HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); HOLOCAUST (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); TERRORISM (51%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (51%); 

PERSON: RABIN, YITZHAK (PRIME MIN); SHAMIR, YITZHAK; HABERMAN, CLYDE; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC) TZIPORA LIVNI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



463 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 1887 words

HEADLINE: IN THEIR OWN WORDS;
Excerpts From Remarks Delivered by Jackson and Carter at the Convention

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from remarks delivered at the Democratic National Convention by the Rev. Jesse Jackson and former President Jimmy Carter, as transcribed by The New York Times.
 
Rev. Jesse Jackson
 President Bill Clinton, you have survived -- you have survived a tough spring. It will make you stronger for the fall. With your stripes you must heal and make us better. The hopes of many depend upon your quest. Be comforted that you do not stand alone. 
 And now that it look like you are going to win the race in November, people are already lining up outside of your hotel to get a job or an appointment. Just remember when you get to the White House that I put Hope, Ark., on the map by saying keep Hope, Ark., alive all over America.
Vice President Al Gore, in years past Republicans would always talk about a stature gap. But this time around, they have a Vice President who cannot spell "potato," and our candidate can spell "fluorofluorocarboantidisestablishmentarianism" at the same time -- Al Gore.
I want to thank Al Gore for his work as environmental leader, a supporter of social justice, an original sponsor of D.C. statehood.
We stand as witnesses to a pregnant moment in history. Across the globe, we feel the pain that comes with new birth. Here in our country pain abounds. We must be certain that it leads to new birth and not a tragic miscarriage of opportunity. We must turn pain to power; pain to partnership, and not pain to polarization.
The great temptation in these difficult days of racial polarization and economic injustice is to make political arguments black and white and miss the moral imperative of wrong and right. Vanity asks, "Is it popular?" Politics asks, "Will it win?" Morality and conscience ask, "Is it right?"
We are part of the continuing struggle for justice and decency, linked in a chain that began long before we were born and will extend long after we are gone. History will remember us not for our positioning but for our principles. Not by a move to the political center, left or right, but rather by our grasp on the moral and ethical center of wrong and right.
We who stand with working people and poor have a special burden. We must stand for what is right; stand up to those who have the might. We do so grounded in the faith that that which is morally wrong will never be politically right. But if it is morally sound, it will eventually be politically right.
By my standing here tonight and looking into your faces, I hear the pain and see the struggles that prepared the ground that you stand on. We've come a long way from where we started a generation ago it seemed, in 1964. Fannie Lou Hamer from Sunflower County, Miss., Fannie Lou Hamer had to fight even to sit in this convention. Tonight, 28 years later, the chair of the party is Ron Brown from Harlem; the manager is Alexis Herman, an African-American woman from Mobile, Ala. We've come a long way.
And yet we're more interdependent than we realize. Not only African-Americans benefited from the movement led by Dr. King for justice. It was only when African-Americans in the South were free to win those states to Bill Clinton and Al Gore from that same South take this rostrum to lead our country into the next century.
Tonight, we face another challenge. Ten million Americans unemployed, 25 million on food stamps, 35 million in poverty, 40 million have no health care. From the coal miners in Big Stone Gap, W. Va., to the loggers and environmentalists in Roseburg, Ore., from displaced textile workers in my home town of Greenville, S.C., the plant closing in Van Nuys, Calif., pain abounds. . . .
There is, there is a harshness to America that comes from not seeing and growing mindless materialism. Our television sets bring the world into our living rooms, but too often we overlook our neighbors.
It was there in Hamlet, N.C., 25 workers died in a fire at Imperial Foods, more women than men, more white than black. They worked making chicken parts in vats heated to 400 degrees with few windows and no fans. The owners locked the doors from the outside. The women died. He said he locked the doors because they may steal some chicken wings. These women died trapped by economic desperation and oppressive work laws.
One woman came up to me after the fire and said, "Rev. Jackson, I want to work. I don't want to be on welfare. I have three children and no husband." She said, "I plucks 90 wings a minute. Some times I can't bend my wrists; I catches this carpal thing" -- talking about the carpal syndrome. "And then when we get hurts and can't bend our wristses, then we can't get no medical care." . . . "Then they fires us, 'cause we cripple. And then they called us lazy bitch."
And she began to cry. And I said, "You are not lazy, and you are not bitch, and you are not alone, and a change is coming. We stand with you."
Her friend, a white woman came up to me and said, "Let me have your other shoulder. I'm seven months pregnant. We're standing in two inches of water with two five-minute bathroom breaks a day, sometimes we can't hold our water. And then our bowels break and then we faint."
We work together and we keep Hamlet, N.C., in our hearts and before our eyes.
We will act to empower working people, we will protect the right to organize and to strike. We will empower workers, we will empower workers to enforce health and safety laws, we'll provide a national health care system, a minimum wage sufficient to bring workers out of poverty and paid parental leave. We must build a movement for economic justice across this nation. This land is our land.
Tonight we face a difficult challenge. Our cities have been abandoned, farmers forsaken, children neglected, floods in Chicago, fires in Los Angeles. They say they cannot find $35 billion for our mayors but the latest down payment for S.& L. bailout thieves is $25 billion. If we can find the money to bail out S.& L. thieves we can find the money to bail out American cities. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	We cannot become isolationists. We must reach out. Let us not forget in 1939 900 Jews left Germany coming to America for freedom. They got within Miami Beach, Fla., eyesight. U.S. authorities turned the 900 Jews, mostly women and children, around on the ship called the St. Louis. They got back to Germany. Hitler killed them and said to them, No one would accept you. It was anti-Semitic and wrong to lock them out. But guess what, 1942.
You saw young Kristi Yamaguchi skating to glory in the Olympics a few months ago. Her mother was born in an American concentration camp, 120,000 Japanese-Americans locked up while they fought to help us win the Second World War. If it were wrong and anti-Semitic to lock the Jews out in 1939, if it were wrong to lock the Japanese-Americans up in 1942 it's wrong to lock the Haitians out in 1992.
Tonight, South Africa remains a terrorist state. Sanctions should be reimposed until there's an interim government established in South Africa.
Lastly, there's a lot of talk these days about family values. Even as we spurn the homeless on the street remember Jesus was born to a homeless couple, outdoors in a stable in the winter. Jesus was a child of a single mother. When Mary said Joseph, when, when Mary said Joseph was not the father she was abused and questioned. If Mary had aborted the baby she would have been called immoral. If she had the baby she would have been called unfit, without family values. But Mary had family values. It was Herrod, the Quayle of his day, who put no value on the family. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	And I say this to you tonight as we proceed toward November in all of this ugliness there is hope. There is still that silver lining in the cloud. Let us not forget. We talk a lot about Rodney King and how the white police beat him and how the white jury freed them and how racist that was, and it was. But lest you forget, unless a white man named George Holiday with a sense of conscience and instinct, had not George Haliday filmed the beating, and made it public tonight Rodney King would be in jail accused of assaulting police officers. He is a genuine port of light.
But then on the other side of town you saw the white truck driver beaten on television. It was wrong. It was wrong for the police to withdraw from their duty. But those police did not save Mr. Denny. It was four young black youths operating as good Samaritans. They saved his life. There is hope. There is hope. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	All of us are not born giants with silver spoons in our mouths and gold slippers on our feet; some of us are born short, short of hope, short of opportunity, abandoned, neglected, homeless, motherless, teeth crooked, eyes tangled, dreams busted -- hurt! But somebody has to measure their giantness not by leaping up but by reaching back and reaching out and loving and caring and sharing. Democrats, if we pursue that ethic, that love ethic, that care ethic, we will win.
 
Jimmy Carter
 With Federal funding slashed to the bone for instance, there are now 10 times as many homeless people in Atlanta, Ga., as there were when I left the White House. Violent crimes, violent crimes among juveniles have increased 300% in just the last five years. Their lack of hope for a better life seems to be equaled among America's leaders.
Those in the White House, the Congress, governors' mansions, mayors' offices, corporate boardrooms, and even university campuses have come to doubt that anything they do can make a difference in crime, juvenile delinquency, drug additions, homelessness or unemployment. I do not believe that the hopelessness is justified and this country must do something about it.
Increasingly concerned about the plight of families in our inner cities We at the Carter Center have embarked on what we call the Atlanta Project. . . .
Now, Atlanta is a wonderful city, prosperous, progressive, and blessed with good race relations. But there are two Atlantas. I've been Governor and President of these same Georgia neighbors, but my recent visits among them has been an education to me. I've learned why many pregnant women will not seek prenatal care, why one-fourth of all the public housing apartments are boarded up and unused despite a long waiting list for occupancy.
I've visited a middle school where the primary problem with young boys is that their measure of success in life, their achievement of stature among their peers is to own a semi-automatic weapon. I've learned that the pregnancy rate was highest in the lower grades among girls because the pimps and the drug pushers prefer sex with the little ones who are cheaper, less able to defend themselves and less likely to have AIDS.
I've visited hut villages with homes the size of minibuses where one resident was trying to teach the others how to read, another had helped the neighbors to build their houses and they rotated the boiling of water from street sewers and then shared it equally with the other families.
They were not furnished running water or portable toilets in hopes that they would move out of the neighborhood.
This is a great city in America and not the slums of Haiti, Bangladesh, or Uganda. And this has got to change.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former President Jimmy Carter addressing the convention last night. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); ETHICS (71%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (71%); MISCARRIAGES (65%); 

PERSON: CARTER, JIMMY; JACKSON, JESSE L (REV) JESSE JACKSON (93%); JIMMY CARTER (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



464 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Bethlehem Steel Posts Loss

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
The Bethlehem Steel Corporation, the nation's second-largest steel producer, said yesterday that it would report a net loss of $64 million for the second quarter. The company said the loss was the result of a litigation charge and continued depressed prices for steel.
In a statement, the company said it expected "moderate improvement in steel demand. 
 The company said the results included a $25 million charge to increase its reserve for loss contingencies in connection with an appeal it lost last month before the Supreme Court of Kentucky over a longstanding dispute over the ownership of a coal mine in eastern Kentucky.
Bethlehem, which reported a deficit of $29 million in the second quarter of last year, said the latest loss would have been $39 million without the effects of the charge. The company said that steel production costs were lower in the second quarter than in the first three months of this year, but that, on average, the prices were lower for most of products.
Although American steel producers have become far more efficient and have enhanced their productivity in recent years, lower demand and stiff price competition have caused earnings to plunge in the last two years.
Bethlehem, too, is facing a number of difficulties. The company has been hard hit by the industry's low prices, but has also been affected by intense competition from smaller, mini-mill producers that make steel from scrap and typically have smaller work forces with lower salaries. Bethlehem still produces a number of steel products that have become more and more the bread and butter of mini-mill companies, namely structural steel.
"My sense is that it's going to be a while before we really see these companies back on their feet and in the black again," said Christopher Plummer, an analyst with Resource Strategies Inc., an economic consulting firm in Philadelphia. Bethlehem Steel, he said, "still has a lot to do in terms of cost cutting. On the New York Stock Exchange, Bethlehem Steel's shares dropped on news of the announcement but recovered later in the day, closing at $14.625, up 37.5 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BS (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); SUPREME COURT OF KENTUCKY (57%); SUPREME COURT OF KENTUCKY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP SUPREME COURT OF KENTUCKY (57%); SUPREME COURT OF KENTUCKY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); KENTUCKY, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS IRON & STEEL MILLS (93%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); LITIGATION (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); STOCK EXCHANGES (61%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



465 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 2761 words

HEADLINE: THE DEMOCRATIC PLATFORM;
Excerpts From the Platform: A 'New Covenant' With Americans

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the platform adopted by the Democratic National Convention last night.
 
PREAMBLE
The last 12 years have been a nightmare of Republican irresponsibility and neglect. America's leadership is indifferent at home and uncertain in the world. Republican mismanagement has disarmed government as an instrument to make our economy work and support the people's most basic values, needs and hopes. The Republicans brought America a false and fragile prosperity based on borrowing, not income, and so will leave behind a mountain of public debt and a backbreaking annual burden in interest. It is wrong to borrow to spend on ourselves, leaving our children to pay our debts. 
 We hear the anguish and the anger of the American people. We know it is directed not just at the Republican administrations that have had power but at Government itself.
Their anger is justified. We can no longer afford business as usual -- neither the policies of the last 12 years of tax breaks for the rich, mismanagement, lack of leadership and cuts in services for the middle class and the poor, nor the adoption of new programs and new spending without new thinking.

 	 	 		. . .	 	Therefore we call for A REVOLUTION IN GOVERNMENT -- to take power away from entrenched bureaucracies and narrow interests in Washington and put it back in the hands of ordinary people. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	To make this revolution, we seek a NEW COVENANT to repair the damaged bond between the American people and their government, that will expand OPPORTUNITY, insist upon greater individual RESPONSIBILITY in return, restore COMMUNITY and insure NATIONAL SECURITY in a profoundly new era. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
I. OPPORTUNITY
Our party's first priority is opportunity -- broad-based, non inflationary economic growth and the opportunity that flows from it. Democrats in 1992 hold nothing more important for America than an economy that offers growth and jobs for all. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	We reject both the do-nothing government of the last 12 years and the big government theory that says we can hamstring business and tax and spend our way to prosperity. Instead we offer a third way. Just as we have always viewed working men and women as the bedrock of our economy, we honor business as a noble endeavor and vow to create a far better climate for firms and independent contractors of all sizes that empower their workers, revolutionize their work places, respect the environment and serve their communities well. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	INVESTING IN AMERICA The only way to lay the foundation for renewed American prosperity is to spur both public and private investment. . . .
To begin making our economy grow, the President and Congress should agree that savings from defense must be reinvested productively at home, including research, education and training, and other productive investments. We will create a "future budget" for investments that make us richer, to be kept separate from those parts of the budget that pay for the past and present. For the private sector, instead of a sweeping capital gains windfall to the wealthy and those who speculate, we will create an investment tax credit and a capital gains reduction for patient investors in emerging technologies and new business.

 	 	 		. . .	 	THE DEFICIT Addressing the deficit requires fair and shared sacrifice of all Americans for the common good. . . . We must also tackle spending by putting everything on the table, eliminate nonproductive programs, achieve defense savings, reform entitlement programs to control soaring health-care costs, cut Federal administrative costs by 3 percent annually for four years, limit increases in the "present budget" to the rate of growth in the average American's paycheck, apply a strict "pay as you go" rule to new noninvestment spending and make the rich pay their fair share in taxes. These choices will be made while protecting senior citizens and without further victimizing the poor. . . .
THE CITIES . . . A national public works investment and infrastructure program will provide jobs and strengthen our cities. . . . We will encourage the flow of investment to inner-city development and housing through targeted enterprise zones and incentives for private and public pension funds to invest in urban and rural projects.
AGRICULTURE AND THE RURAL COMMUNITY All Americans, producers and consumers alike, benefit when our food and fiber are produced by hundreds of thousands of family farmers receiving a fair price for their products. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	WORKERS' RIGHTS . . . We will act against sexual harassment in the workplace. We will honor the work ethic -- by expanding the earned-income tax credit. . . .
LIFELONG LEARNING . . . We oppose the Bush Administration's efforts to bankrupt the public school system . . . through private school vouchers. . . . We will expand child health and nutrition programs and extend Head Start to all eligible children, and guarantee all children access to quality, affordable child care. . . . We will adopt a national apprenticeship-style program to ease the transition from school to work for noncollege-bound students, so they can acquire skills that lead to high-wage jobs. . . .
A DOMESTIC G.I. BILL . . . A Domestic G.I. Bill will enable all Americans to borrow money for college, so long as they are willing to pay it back as a percentage of their income over time or through national service addressing unmet community needs.
AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE All Americans should have universal access to quality, affordable health care -- not as a privilege but as a right. . . . We must be united in declaring war on AIDS and H.I.V. disease. . . .
FAIRNESS . . . We will relieve the tax burden on middle-class Americans by forcing the rich to pay their fair share. We will provide long-overdue tax relief to families with children. . . .
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT . . . We will . . . push for revenue-neutral incentives that reward conservation, prevent pollution and encourage recycling.
CIVIL AND EQUAL RIGHTS . . . Democrats will continue to lead the fight to insure that no Americans suffer discrimination or deprivation of rights on the basis of race, gender, language, national origin, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or other characteristics irrelevant to ability. We support ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment, . . . civil rights protection for gay men and lesbians and an end to Defense Department discrimination. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	
 
II. RESPONSIBILITY

 	 	 		. . .	 	We offer a new social contract based neither on callous, do-nothing Republican neglect nor on an outdated faith in programs as the solution to every problem. We favor a third way beyond the old approaches -- to put government back on the side of citizens who play by the rules. . . .
STRENGTHENING THE FAMILY . . . Children should not have children. We need a national crackdown on deadbeat parents. . . .Family and medical leave will insure that workers don't have to choose between family and work. . . . We favor insuring quality and affordable child-care opportunities for working parents. . . .
WELFARE REFORM Welfare should be a second chance, not a way of life. We want to break the cycle of welfare by adhering to two simple principles: no one who is able to work can stay on welfare forever, and no one who works should live in poverty. . . . We'll invest in education and job training, and provide the child care and health care they need to go to work and achieve long-term self-sufficiency. We will give them the help they need to make the transition from welfare to work, and require people who can work to go to work within two years in available jobs either in the private sector or in community service to meet unmet needs. . . .
CHOICE Democrats stand behind the right of every woman to choose, consistent with Roe v. Wade, regardless of ability to pay, and support a national law to protect that right. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	LABOR-MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES . . . If a company wants to overpay its executives and underinvest in the future or transfer jobs overseas, it shouldn't get special treatment and tax breaks. . . . Workers must also accept added responsibilities in the new economy. In return for an increased voice and a greater stake in the success of their enterprises, workers should be prepared to join in cooperative efforts to increase productivity, flexibility and quality. . . .
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENVIRONMENT . . . We will protect our old-growth forests, preserve critical habitats, provide a genuine "no net loss" policy on wetlands, conserve the critical resources of soil, water and air, oppose new offshore oil drilling and mineral exploration and production in our nation's many environmentally critical areas and address ocean pollution by reducing oil and toxic waste spills at sea. We believe America's youth can serve their country well through a civilian conservation corps. . . .
RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT . . . Rather than throwing money at obsolete programs, we will eliminate unnecessary layers of management, cut administrative costs, give people more choices in the service they get and empower them to make those choices. . . .
RESPONSIBLE OFFICIALS . . . We must limit overall campaign spending and limit the disproportionate and excessive role of PAC's. We need new voter registration laws that expand the electorate, such as universal same-day registration. . . .
 
III. RESTORING COMMUNITY

 	 	 		. . .	 	Republican leaders have urged Americans to turn inward, to pursue private interests without regard to public responsibilities. By playing racial, ethnic and gender-based politics, they have divided us against each other. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	We take special pride in our country's emergence as the world's largest and most successful multiethnic, multiracial republic. We condemn anti-Semitism, racism, homophobia, bigotry and negative stereotyping of all kinds. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	COMBATING CRIME AND DRUGS Crime is a relentless danger in our communities. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	The simplest and most direct way to restore order in our cities is to put more police on the streets. . . . We will create a Police Corps, in which participants will receive college aid in return for several years of service after graduation in a state or local police department. . . . We will expand drug counseling and treatment for those who need it. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	FIREARMS . . . We support a reasonable waiting period to permit background checks for purchases of handguns, as well as assault weapons controls to ban the possession, sale, importation and manufacture of the most deadly assault weapons. We do not support efforts to restrict weapons used for legitimate hunting and sporting purposes. . . .
PURSUING ALL CRIME AGGRESSIVELY . . . Democrats will redouble efforts to ferret out and punish those who betray the public trust, rig financial markets, misuse their depositors' money or swindle their customers. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	EMPOWERING THE POOR AND EXPANDING THE MIDDLE CLASS . . . We advocate slower phasing out of Medicaid and other benefits to encourage work, special savings accounts to help low-income families build assets, fair lending, an indexed minimum wage, an expanded Job Corps and an end to welfare rules that encourage family breakup and penalize individual initiative. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	HOUSING . . . We must also confront homelessness by renovating, preserving and expanding the stock of affordable low-income housing. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	THE ARTS We believe in . . . a National Endowment for the Arts that is free from political manipulation. . . .
 
IV. PRESERVING OUR NATIONAL SECURITY
. . . Under President Bush, crises have been managed rather than prevented; dictators like Saddam Hussein have been wooed rather than deterred; aggression by the Serbian regime against its neighbors in what was Yugoslavia has been met by American timidity rather than toughness; human rights abusers have been rewarded, not challenged; the environment has been neglected, not protected, and America's competitive edge in the global economy has been dulled, not honed. . . .
Once again, we must define a compelling vision for global leadership at the dawn of a new era.
 
Restructuring Our Military Forces
 . . . What the United States needs is . . . a comprehensive restructuring of the American military enterprise to meet the threats that remain.
MILITARY STRENGTH America is the world's strongest military power, and we must remain so. A post-cold war restructuring of American forces will produce substantial savings beyond those promised by the Bush Administration, but that restructuring must be achieved without undermining our ability to meet future threats to our security. . . .
USE OF FORCE The United States must be prepared to use military force decisively when necessary to defend our vital interests. The burdens of collective security in a new era must be shared fairly. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	Restoring America's Economic Leadership
. . . Restoring America's global economic leadership must become a central element of our national security policies. . . .
We cannot be strong at home unless we are part of a vibrant and expanding global economy. . . .
TRADE Our Government must work to expand trade while insisting that the conduct of world trade is fair. . . . This should include renewed authority to use America's trading leverage against the most serious problems. . . .
TRADE AGREEMENTS . . . Our Government must assure that our legitimate concerns about environmental, health and safety, and labor standards are included. Those American workers whose jobs are affected must have the benefit of effective adjustment assistance.
 
Promoting Democracy
 . . . An American foreign policy of engagement for democracy must effectively address:
EMERGING DEMOCRACIES Helping to lead an international effort to assist the emerging . . . democracies in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	SOUTH AFRICA Maintenance of state and local sanctions against South Africa . . . until there is an irreversible, full and fair accommodation with the black majority to create a democratic government with full rights for all its citizens.
MIDDLE EAST PEACE Support for the peace process now under way in the Middle East. . . . Jerusalem is the capital of the state of Israel and should remain an undivided city accessible to people of all faiths.
 
Preserving
The Global Environment


 	 	 		. . .	 	ADDRESSING GLOBAL WARMING The United States must become a leader, not an impediment, in the fight against global warming. We should join our European allies in agreeing to limit carbon dioxide emissions to 1990 levels by the year 2000.
OZONE DEPLETION The United States must be a world leader in finding replacements for CFC's and other ozone-depleting substances.
BIODIVERSITY We must work actively to protect the planet's biodiversity and preserve its forests. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	POPULATION GROWTHExplosive population growth must be controlled by working closely with other industrialized and developing nations and private organizations to fund greater family-planning efforts. 

 	 	 		. . .	 	We believe in the American people. We will challenge all Americans to give something back to their country. And they will be enriched in return, for when individuals assume responsibility, they acquire dignity. When people go to work, they rediscover a pride that was lost. When absent parents pay child support, they restore a connection they and their children need. When students work harder, they discover they can learn as well as any on earth. When corporate managers put their workers and long-term success ahead of short-term gain, their companies do well and so do they. When the leaders we elect assume responsibility for America's problems, we will do what is right to move America forward together.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Delegates at the Democratic National Convention showing their support yesterday for affordable health care, which has been incorporated into the party's platform. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); TAX LAW (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



466 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: AMERICAN TAKES HELM IN BELGRADE

BYLINE: By CHUCK SUDETIC, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Yugoslavia, July 14

 BODY:
Promising to halt the bloodshed in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a Serbian-American millionaire from California was sworn in today as the new Yugoslavia's first Prime Minister.
"We respect the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is an independent state," said Milan Panic, a Belgrade-born immigrant to the United States whose Cabinet was given a four-year mandate by a 99-33 vote of Parliament this afternoon. "The most important thing for all Serbs is to stop shooting." 
 Referring tonight at a news conference to a widely condemned campaign by Serbian forces to rid captured Muslim areas of their people and replace them with ethnic Serbs, Mr. Panic said: "Ethnic cleansing is the disgrace of our nation. People are thinking that we are barbarians. I am determined to bring order to Belgrade, Serbia and Yugoslavia."
Mr. Panic (pronounced PAHN-itch) appeared to be heading for a confrontation with Serbia's President, Slobodan Milosevic (pronounced mee-LOH-sheh-veetch), and with other hard-line nationalists. The Serbian republic's Government and militant elements harbor the notion of joining all ethnic Serbs from the old Yugoslav republics in a single state. It is far from clear whether Mr. Panic or these hard-liners will prevail on this matter.
Speaking of Mr. Milosevic, the Prime Minister said, "I will respect his power, and he will respect mine."
 
A Redesigned Yugoslavia
 Until about a year ago, Yugoslavia was a federation of six republics, with Serbia the largest and most powerful, and Belgrade both the Yugoslav and Serbian republic's capital. With the breakup of that federation, a truncated Yugoslavia has been created, made up of only Serbia and Montenegro.
This means that the Governments of Yugoslavia and Serbia have almost equal power, with Mr. Panic's Government theoretically in charge of the Yugoslav armed forces. But since most of the leadership of these forces is Serbian, Mr. Milosevic has had a significant role to play in military matters.
The 62-year-old Mr. Panic addressed Parliament in Serbo-Croatian with a strong American accent. "The Federal Government," he said, "will do all in its power to effect an immediate cease-fire by all parties to the conflict. I personally promise to do everything in my power for the withdrawal of the heavy weapons that belong to the former Yugoslav national army and remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina."
Yugoslavia officially withdrew its forces from Bosnia in mid-May, and officials here vehemently deny charges that Yugoslav troops and aircraft have since taken part in fighting there.
Mr. Panic said Yugoslavia would have to undertake authentic democratic and economic reforms to induce the United Nations to lift its economic sanctions.
Sounding an unconventional note here, he charged that Serbian forces are working with Croatian militias in Bosnia and Herzegovina to divide that country at the expense of the Muslims, its largest population group.
Serbia, however, insists that Bosnia's Eastern Orthodox Serbs are not aggressors, but the victims of a coalition of Islamic fundamentalists and Roman Catholic Croats.
Also today, Yugoslavia's Federal President, Dobrica Cosic, announced that elections for Parliament and for the Presidencies and assemblies of Serbia and Montenegro would be held beginning Nov. 22.
"The elections will be prepared by a round table of the authorities and the opposition," he said.
 
Consultations With Opposition
 The Serbian Government announced tonight that it would enter into discussions with opposition leaders on campaign regulations, access to the news media, financing of political parties and civil rights.
Mr. Milosevic, who climbed to the top of Serbia's Communist power pyramid by fomenting nationalist sentiment, sat stone-faced today in the front row of Parliament as he listened to Mr. Panic's address.
Belgrade is awash with rumors that Mr. Milosevic may give up the Serbian presidency, either by resigning before his term ends or declining to run in the fall elections.
Mr. Panic also promised that his Cabinet would begin negotiations on the recognition of the four independent republics of the former Yugoslavia -- Slovenia, Croatia, Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina -- as well as the re-establishment of close economic relations between them and the new Yugoslavia. "Other countries have recognized these states," he said. "They are members of the United Nations. Who are we not to recognize them?"
Alluding to the status of the Serbian ethnic minorities in Croatia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, he said: "We just have to negotiate about our people. We need guarantees of rights."
Mr. Panic also became the first Serbian officeholder in recent memory to express support for self-determination for the ethnic Albanians who make up 90 percent of the population of Kosovo, a restive Serbian province. Mr. Milosevic crushed regional autonomy in Kosovo and suppressed Albanian rights.
The new Prime Minister told Parliament, which is controlled by former Communists, that his Cabinet would do all it could to create the conditions necessary for refugees to return to their homes, including humanitarian aid and guarantees of personal safety.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A woman mourned her husband after his burial yesterday in Sarajevo. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); MONTENEGRO (92%); CROATIA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (96%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; MONTENEGRO (YUGOSLAVIA); SARAJEVO (YUGOSLAVIA); BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA SERBIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); MONTENEGRO (92%); CROATIA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (96%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ARMIES (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); IMMIGRATION (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); ARMED FORCES (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: PANIC, MILAN; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) ; SUDETIC, CHUCK MILAN PANIC (92%); SLOBODAN MILOSEVIC (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



467 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Mexico Push for the Completion of Free-Trade Pact

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, July 14

 BODY:
President Bush and President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico spurred efforts to reach a North American free-trade accord today, ordering their top trade officials to meet this month to discuss compromises on the remaining disputed issues.
The announcement came after a breakthrough in the negotiations on an agreement that will allow American and Canadian banks, insurance companies and securities firms to compete in Mexico. 
 The two leaders disclosed the development at a news conference in San Diego, where Mr. Bush had flown to meet with Mr. Salinas and to attend the Major League Baseball All-Star Game.
 
'Top of the Ninth Inning'
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Salinas said their trade officials would meet on July 25. "In the spirit of this evening's All-Star Game, we are entering the top of the ninth inning of negotiations," they said in a statement.
Administration officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that today's announcement was unlikely to signal an imminent resolution of the remaining trade issues, but that it did underscore the two nations' determination to reach a free-trade accord as soon as possible.
Mexico is the third-largest trading partner of the United States, after Canada and Japan, and trade between the two nations has grown in the last five years at an average annual rate of 16 percent.
 
22 Categories of Issues
 The three top trade officials who will be meeting are Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative; Commerce Secretary Jaime Serra Puche of Mexico, and Michael H. Wilson, Canada's Minister of International Trade and Minister of Industry, Science and Technology.
The three have already met five times since Congress authorized the negotiations to begin nearly 14 months ago, and they have made some progress on the 22 categories of issues in the negotiations. These issues include opening up Mexico's energy and financial services industries to United States and Canadian companies, reducing tariffs and strengthening copyright protections.
The communique issued after the meeting of the two leaders called for trade officials to conclude an agreement as soon as possible, but it did not specify that the next meeting would be the last one. Administration officials were skeptical that the next meeting would iron out all of the remaining issues.
The United States and Mexico have very different interests in completing a deal. The Bush Administration sees it as a way to tear down Mexico's many trade barriers and cement in an international agreement the broad economic policy changes made by President Salinas, who has privatized many banks and reduced Government controls on businesses.
So American negotiators have sought -- and obtained in many cases -- broad concessions from Mexico to reduce tariffs and allow United States companies into Mexican markets.
Mexican officials have also wanted to cement its economic changes with an international agreement that would be binding on their successors. But faced with relatively few American trade barriers, they have pursued an agreement as a way to create international confidence in the country and thereby encourage American and other foreign companies to build factories there and sign long-term contracts with Mexican businesses.
The talks received a push this month after negotiators struck a deal on the financial services portion of the agreement. The deal would throw open the Mexican banking, insurance and securities industries by Jan. 1, 2000, to virtually unrestricted competition from Canadian and United States companies.
All in all, final legal texts have been drafted for less than half of the 22 categories of issues, and in several areas negotiators have not yet even decided the broad outlines for what the texts should say.
Many environmental and labor groups have opposed a free trade agreement, warning that jobs will be lost and that American companies will move polluting factories south of the border to take advantage of Mexico's lax environmental regulations.
The Citizens' Trade Campaign, a coalition of several dozen of these groups, prepared 50,000 mock baseball cards at today's All-Star baseball game, which President Bush and President Salinas attended. The cards have a short list of complaints on one side about the planned North American free trade agreement, also known as N.A.F.T.A.
On the other side are caricatures of the two leaders and the words, "Don't let them throw you a curve! Strike out N.A.F.T.A.!"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (68%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ACCORD AS (68%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MEXICO MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); BASEBALL (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); INSURANCE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); COPYRIGHT (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



468 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
A former employee was awarded $7.5 million by a Federal judge for evidence that a Binghamton, N.Y., military contractor had systematically defrauded the Pentagon in the 1980's. The company, now known as CAE-Link Corporation, was owned during the period at issue by the Singer Corporation. The award went to Christopher M. Urda, a 35-year-old auditor. [A1.]
General Motors, overhauling its marketing and communications staff, promoted Philip Guarascio to general manager of marketing and advertising for North American operations. Marina v.N. Whitman, heads of public affairs and marketing, and James B. Fitzpatrick, vice president of marketing, will retire. [D1.]
American Airlines plans to raise fares 4.4 percent starting on Saturday, and to impose various additional increases in some markets. Northwest and United plan similar actions. [D4.]
Three brokerage firms reported strong second-quarter results. Merrill Lynch was up 23.5 percent; Paine Webber, 35.5 percent, and Primerica, parent of Smith Barney, 28.3 percent. [D2.]
Westinghouse earnings were down 3.9 percent, to $122 million, from $127 million a year earlier. [D4.]
Harvey A. Weinberg, chairman of Hartmarx, unexpectedly handed over the reins of the embattled apparel manufacturing and retail company to Elbert O. Hand, its president. [D4.]
Ernst & Young agreed to a $1.6 million settlement of accusations that it helped Charles H. Keating Jr. deceive the Government about the health of his failed Lincoln Savings and Loan. [D4.]
 
The Economy
Consumers spent a little more money last month than in May as retail sales rose 0.5 percent, but the Consumer Price Index rose just three-tenths of 1 percent, the Government reported. [D1.]
Sales of U.S.-made cars and trucks fell 6.7 percent in early July against the corresponding period a year earlier. [D2.]
Top trade negotiators of the U.S. and Mexico are to meet to expedite a free-trade pact, Presidents Bush and Gortari agreed. [D18.]
 
Business Technology
The visual-arts field known as digital imaging has drawn more than 2,000 professional artists and photographers to Kodak's Center for Creative Imaging in Maine. [D5.]
NASA has commissioned a study on sonic booms as part of a program to develop a big supersonic commercial airplane. [D5.]
 
 Markets
Z. Lou Guttman, New York Merc chairman, has been told by the C.F.T.C. enforcement staff that it plans to recommend that civil charges of commodity violations be brought against him. [D2.]
The Dow Jones industrial average tacked on 21.08 points to close at 3,358.39, buoyed by late buying in energy stocks. [D6.]
Prices of most Treasury securities moved higher, but long-term bond yields remained high. [D13.] New York banks reduced the average money market yield 6 points to 3.14 percent. [D16.]
Cocoa futures plunged $45 a ton on talk that Ivory Coast and Ghana were selling. [D14.] The dollar generally fell. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
American Express and Visa are jousting over TV sponsorship of the Olympic Games. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]
Super Valu, the most profitable company in an industry in which the United States is the recognized world leader, is largely ignored by Wall Street. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (72%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2337 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' SUITS, SKIRTS, & COATS (55%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (55%); SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (72%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); W-DIAMOND GROUP CORP (55%); NEW YORK MERC (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (77%); BONDS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (74%); AIRLINES (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (74%); ENERGY MARKETS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); COCOA MARKETS (72%); RETAIL SALES (71%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (70%); FUTURES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); VISUAL ARTS (66%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (64%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (61%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); APPAREL MFG (51%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREW SMITH (56%); HARVEY A WEINBERG (55%); ELBERT O HAND (55%); CHARLES H KEATING JR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



469 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 6; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: DEMOCRATS IN NEW YORK -- PARTY LEADERSHIP;
1992 Ticket Puts Council Of Moderates To Stiff Test

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
Since its creation, the Democratic Leadership Council has argued that it understands how to put a Democrat back in the White House. Now, it will be put to the test.
"If we don't win with this ticket, everything we've been talking about is on the line," said Senator John B. Breaux of Louisiana, the chairman of the group. 
 This convention marks the triumph of the leadership council, a group of centrist and conservative Democrats that set out to remake their national party seven years ago. The group feels the same proud paternity toward Gov. Bill Clinton that the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations felt toward Walter F. Mondale in 1984.
It is understandable: Mr. Clinton was the chairman of the group until a year ago. Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, whom he has chosen as his running mate, was among its founders. The platform that the Democrats approved last night highlights cherished concepts of the council like national service, economic growth and personal responsibility.
 
Effort to Reshape Party
 The council's history is bound up in the history of the Democratic Party and its struggle to redefine itself in the Reagan era and reclaim the political center. It was formed in the spring of 1985, when finger-pointing was intense after Mr. Mondale's 49-state defeat. Many Democrats, particularly in the South, felt they had been burdened with a national ticket that was far too liberal for their constituents. They feared it would happen again and again.
"There is a perception that our party has moved away from mainstream America in the 1970's," Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia, a founder of the group, said at the time.
The council was formed in defiance of the leadership of the Democratic National Committee, which worried that it would further divide the party on regional and philosophical lines. The founders were elected officials, mainly from the West and South and from the center-right of the party.
Many Democrats considered it something of an outlaw group in those early days, with its occasional bashing of the national party and its distance from core Democratic constituencies. Over the years, it clashed with organized labor, liberals and the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who derided it memorably as the Democratic Leisure Class.
Over the years, the council became more and more of a debating forum and think tank, promoting ideas like national service, in which young people pay back their college tuition through community work like tutoring.
 
New Pragmatic Approach
 It preached a new emphasis on economic growth and competitiveness, on ending welfare dependency, on values like work and responsibility. It also talked of finding a "new choice" or a "third way" that was beyond left and right -- a pragmatic approach to the needs of a changing society.
But the group always had a high ambition quotient. It was a showcase for potential Presidential contenders, including Mr. Nunn and Mr. Gore. Many members of the leadership council were instrumental in the creation of Super Tuesday in 1988, a day of Southern primaries that they hoped would propel a centrist nominee.
For Mr. Clinton, who became chairman in 1990, the council was an invaluable platform. "It was a perfect marriage," Senator Breaux said. "I think Bill was very much interested in expanding his base nationally, and the D.L.C. was very interested in working with him in developing the 'new choice' philosophy."
Several of Mr. Clinton's advisers are associated with the council, including Al From, who has headed the group from the start.
The council is based in Washington, along with its policy offshoot, the Progressive Policy Institute, and has a combined staff of 18 people.
The council, a nonprofit group that cannot endorse candidates, has generated its share of controversy. Its critics, particularly among labor and liberals, point to its heavy reliance on corporate contributions; Mr. From estimates it draws 60 percent of its money from corporations.
Moreover, not everyone sees this platform and this ticket as a philosophical coup by the leadership council. For one thing, Mr. Clinton's campaign expanded far beyond the council in the course of winning the nomination; when he was running against former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, for example, Mr. Clinton sounded very much like a traditional Democrat.
Rex Hardesty, the spokesman for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., is hardly willing to concede victory to the council, which has tangled with organized labor over trade issues. "I think you'll find the platform much more all-inclusive," Mr. Hardesty said.
Still, the leadership council revels in its victory, while recognizing its new risks. "We've come a long way," Senator Nunn said in an interview from the floor of the convention last night. "The job remaining is twofold: to win in November and to govern."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP COUNCIL; DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); AFL-CIO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP COUNCIL; DEMOCRATIC PARTY AFL-CIO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); TUITION FEES (60%); 

PERSON: BREAUX, JOHN (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); TONER, ROBIN BILL CLINTON (78%); AL GORE (58%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



470 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Sales of U.S.-Made Vehicles Decreased 6.7% in Early July

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: DETROIT, July 14

 BODY:
Sales of cars and trucks made in the United States fell 6.7 percent in early July against the corresponding period a year earlier, as demand for light trucks stumbled for the first time in two months and rental-car orders declined slightly.
The Big Three American auto makers and seven Japanese companies with production plants in this country sold a combined 252,394 cars and light trucks from July 1 to 10, compared with 270,499 vehicles for the period a year ago. 
 Domestic cars sales fell 9.7 percent, to 154,222 units, while light-truck sales slipped 1.6 percent, to 98,172 vehicles.
On a seasonally adjusted basis, domestic car sales were at an annual rate of 6.5 million units. That matches the average rate for all of June, and compares with 7.1 million a year earlier and 7.5 million in late June.
The early July period of both years had only eight actual selling days because of to the Independence Day holiday.
David Garrity, analyst at McDonald & Company, an investment firm in New York, said domestic light trucks sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.9 million, down from a 4.6 million rate in late June.
The slide took many experts by surprise because light-truck sales have been strong for most of the year. Mr. Garrity said a shift in seasonal factors used to calculate the annual rate contributed to the decline, adding that the numbers should be viewed with skepticism.
"I'm willing to hold out and say let's see what comes in the second 10-day selling period in July before we start worrying about production schedules being cut or inventories piling up," Mr. Garrity said.
The General Motors Corporation said domestic car sales skidded 16.1 percent in early July to 73,628 units from 87,759 a year earlier. G.M.'s light-truck sales fell 8.8 percent, to 38,164, from 41,859 in the corresponding period last year.
The Chrysler Corporation sold an estimated 11,875 cars in early July, down 32.1 percent from the corresponding period a year ago, according to Ward's Automotive Reports. Ward's said Chrysler's light-truck sales rose 1.6 percent, to 23,225. Chrysler only reports sales on a monthly basis.
 
Showroom Traffic Slow
 The Ford Motor Company said domestic car sales surged 16 percent in the period to 49,188, but light-truck sales rose only 1.3 percent, to 32,394.
Joel Pitcoff, a Ford spokesman, said advance orders from rental-car companies offset the lack of a key Saturday selling period this year because of the Independence Day holiday. Many dealers around the country were closed for the holiday and those that stayed open noticed sharply slower showroom traffic for the period as a whole.
Among Japanese car manufacturers, the Honda Motor Company said United States car sales slumped 30 percent in early July. The Toyota Motor Corporation sales in this country slipped 3 percent.
The Mazda Motor Corporation was the only Japanese car maker to report higher car sales for the period, with a gain of 40.7 percent.
The surge in Ford's sales enabled American auto makers to grab nearly a whole percentage point of the domestic car market from their Japanese rivals.
G.M., Ford and Chrysler sold 87.3 percent of all domestic cars in the period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); HMC (NYSE) (81%); 7267 (TSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (82%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (81%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (65%); MCDONALD INVESTMENTS INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; SALES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (79%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (72%); 

PERSON: DAVID GARRITY (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



471 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: State Agrees to Buy Two Parks And a Zoo To Help Bridgeport

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: HARTFORD, July 14

 BODY:
In a move aimed at giving the city of Bridgeport an economic lift and preserving open spaces in urban areas, the state Bond Commission today approved the $15.8 million purchase of two parks and a zoo owned by Connecticut's most financially troubled city.
Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr., who is chairman of the Bond Commission, said the purchase will incorporate Beardsley Park Zoo and the parks into the state parks system and protect them from the possibility of private takeover and development. 
 "This is a huge opportunity for the state of Connecticut to do something for the 135,000 people who live in the city of Bridgeport," Mr. Weicker said.
 
The Only Public Zoo in State
 The Connecticut Zoological Society will take over operation of the zoo, according to the Governor, who noted that the Beardsley Park Zoo is the only public zoo operating in Connecticut, "aside from the institution we sit in," an apparent reference to state government.
The overall purchase includes $3.6 million for 160 acres and improvements in Beardsley Park, $3.2 million for 89 acres and buildings in Fairchild Memorial Park, and $9 million for 51 acres and buildings at the zoo.
Fairchild Memorial Park, although situated in neighboring Trumbull, is owned by the City of Bridgeport.
The purchase, expected to be completed on Jan. 31, would keep the recreational areas open and available to Bridgeport residents. Mr. Weicker said the move is an important step in preserving Connecticut's urban open spaces.
"It's going to be a great shot in the arm for Bridgeport, in a lot of ways," said Mayor Joseph Ganim of Bridgeport, who attended the meeting. "It's a win-win situation both financially and in the fact we'll have a park in the state park system, which will be a big boost for the city.
"Obviously," Mr. Ganim added, "maintaining a zoo is an onerous cost to our city. This will help us get through our financial situation over the next few years."
The state's purchase of the parks and zoo will help reduce debt service payments in current and future Bridgeport municipal budgets, Mr. Ganim said. In its current budget, he said, the city will be able to reduce debt service by $6 million, with another $6 million reduction the following year and a $3.8 million reduction the year after that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOND COMMISSION (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRIDGEPORT (CONN); BEARDSLEY PARK ZOO; CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; ZOOS; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (94%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); STATE PARKS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BONDS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); MAYORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV) LOWELL P WEICKER JR (77%); JOSEPH GANIM (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



472 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: Convention Summary

 BODY:

WITH PLATFORM, DEMOCRATS AIM FOR THE MIDDLE
 Seeking a middle ground between unfettered capitalism and welfare-state economics, the Democrats' platform stresses conservative values and liberal programs. The platform is salted with phrases like "personal responsibility" and "market forces," but it also endorses universal medical insurance and higher taxes on the wealthy.
 
GOV. BROWN STILL TALKING ABOUT TALKING AT CONVENTION
 The Democrats grudgingly yielded former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. 20 minutes at the podium on Wednesday -- when the three major networks were not scheduled to carry the proceedings. But unlike the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who chose to cooperate with the party, Mr. Brown preferred to keep arguing. His spokesman said there was "no deal," and that he wanted a prime-time slot unconditioned on an endorsement.
 
DEMOCRATS AND DEMONSTRATORS VIE FOR FACE TIME
 The convention may be a ratings bust, but New York's Democrats and demonstrators are treating it like the opportunity of a politicial lifetime. For politicians, tactics for garnering exposure vary from elbowing for position in a staged photo to cruising through 20 events daily. For demonstators, group performance is what counts: 10,000 people held a rally that was part disco and part wake to demand better care for Americans with AIDS.
 
WHO'S THAT RADICAL IN THE BROOKS BROTHERS SHIRT?
 Conventioners figured out to spot New Yorkers, but they were still having trouble separating the moderates from the progressives at their parties. Style cues proved treacherous.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); 

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (78%); JESSE JACKSON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



473 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Temple of the Lord in a Tent in the Bronx

BYLINE: By ARI L. GOLDMAN

 BODY:
Toward evening, when the heat of the summer day had finally broken, they began to arrive by the hundreds under a tent set up on a vacant lot in the Bronx.
Young and old, in shorts and dungarees, in housedresses and sundresses, they came for a touch of that old-time religion usually associated with the American South and the islands of the Caribbean: the outdoor Christian revival meeting. 
 "Who here has special needs?" Pastor Samuel Bulgin asked the makeshift congregation.
A thousand hands went up, including those of the ministers, the ushers and the members of the choir; everyone but the keyboard player, whose hands were busy keeping the inspirational music going.
"Good," said Mr. Bulgin looking out on the crowd. "Because I believe God is still in the needs-answering business."
"Lord, we have many, many, many needs," he prayed. "We need jobs, we need places to live, we need companionship. We are parents concerned about our children. We are children concerned about our parents."
Every head was bowed as the prayers went up from what the pastor called "this canvas cathedral," pitched on hardscrabble land between a fast-food outlet and an auto-transmission shop at Baychester Avenue and Boston Road.
The revival, which ends its five-week run on July 25, was sponsored by the Greater New York Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, but it could have been a project of any one of a number of churches around New York City. Each summer, dozens pitch their tents on vacant lots, especially in Brooklyn and the Bronx.
The Rev. Patricia Reeberg, executive director of the Council of Churches of the City of New York, said that the organization did not have precise figures on the number of tents. But the number is growing, she said, because the recession has had the dual effect of slowing the development of vacant lots and heightening the spiritual needs of New Yorkers, especially the poor.
Some tents, like the Bronx tent of the Adventists', are pitched on private land, in this case rented from the neighboring Kentucky Fried Chicken outlet. Others are on city-owned land, like the giant blue tent of the Brooklyn Tabernacle Deliverance Center, next to Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn.
Over the years, the image of tent revivals has been sullied by charlatans, best epitomized by the fictional Elmer Gantry, whose love for money, women and booze far outstrips his love for God and flock. Sinclair Lewis, who wrote "Elmer Gantry" in 1927, clearly was drawing on the shady evangelists of his day.
Pastor Robert C. Connor, the evangelist who organized the Adventist meeting, said he was well aware that he was working in a medium that many found odious. But he said the tent was used in the urban setting of the Bronx for many of the same reasons they were employed on the frontier.
"People are more comfortable in a tent," said the 52-year-old evangelist, who remembers attending tent meetings as a boy in South Carolina. "It is their turf, their neighborhood. They don't have to dress up like they do when they go to church."
"When you put up a tent," he said, "you reach the unchurched."
Not that the enterprise is without its travails. People walk by with boom boxes. Trucks backfire. Guns fire. On one occasion a few years ago Mr. Connor said that a bullet came whizzing through the tent where he was preaching on a vacant lot in Harlem.
The tents also have an impact on the community. For one thing, they are loud. Eight suitcase-size speakers were set up at various locations around the Adventist tent, carrying the gospel songs and fiery sermons thundering through the neighborhood.
But just a few doors away, people didn't seem to mind. "I'd rather hear that than the crackheads," said one woman, who did not want to be identified, as she sat on her porch.
"We're Catholic but it doesn't bother me," said Hector Cabrera, a carpenter, who was working on his property. "It's always good to hear the word of God."
 
$25,000 for 5 Weeks
 Seventh-day Adventist organizers say that the Bronx crusade costs them about $25,000 for the five-week run. They own the tent and the chairs, but have to pay a modest rental fee for the land as well as for round-the-clock security guards and four portable toilets. They also pay the salaries of the church workers who run the concurrent Vacation Bible School, the "health fair" and the clinic to help people stop smoking.
All the programs are free and, although the plate is passed at all the revival meetings, organizers said that the collection covers less than a quarter of their total costs.
Randall Balmer, a professor of religion at Barnard College, said that tent meetings are "an important part of American religious history and culture" that were especially popular in the American frontier in the 19th century.
"They represent an unabashed populism and its readiness to go to where the people are," he said.
Inside the Bronx tent, things were heating up. Women were fanning themselves with their songbooks. People slapped at mosquitoes on their arms and legs. Fireflies and moths fluttered about.
The evangelist, already in his second week of preaching, showed signs of losing his voice. With the help of Biblical verses flashed on a 10-foot by 10-foot screen, he was explaining the Adventists' reasons for marking the Sabbath on Saturday rather than Sunday like most Christians.
Mr. Connor drew a distinction between "the moral law" as embodied in the Ten Commandments and "the ceremonial law" and "the ordinances" written by Moses.
"Who wrote the moral law?" Mr. Connor asked the congregation.
"God," they answered limply.
"There is something wrong with my voice, but you have no excuses," he said. "Now, who wrote the moral law?"
"God!" they roared.
"And how did He write it?"
"With His finger!" they said as one.
 
The Commandments Endure
 Using Scriptural verses, Mr. Connor sought to demonstrate that while the suffering of Jesus "set aside" the Mosaic law -- in the words of Colossians 2:14, "nailing it to the cross" -- the Ten Commandments "written with the finger of God" (Deuteronomy 9:10) still endure.
"I just want to set the record straight," he said. "When we stand before God, we are going to be judged by those laws."
Recorded music swelled as, in a Charlton Heston-like voice, he recounted the Ten Commandments. "I am the Lord your God," he began.
When he finished, he asked: "Am I making it plain? I am not here to preach. I am here to teach. I want to make it real plain.
"The Fourth Commandment, 'Keep the Sabbath,' is just as important as 'Thou shalt not kill.' "
He ended with this finale: "You've been keeping nine of God's Commandments. Now keep all 10!"
Most of the worshipers were Adventists who were there, they said, to strengthen their faith. Some of them brought friends from outside the church, like Hyacinth Barnes, a nurse, who brought her friend Barbara Brown.
Afterward, the two women debated the merits of Saturday versus Sunday worship. "The only thing you can't fight is the Holy Spirit," Ms. Barnes told her friend.
Others came for the experience. Jennifer Guthrie, a college student who seemed more than a little homesick for her native Jamaica, stayed in her seat as others were leaving and the tent lights were being turned low.
"Back home we do this all year round," she said, looking out into the night. "It just feels good to be here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The number of tent revival meetings is growing, particularly on New York City's vacant lots. "People are more comfortable in a tent," said Pastor Robert C. Connor, who preached under a tent in the Bronx at a meeting for Seventh-day Adventists. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SEVENTH DAY ADVENTISTS KENTUCKY FRIED CHICKEN JAPAN LTD (52%); BROOKLYN TABERNACLE DELIVERANCE CENTER (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEVENTH DAY ADVENTISTS BROOKLYN TABERNACLE DELIVERANCE CENTER (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (90%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); SOUTHEAST USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES; CHRISTIANS AND CHRISTIANITY; TENTS RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); CHILDREN (88%); FAST FOOD (71%); MUSIC (70%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE TRANSMISSION REPAIR SHOPS (68%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDMAN, ARI L; REEBERG, PATRICIA (REV)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



474 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Santa Monica Journal;
Where Only the Ocean Makes Waves

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif.

 BODY:
Jane Fonda has moved to Montana, but this seaside town still has movie stars and fitness factories, along with Tom Hayden and a social conscience. It has art for the masses -- like the two lifeguard chairs that hum in the wind, badly, some residents complain -- storm drain sensors that are activated by pollutants to summon pump trucks, and a city attorney who runs his own feeding program for the homeless on Saturdays.
This year the People's Republic of Santa Monica, as it has been called, had something else it hadn't had in 20 years -- a deficit. "The recession caught up with us," said a City Council member, Denny Zane, who is an environmental consultant. 
 City officials had to reduce tax-supported services by $5.7 million. "We tried not to go into a panic mode," said the city manager, John Jalili, who attributes his calm manner in part to his daily eight-mile run. He said he certainly was not about to recommend anything drastic, like closing the library on Sunday, or slashing services to the homeless.
The seven-member City Council met recently to approve the cuts. Mr. Jalili predicted hours of heated debate. "We're known for our political fervor," he said.
The meeting began with four women in gold lame minidresses and gold high heels and two men in billowing black shirts and black pants performing a New Age rendition, on bells and xylophones, of Dave Brubeck's "Take Five."
This was the "inspiration," as it was listed in the agenda, a Santa Monica substitute for an invocational prayer. The night's performing group was the Campanile Jazz Ensemble. Previous meetings have featured a gospel choir, chanting and Japanese martial arts.
"I thought it was pretty far out," Mr. Zane said, referring to the Brubeck. "It helped create a generous mood."
Forty-five residents had signed up to speak before the Council. Joe Piperski, who owns Joe's Diner on Main Street, expressed compassion for the City Council, saying, "I know you're stressed out."
They didn't look it. Mayor Ken Genser calmly sipped caffeine-free Diet Coke and shared handfuls of peanut M&M's with his fellow Council members.
The meeting went on until 1 A.M. Most of the speakers pleaded for the Council not to cut money for the schools or the homeless. It didn't. Programs for the homeless, in fact, were allotted $1.6 million, up $500,000 from the previous year.
Not everyone was pleased, of course. "I don't think we need any more off-the-wall art projects, or $500,000 bicycle master plans," said Carolyn Caesar, a registered dietician who was there to represent a more conservative section of the city's residents. Or more money for the homeless, she added.
Budget deficit or no, Santa Monica, population 86,905, still has one of the highest municipal bond ratings in the state. It has 400 restaurants and 75 art galleries and it costs $600,000 to buy a two-bedroom cottage on the beach.
The $185.2 million budget was approved, 5 to 2. Major cuts were made by eliminating 60 city jobs through attrition. Also cut were some capital improvements, like the $500,000 for bicycle paths, which had become so controversial that some city officials were afraid to be seen on their bicycles.
The Council allotted $2 million for schools, the same as last year, but $500,000 more than two years ago. Though social services did take a 1 percent cut, they still got a relatively generous $5.7 million.
The Mayor said that he had briefly favored cutting social services, but that he had changed his mind. "I felt really, really good about voting for social services," he said.
Mr. Genser, who is up for re-election next fall, did vote to cut his own travel budget to $4,700 from $8,300.
Another $75,000 was saved by eliminating the July 4 fireworks, traditionally set at 5 A.M. with the Los Angeles Pops providing accompaniment on the beach.
But there is plenty of money, $2.5 million to be exact, for environmental innovations like the storm sensors, as well as a "toilet retrofit" program to help residents save water. The library will stay open seven days a week.
Mr. Jalili and his staff had been working on the budget for weeks, and Mr. Zane gave the city manager much of the credit for making the cuts as painless as possible.
Mr. Jalili seemed a little disappointed. He had only one word for the big budget meeting: "Boring."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Recession has caught up with Santa Monica, Calif., forcing city officials to approve a reduction in tax-supported services. A group of elderly people spent time recently in Palisades Park in the city. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)
 
Map of California showing location of Santa Monica.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SANTA MONICA (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; NYTRAVEL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RUNNING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MAYORS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); TRENDS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (71%); BONDS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); JAZZ & BLUES (64%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (60%); EDUCATION FUNDING (60%); MARTIAL ARTS (50%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



475 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Contractors Reap Gains Promised by Convention

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
In the scramble for the millions of dollars of business generated by New York City's third Democratic convention in 16 years, some well-connected (or just connected) local companies snared big contracts, while others fought over the relative scraps and still others lost out as irrevocably as Edmund G. Brown Jr.
The largest city contract, for a nearly $6 million renovation of Madison Square Garden, went to AJ Contracting Company of Manhattan, which counts a former city official as an executive vice president. It then subcontracted $355,000 in carpentry work to a company named in a mob-related bid-rigging case, Nastasi White Inc. of Flushing, Queens. A less lucrative but highly prestigious contract went to Howard J. Rubenstein Associates. Mr. Rubenstein, crowned as the public relations bonanza's official public relations man, says he is losing money on his $25,000 consultant's contract. 
 For eager vendors the arithmetic has been tantalizing. The city committed itself to spend $20.8 million on the convention. Of this, $6.6 million was earmarked for police overtime and convention security. Some $4 million was for rental of the Garden, and most of the rest was for construction alterations.
For this, the city figured to earn $27 million in extra taxes on $190 million in direct spending by the approximately 25,000 visitors, according to NY92, a partnership between the city and a committee of business sponsors who raised $6.5 million in private grants and in-kind contributions. Secondary spending on things like hotel renovation was expected to generate an additional $280 million.
The biggest single prize was the general contract for renovation of the Garden. The Economic Development Corporation, a nonprofit public development unit under contract to the city, advertised in papers for minority groups and city journals and winnowed down 31 proposals to select 10 contractors for follow-up interviews, said James A. Schmidt, the unit's executive vice president. Seven were invited to submit two figures, for both an early and a late start on the work, depending on the playoff fortunes of the Knicks and the Rangers.
 
An Experienced Bidder
 Five sent in bids and of these, AJ Contracting came in lowest, at $5.94 million for an early start, more than $1 million less than the next lowest, figures show. The company prepared the sites for the 1976, 1980 and 1984 Democratic conventions and has as its executive vice president and a partner, Kenneth D. Smith, an engineer who worked for the city from 1971 until 1980. He was chief of staff in the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development and assistant deputy commissioner in the Department of Real Estate.
The president of one company interviewed but not invited to bid for the general contract, Andrew Velez of the Velez Organization in Manhattan, said yesterday that he felt misled and contended that as a minority enterprise with a record of multimillion-dollar jobs, his company should have been allowed to bid.
Mr. Schmidt said the Velez company was not considered among the most qualified and denied that AJ Contracting had been shown any favoritism. He also said there was no requirement to let the contract to a minority company, although some news accounts, citing the Chilean background of AJ's president, Charles Uribe, mistakenly identified the firm as owned by a member of a minority group. This led to a recent charge by the New Alliance Party candidate for President, Lenora B. Fulani, that the Democrats were exaggerating the proportion of contracts awarded to companies owned by members of minority groups.
Among the subcontractors chosen by AJ Contracting was Nastasi White, which, with a New Jersey-based company, Improved Dry Wall Inc., which is owned by a member of a minority group, shared a $666,000 carpentry job.
Nastasi White, which was one of AJ's subcontractors for previous conventions, was taken off city projects by former Mayor Edward I. Koch after the company came up in an investigation of an alleged payoff by a former plasterers' union official. According to Robert Maas, an assistant district attorney in Manhattan, the union official, Louis D. Moscatiello, was recorded while giving money to an informant, Mel Eckhaus, saying that it came from a company official, Thomas Nastasi.
The company, while never indicted, is also cited in a continuing civil racketeering case brought by the United States Attorney in the Southern District of New York against the carpenters' district council and organized crime figures linked to the Genovese crime family.
Company officials did not respond to messages left at the Nastasi White office.
Mr. Schmidt and Frank Marino, a spokesman for AJ, defended the subcontract award, saying that the Nastasi company had a good record of performance and had not been charged with wrongdoing.
Although Henry Miller, the chief executive officer of NY92, declined to give the amount being paid by his group to Mr. Rubenstein until the group's official expense filing, Mr. Rubenstein said he would get $25,000. He said it was less than half his cost in devoting 11 employees to organizing news coverage for the 15,000 reporters present.
Among other happy contractors was Robert See, whose company, See Factor Industry of Long Island City, Queens, was hired for nearly $300,000 by AJ Contracting to put up the 90 tons of ceiling spotlights and rigging and work with other specialists on effects.
He wouldn't say if he was a Democrat. "Money knows no political boundaries," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER; AJ CONTRACTING COMPANY; DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION HOWARD J RUBENSTEIN ASSOCIATES INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER; AJ CONTRACTING COMPANY; DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONTRACTS CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITIES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (77%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (72%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (61%); 

PERSON: BLUMENTHAL, RALPH JERRY BROWN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



476 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Coke's 2d-Period Net Grew, But Shipments Were Weak

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
The Coca-Cola Company said yesterday that second-quarter net income advanced 20 percent despite weak shipments in important markets, including the United States, Japan, Brazil and Mexico.
Despite the sharp jump in profits, Coke's shares dropped 62.5 cents yesterday, closing at $41.50 on the New York Stock Exchange. While earnings matched analysts' expectations, Coke's shipments of concentrate to bottlers were lower than expected. 
 "People looked at the shipment numbers and got concerned," said Emanuel Goldman, a beverage analyst with Paine Webber. The stock fell as much as $1 during the day.
In the second quarter, Coke earnings rose to $581 million, or 44 cents a share, from $482.4 million, or 36 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Sales grew 17 percent, to $3.55 billion from $3.03 billion.
Roberto C. Goizueta, chairman, said the earnings "demonstrated once again the ability of our global enterprise to deliver impressive, profitable growth despite difficult economic climates in some of our key markets."
Martin Romm of First Boston called Coke's profit performance impressive, given that volume declined in four of the company's top five markets. "It shows how well they are managing the business," he said.
Marc Cohen, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs, said, "It is a little disappointing to see volume down, but I don't see it as earth-shattering."
In the second quarter, worldwide sales of concentrates inched up 2 percent.
In the United States, gallon sales of concentrate to bottlers fell 2.5 percent. The company tied the drop to a slow economy and said grocers were letting inventories run low.
Roy Burry, an analyst with Kidder, Peabody, said it was unclear whether industry sales had slowed or whether Coke was losing sales to Pepsico Inc.
Case sales in the important Japanese market fell 6 percent in the second quarter. The company said June was very rainy and cool in Japan. Analysts believe that Japan accounts for about 20 percent of Coke's profits.
Case sales fell 4 percent in Latin America, mostly because of drops of 20 percent in Brazil and 5 percent in Mexico.
Mr. Goizueta said the soft performance in those markets was more than offset by solid results in Coke's other markets. In the European Community, case sales increased 14 percent, including gains of 25 percent in France, 17 percent in Britain, and 12 percent in Germany and Italy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (90%); PEP (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (65%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (93%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO COCA-COLA CO (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); PEPSICO INC (65%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (93%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%); CENTRAL EUROPE (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN ROBERTO C GOIZUETA (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



477 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: Yields Continue to Plunge For Bank Funds and C.D.'s

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
With the drop in the Federal discount rate and the subsequent cut in the prime lending rate by most big banks nearly two weeks old, banks were still chopping yields on money market accounts and certificates of deposit in the week ended today.
In contrast to the pricing of bank yields in the latest week, discount rates at the Treasury's weekly auction of three- and six-month bills on Monday saw only a slight downtick. The auction is considered a barometer of what many banks will eventually pay to their depositors. 
 The average rate on a three-month bill at auction was 3.22 percent, down a basis point, or a hundredth of a percentage point, from the previous auction, while the six-month bill also slipped a basis point, to 3.31 percent.
 
Unusually Fast Drop
 According to analysts at The Bank Rate Monitor, the sharpness of the declines in bank-fund yields in the latest week was surprising. He said that a half-point cut in the prime rate would usually causes yields on C.D.'s to fall 25 to 33 basis points in six weeks. "It appears that this may happen in two weeks," said Robert K. Heady, publisher of The Monitor.
"Consumers may have to get used to sub-3 percent yields, as banks do not appear to be squeamish about chopping yields as depositors flee to higher paying investments," Mr. Heady said."
New York area banks reduced the average money market account and six-month certificate by 6 basis points, to 3.14 percent and 3.42 percent, respectively; the average three-month certificate was cut 7 basis points, to 3.23 percent.
Commercial banks, which make up part of the New York average, were more aggressive in lowering yields than their savings bank counterparts, lowering money market accounts 6 basis points, to 2.90 percent; three-month certificates 9 basis points, to 3.01 percent, and six-month C.D.'s 7 basis points, to 3.15 percent.
Savings banks, the other part of the New York average, were less aggressive, but just as thorough, lowering the average yield on money market accounts 5 basis points, to 3.39 percent; three-month certificates 7 basis points, to 3.45 percent, and six-month C.D.'s 4 basis points, to 3.69 percent.
The largest yield adjustments at a New York area bank was at the Hartford-based Connecticut National Bank, which lowered its money market 36 basis points, to 3.04 percent; its three-month certificate 51 basis points, to 3.05 percent, and its six-month C.D. 31 basis points, to 3.36 percent.
Yields at 20 large banks outside the New York market were also down sharply, with an average bank money market account off 7 basis points, to 3.04 percent, and a six-month certificate, down 13 basis points to 3.29 percent.


GRAPHIC: Annual effective yields, in percent, on money market accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, July 15,1992. Some C.D. yields assume reinvestment after maturity. Yields are based on the method of compounding and the rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account, but minimums vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only.

 	 	 	 		Money	3-mo.	6-mo.	New York Area	Mkt.	C.D.	C.D.	 	 	 	 	COMMERCIAL BANKS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Banco Popular	3.56	3.05	3.15	Bank of N.Y.	2.79	2.84	2.94	Bank of Tokyo Trust	2.79	2.69	2.68	Chase Manhattan	2.74	2.99	3.05	Chemical	2.53	2.84	2.94	Citibank	2.75	2.65	2.70	Conn. Nat'l Bank	3.04	3.05	3.36	EAB	2.79	3.05	3.10	First Fidelity (N.J.)	3.25	3.70	4.00	Fleet Bank (Conn)	2.75	3.04	3.35	Manufacturers Hanover	2.53	2.84	2.94	Marine Midland	2.78	2.78	2.84	Midlantic Bank (N.J.)	3.25	3.40	3.80	Nat'l Westminster	3.05	3.15	3.20	Republic Nat'l	2.84	3.15	3.20	 	 	 	 	SAVINGS BANKS	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Anchor Savings	3.45	3.50	3.75	Apple Bank Savings	3.35	3.25	3.46	Astoria Fed Savings	2.94	3.30	3.40	Carteret Savings (N.J.)	3.56	3.80	4.00	Crossland Savings	3.40	3.50	3.70	Dime Savings Bank	3.45	3.35	3.60	Emigrant Savings	3.35	3.25	3.45	First Fed (Rochester)	3.25	3.40	3.65	First Nationwide	3.40	3.35	3.39	Greater NY Savings	3.35	3.35	3.65	Green Point Savings	3.50	N.O.	3.70	Home Savings Amer	3.40	3.41	3.67	Howard Savings (N.J.)	3.50	3.65	4.25	Hudson City SB (N.J.)	3.82	4.00	4.15	People's Bank (Conn.)	3.09	3.20	3.46	
 	 	 	 	 		Money	Wkly.	6 Mo.	Wkly.	Major Banks Outside N.Y.	Mkt.	Chg.	C.D.	Chg.	 	 	 	 	 	Bank of Boston	3.09	-0.11	3.35	-0.16	Bank One Texas (Dallas)	2.99	0.00	3.30	-0.10	Citibank, S.D.	3.00	-0.26	3.64	-0.21	Fidelity Bank (Philadelphia)	3.25	0.00	3.40	-0.25	First Bank (Minnesota)	2.84	-0.05	3.20	-0.10	First Interstate (L.A.)	3.10	+0.06	3.09	-0.21	First National (Chicago)	3.04	0.00	3.20	0.00	First Union (Charlotte, N.C.)	3.10	0.00	3.00	-0.40	Fleet Bank (Boston)	3.09	-0.11	3.46	0.00	Maryland Natl	3.25	0.00	3.60	-0.15	Mellon (Pittsburgh)	3.04	-0.26	3.20	-0.10	Meridian Bank (Reading Pa)	2.78	0.00	3.50	-0.15	NationsBank (Atlanta)	3.04	-0.16	3.43	-0.37	National Bank (Detroit)	3.24	-0.31	3.15	-0.20	NCNB Tampa	3.00	0.00	3.20	0.00	Seafirst (Seattle)	3.00	0.00	3.40	0.00	Shawmut Bank (Boston)	3.09	-0.21	3.40	-0.15	Texas Commerce (Houston)	2.78	0.00	3.20	-0.10	Union Bank (S.F.)	3.04	0.00	3.10	0.00	Wachovia (Winston Salem, N.C.)	3.00	0.00	3.00	0.00	
 
N.A. Rate not available; N.O. Not offered
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach 33408)
Table: "Bank Money Accounts"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (65%); MINNESOTA, USA (59%); 

CITY: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); READING, PA, USA (74%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (65%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (59%); DALLAS, TX, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL-BANK AG (51%); NATIONAL BANK LIFE INSURANCE CO (51%); NATIONAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT (51%); NATIONAL BANK SECURITIES INC (51%); NATIONAL BANK FINANCIAL (51%); NATIONAL BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL & TOURISTIC DEVELOPMENT (51%); NEW YORK (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (65%); MINNESOTA, USA (59%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); READING, PA, USA (74%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (65%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (59%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (59%); DALLAS, TX, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BANKS AND BANKING; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET FUNDS INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); PRIME RATES (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); BONDS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); 

PERSON: ROBERT K HEADY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



478 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rises on Expectation Of Meeting of Bundesbank

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose against major foreign currencies yesterday in what traders described as technical dealing ahead of a German central bank meeting later this week.
Gold prices rose. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery was quoted at $351.10 per troy ounce, up $2 from late Monday. A late bid from the Republic National Bank of New York quoted it at $350.60 a troy ounce, up $1.90. 
 The dollar's rise came at the expense of the German mark and the Japanese yen, traders said. The mark fell after a two-day rally spurred by persistent speculation that Germany's Bundesbank might soon increase interest rates. Some traders sold the mark during the session and bought dollars in technically driven trading.
The technical selling also hit the Japanese yen, traders said.
Alex Scarsini, a trader for Continental Illinois National Bank in Chicago, said expectations were building concerning a meeting scheduled for tomorrow of the Bundesbank's central bank council. The dollar could advance solidly against the mark if the Germans decide not to raise rates at that session, he said.
In late European trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.4890 German marks, up from 1.4780 on Monday. At the close in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.4845 marks, up from 1.4755 the day before.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 124.95 yen, down 0.23 yen from Monday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 124.95 yen. At closing in New York, the dollar was quoted at 125.10, up from 124.85 late Monday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.9140, from $1.9285 late Monday. The pound was trading at $1.9200 at closing in New York, less expensive than late Monday's rate of $1.9295.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (84%); HSB (PAR) (84%); HBC (NYSE) (84%); 0005 (HKSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (84%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (93%); GERMAN MARK (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



479 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Up 0.5% in June; Consumer Prices Rose 0.3%

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Consumers spent a little more money last month than in May, but consumer prices stayed relatively well behaved, the Government reported yesterday.
Both reports underscored the sluggish pace of the economic recovery in the quarter ended in June. 
 "The retail sales report was very weak," said Cynthia Latta, an economist at Data Resources/McGraw Hill.
But economists said the silver lining was the continued absence of cost pressures.
"The inflation dragon isn't dead, but he's tame," said John E. Silvia, chief economist at Kemper Financial Services in Chicago. "Politically, that gives the Fed some flexibility."
 
Retail Sales
 Retail sales of goods, which account for about one-third of the gross domestic product, rose five-tenths of 1 percent in June, the Department of Commerce reported yesterday. The agency also revised its May report on retail sales up to four-tenths of 1 percent from the previously reported two-tenths of 1 percent.
But most of the June increase reflected brisker car sales, which ran at an annualized rate of about 6.5 million domestic models last month, a rate that continued in the first 10 days in July. Most of the gains, however, reflected purchases by rental fleets.
"Consumers weren't buying many more cars in June than in May," Ms. Latta said.
Spending on items other than cars edged up just one-tenth of 1 percent. "The weather wasn't steamy hot in June," Ms. Latta added, "so nobody was rushing out to buy fans, air-conditioners and bikinis."
Sales of building materials dropped sharply, a sign of weakness in the housing market.
But discounting lifted clothing sales for the second straight month. And higher pump prices inflated gasoline sales.
Overall spending in June was 3 percent or so higher than a year earlier, but the average for the second quarter was below that of the first. That suggests that consumer spending did not contribute much, if at all, to economic growth in the spring. DRI/McGraw Hill's G.D.P. forecast for the second quarter has assumed that modestly higher spending on services will just offset lower spending on goods.
In any case, consumer spending seems likely to stay in low gear for several months to come. The weekly ABC/Money magazine consumer confidence poll shows that confidence is wavering in the wake of bad news on unemployment and company layoffs. Consumers do not have much in their wallets either. Income has been flat because jobs are not growing and pay increases have been tiny.
 
Consumer Prices
 In the meantime, consumer price inflation shows no signs of picking up, despite a jolt from higher gasoline prices in June, which was the biggest spurt in energy prices since October 1990. The Consumer Price Index increased just three-tenths of 1 percent last month. And inflation for the second quarter amounted to only a 2.6 percent annual rate, down from a 3.5 percent rate in the first quarter.
Energy prices jumped by 2 percent. The sharp increase largely reflects Saudi Arabia's success in tightening OPEC pricing policy. Oil prices are no longer declining.
Food prices were nearly flat. And the prices of services were up a relatively modest three-tenths of 1 percent despite the effect of higher gasoline prices on transportation costs. But analysts noted the unusual slowdown in the price of medical services in the last two months.
"Those concerned with sticky services inflation," Mr. Silvia said, "see this as a positive sign."
Many analysts, Mr. Silvia included, expect inflation to ease some more in the next few months. Among the encouraging signs: faster productivity growth combined with modest wage gains to hold cost pressures at bay.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Retail Sales" shows total retail sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted, Jan. 1991-June 1992, and changes in past three months. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D1)
 
Table/Graph: "Consumer Prices"

 	 	 	 		 	 	 		Index for	% Change from	% change from		June '92	prev month	prev year	 	 	 	 	U.S.	140.2	0.3	3.1	
Major Metropolitan Areas
An error occurred in the processing of a table at this point in the document. Please refer to the table in the online document.
 +Seasonally adjusted
 *Calculated bimonthly
 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MHP (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (59%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (59%); DETROIT, MI, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: KEMPER FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (57%); DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (59%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (59%); DETROIT, MI, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; PRICES RETAIL SALES (93%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); INFLATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); RETAILERS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); LAYOFFS (60%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA JOHN E SILVIA (73%); CYNTHIA LATTA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



480 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Personal Health

BYLINE: By Jane E. Brody

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to buying and wearing shoes, many people, women in particular, pay far too little attention to how a shoe fits and often end up with shoes that are too small in front, too loose in back, inadequately cushioned or otherwise inappropriate for the wearer or the use to which they will be put.
The unhappy results of wearing ill-fitting shoes -- from blisters and bunions to neuromas and backaches -- are helping to make thriving practices for podiatrists, orthopedists and chiropractors. 
 For example, a recent orthopedic evaluation of 255 women from 20 to 60 years old found that 73 percent of them regularly experienced foot pain and 69 percent had one or more deformities in the front part of their feet. The deformities included displaced big toes, hammer toes, bunions and bony protrusions on the ball of the foot.
The problem seems to be particularly severe for women with "big" feet (size 8 or larger), according to Dr. Carol Frey, an orthopedic surgeon at the University of California School of Medicine in Los Angeles. Dr. Frey made her report last month to the American Orthopedic Foot and Ankle Society. Such women, she found, either choose shoes that are ill-fitting in an effort to make their feet look smaller or are stuck with the limited offerings of shoe manufacturers. If they choose a shoe that fits the forefoot properly, it is likely to slip off the heel, and if it hugs the heel, it is likely to scrunch the forefoot.
Dr. Frey's survey found that 80 percent of the women with shoe sizes of 8 or larger suffered foot pain and 75 percent had one or more foot deformities. For women who wear size 10 or larger, the comparable percentages were 84 and 89. In other words, only one woman in 10 had "normal" feet.
The study was a followup to one Dr. Frey had done a year earlier among 356 healthy women. That study found that an astonishing 88 percent of the women wore shoes smaller than their feet and that three-fourths of those surveyed had not had their feet measured for more than five years. The earlier study had included an evaluation of work shoes. Of the 72 percent who said the shoes they wore to work were comfortable, 19 percent wore sneakers, 27 percent wore high heels and 54 percent wore flats. But of the 28 percent who said their work shoes were uncomfortable, only 4 percent wore sneakers, 34 percent wore flats and 62 percent wore high heels.
Clearly, Dr. Frey said, high heels are contributing to more than their fair share of foot problems, but they were by no means the only culprit.
 
Design for Health
 "Shoes are the only part of your wardrobe that can have health consequences," Dr. Frey said. Yet it is common for people, men as well as women, to spend less time, and often less money, on selecting new shoes than on buying a new shirt.
Women who are slaves to fashion seem to have the hardest time. Convinced by the fashion industry that tallness and long legs are synonymous with sexiness, women often choose high-heeled shoes that, a recent study showed, double the pressure placed on the forefoot, throw the back out of line, stress the knee and render the ankle vulnerable to twists and turns.
Fashionable shoes for women are narrower through the forefoot than the shape of a normal woman's foot. If the woman selects a shoe that fits from heel to toe and does not slip off the heel when she walks, chances are the shoe will squeeze the bones in her forefoot together and force her toes into an abnormal wedge shape more appropriate for a creature that has only three toes with the longest one in the middle.
With few exceptions, gone are the days of the so-called combination last, the shoe form that is sized differently in the forefoot and heel; for example, C width in front with a double-A heel. Today, perhaps for reasons of economy, Dr. Frey said, manufacturers make shoes bigger "by enlarging all the dimensions proportionally, as if a longer foot is necessarily wider and thicker in all areas."
Given a choice, most women select a shoe that squeezes the forefoot over one that falls off the heel. To make matters worse, in single-last high-heeled shoes, there is nothing to stop the foot from sliding down into the instep, putting even more of a squeeze on the forefoot and toes.
Then there is the matter of cushioning and ventilation. More and more shoes that the average woman can afford are made with "synthetic uppers." That means the shoes are made not of leather, a material that "breathes," but an imitation leather or plastic that can result in hot, sweaty feet that are more susceptible to fungus infections and skin irritations. But even leather can be a problem, if it is stiff or if it is used on the sole of a shoe that will be walked and stood in for a large part of the day.
There are better choices. Women seeking moderately priced, comfortable and health-promoting, as well as stylish, shoes would be wise to overcome their reluctance to shop for the brands they grew up thinking of as "old lady shoes." Those brands may be making stylish pumps with internal features like extra support, cushioning and absorbent liners.
Dr. Suzanne S. Levine, a New York podiatrist, found in a study of two kinds of similar-looking shoes that when 36 women compared a so-called athletically designed pump with a classic pump of similar design and heel height, the athletically designed pump was twice as comfortable when walked in for at least two miles a day for five workdays.
 
Choosing a Shoe
 The American Orthopedic Foot and Ankle Society offers these suggestions to improve shoe comfort and reduce the risk of foot troubles.
Know your feet. Make a wet imprint of your bare feet and determine whether you have flat feet (the whole foot will show up) or an unusually high arch (no connection between the forefoot and heel). Check your old shoes to see how they wear. You may need extra support or orthotic inserts in your shoes to compensate for a weakness in your feet or gait.
Choose a shoe appropriate for the activity. That may mean buying one pair to walk to work in and a second pair to wear once in the office and seated for most of the day. It also means different shoes for tennis and running, which place different stresses on your feet and ankles.
Don't stint on quality. And if you find shoes that are especially comfortable, buy more than one pair.
Work with a reliable and knowledgeable salesperson. Choose one who measures both of your feet and can discuss the relative virtues of materials and shoe construction.
And when walking around in the shoes before you decide to buy them, allow at least 10 minutes and keep in mind that shoe stores put extra-thick carpets on their floors to make the shoes feel better on your feet.


GRAPHIC: 1. Buy by fit, not by size, which can vary among manufacturers and styles.
Chart: "10 Steps for Shoe Buyers"
 2. Choose a showe that best conforms to the shape of your foot.
 3. Have your feet measured often; shoe size changes with age.
 4. Have both feet measured and buy shoes to fit the larger one.
 5. Go shopping for shoes at the end of the day, when you feet are largest.
 6. Stand up when being fitted and be sure there is a space of from one-eighth inch to one-half inch ahead of your longest toe.
 7. Be sure the ball of your foot fits snugly into the widest part of the shoe.
 8. Do not buy tight shoes that you hope will stretch. They should be comfortable when you leave the store.
 9. Check to be sure your heel is not slipping out of the shoes when you walk.
 10. Walk in the shoes long enough to be sure they fit comfortably before you buy them.
 
(Sources: National Shoe Retailers Association; Prescription Footwear Association; American Orthopedic Foot and Ankle Society)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: PERSONAL HEALTH (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SHOES AND BOOTS; FEET ORTHOPEDICS (91%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); WOMEN (89%); FOOTWEAR MFG (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); CHIROPRACTIC (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); PODIATRY (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); 

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E CAROL FREY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



481 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Attendance In Majors Taking A Dip

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
After a season that drew a record number of fans -- almost 57 million -- major league baseball attendance has lost 555,000 paying fans so far this year. At the All-Star break, attendance of 19 of the 26 clubs was down from the corresponding period last season, and total attendance has slipped by 1.8 percent.
No one reason is readily apparent for the decrease, from 30,598,159 to 30,043,250, but it has not yet created panic in the upper echelon of the sport. 
 "We talk about it all the time, though not in serious tones as far as worry is concerned," Bobby Brown, the American League president, said by telephone from San Diego. "It may be that we're reaching a plateau. We've done awfully well; we've broken a record for five or six years. You wonder if we're going to be fortunate to have this trend continue forever. When he was alive, Bob Fishel -- a league official -- said it has to level off somewhere; we have to have a bad year sometime."
 
Braves and Twins Surge
 Since the strike-split season of 1981, major league attendance fell in only two of nine years, dropping by 1.8 percent in 1984 and by 0.6 percent in 1990. After each drop, however, the majors enjoyed a hefty increase, 4.7 percent in 1985 and 3.6 percent last year.
Despite last year's record of 56,813,760, half of the 26 teams lost attendance from the previous year. The sizable increases by the Atlanta Braves and the Minnesota Twins, both of whom jumped from last place to the World Series, the Chicago White Sox (new park) and the Seattle Mariners (fans trying to keep them in town) were primarily responsible for the record.
In the first half of this season, the continued upswing in Atlanta and Minnesota and the new park in Baltimore have prevented the total attendance from falling even further. Camden Yards has drawn 547,637 more fans for the Orioles; the Braves are up by 552,067 and the Twins by 360,566.
Besides the Orioles and the Twins, only the Toronto Blue Jays (24,298), who sell out virtually every game, have had an increase in attendance in the American League. Attendance for the other 11 teams has decreased, ranging from 9,835 for the Boston Red Sox to 194,168 for the Texas Rangers.
The Rangers' decline, in fact, might have contributed to the decision last week to dismiss their manager, Bobby Valentine.
 
Searching for Answers
 Trying to find reasons for the general decline, Brown suggested the reasons that have been mentioned throughout the season.
"I think we had a bad spring for weather," he said. "That hurt us. The Yankees haven't drawn as well as we would like. That hurts. I don't know if the economy has anything to do with it. I would suspect it has something to do with it. You read that people are upset about the salary structure, but you come to workouts here yesterday and you have 40,000 people, so you wonder."
Fans may also simply be responding to poor and disappointing teams. Brown mentioned the Yankees, whose attendance is off 10.4 percent. With Yankee Stadium attendance down in each of the previous three seasons, Yankee fans have indicated that they will not tolerate the poor teams they have been provided.
Mets' fans have expressed their disappointment by staying away in such droves that Shea Stadium crowds are down 20.2 percent. The fans very likely are expressing their feelings about a team that is paying so much money to players who have failed to earn it.
The Los Angeles Dodgers, down by 15 percent, have suffered not only from a disappointing, inept team but also from the loss of four consecutive games earlier in the season because of the violence in South-Central Los Angeles. They recently made up the games as parts of doubleheaders, a loss of four dates and perhaps 140,000 in attendance (based on their average), which would account for about half of their decline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (52%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%); MARYLAND, USA (52%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (52%); BOSTON, MA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MINNESOTA TWINS (55%); MINNESOTA TWINS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MINNESOTA TWINS (55%); MINNESOTA TWINS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (52%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (76%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%); MARYLAND, USA (52%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (51%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (52%); BOSTON, MA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



482 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Even in the U.S., Ideology Infects Language

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Doris Lessing ends "Language and the Lunatic Fringe" (Op-Ed, June 26) with a warning that those in former Communist countries now search, "perhaps not even knowing it," for another dogma. They need look no further than the United States.
While lavishing praise upon ourselves for having prevailed over Communism, we too have become enslaved by catch phrases and empty slogans -- and, not surprisingly, few of us realize it. I offer a few examples of some of the dead language of orthodox capitalism: 
 (1) "Economic Growth." This is the sacred cow of what passes for economic debate in our society, and its utterance instantly silences all policy critics of every stripe. We seem to have become convinced that economic growth is the most urgent goal of humanity, yet the United States economy grew from a $3 trillion yearly gross national product in 1982 to more than $5 trillion before this recession. I challenge anybody to prove that this enormous increase has made life better for any but a privileged minority, or that it is or will be environmentally sustainable.
(2) "The Consumer." This term straight out of economic theory has virtually replaced citizen or even person as the principal mode of reference to human beings by both the Government and the press in the United States. By acknowledging people only in the economic role that capitalism prefers to see them perform, we ignore the importance of contribution, cooperation and labor to society, reducing all human action and endeavor to a question of individual gain. Thus art, medical care and education are consumed, as we unconsciously endorse the privatization and capitalization of every sphere of activity -- a process whose ramifications need debate, not linguistically embedded complicity.
(3) "Compete." Ms. Lessing complains about Communism's strictly utilitarian approach to art and literature, valuing them only insofar as they were about something inimical to the socialist struggle. In the United States, all ideas about the renovation of our infrastructure, and even about education and health care, are evaluated mainly for their utility in helping us "compete in the world economy." The use of this slogan, a symptom of our insecurities in the face of economic decline, stifles us from imagining less mercenary reasons to stop punishing ourselves and start living as civilly -- if not as wealthily -- as the Germans or Japanese.
It is ridiculous in 1992 for serious thinkers to be sifting through the smoldering ruins of Communist thought for ideological infections. We might instead start examining how the uncritical acceptance of orthodox capitalism's dogmas by West and East is distracting humanity from taking rational steps toward surviving as a species in a world with limited resources.
 
JEFFREY F. OBSER
New York, June 28, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); ANCIENT & EXTINCT LANGUAGES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE (68%); POLITICS (66%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (52%); 

PERSON: OBSER, JEFFREY F; LESSING, DORIS DORIS LESSING (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



483 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Even in the U.S., Ideology Infects Language;
Long Before Marx

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Doris Lessing's contention in "Language and the Lunatic Fringe" (Op
Ed, June 26) that political correctness is the intellectual progeny of Communism is full of amusing, though apparently unintended, irony. Surely she must realize that political correctness is a pejorative coined by those who disagree with the prevailing values of academia in order to discredit them. That political correctness in one form or another has always existed in every human institution is self-evident: the phrase is only the latest weapon of choice in the battle of ideologues.
Attributing "pedantries and verbosities" and "language that seemed designed to fill up as much space as possible without actually saying anything" solely to Communism and its philosophical antecedents is either intellectual myopia or disingenuous posturing by Ms. Lessing. Euphemism, obfuscation and evasion: have they not been the hallmark of American politics since long before the advent of Communism? 
 Where could this linguistic malaise be more blatantly manifest that in our own legal and medical professions? And what of that bastion of orthodoxy enforced and responsibility avoided through Orwellian newspeak, the capitalist corporation? No, the corruption of language is hardly the exclusive domain of the Marxist-Leninist state, and we need not look to Kant, Hegel or Marx for the source of our failure to communicate.
That a writer held in such high regard is irritated by the demand that stories be about something strikes a particularly sardonic note. Does Ms. Lessing truly believe that mere description of what has happened (or been imagined) qualifies a written work as art?
Are not metaphor, allegory and myth, devices that express timeless ideas and universal experiences with such force, essential among the ingredients that distinguish literature from journalism, and have they not always been so?
Yes, there are perils in a dogmatic embrace of today's political correctness, but Doris Lessing ought to choose her bogymen a bit more carefully.
 
STEPHEN E. KILIANSKI
Nutley, N.J., June 26, 1992

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BOOKS AND LITERATURE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); LINGUISTICS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LITERATURE (70%); 

PERSON: LESSING, DORIS; KILIANSKI, STEPHEN E DORIS LESSING (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



484 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Once Again, Are You Better Off Today?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Are you better off today than you were four years ago?" This simple query is one of the most consequential questions that can be asked in politics, especially during a Presidential campaign.
Ronald Reagan, the Great Communicator, asked this question repeatedly on his way to winning the White House in 1980 and again in 1984. It's a question that's worth asking again during the 1992 Presidential election; but don't expect President Bush to ask it. 
 When it comes to the health of the United States economy, George Bush has been the single most unsuccessful President of the post-World War II era. For any four-year Presidential term since 1952, Mr. Bush's scorecard on economic policy shows the following:
The worst record for overall economic growth; the highest average annual budget deficit; the lowest job growth; the largest increase in the public debt; the lowest growth in personal income; the lowest number of housing starts; the only decline recorded in industrial production.
Despite Mr. Bush's record of economic negligence and neglect, it's certainly possible that some citizens are better off today than they were four years ago. But for the overwhelming number of Americans, even a great many living in Orange County, California, widely known as "Reagan Country," the answer to Ronald Reagan's frequently asked question is a resounding no.
Citizens who are better off today than they were four years ago will doubtless support the President. But most Americans aren't so fortunate as that. And if they render electoral judgments in November that are consistent with the logic of Mr. Reagan's question, then there will be a new occupant of the White House come next January.
 
MARK P. PETRACCA
Irvine, Calif., June 27, 1992
 
The writer is co-author of "The American Presidency" (1983).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (55%); WHITE HOUSE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WRITERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); HOUSING STARTS (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); WORLD WAR II (55%); 

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



485 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: Rent Regulation Helps Keep the Middle Class in New York City

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"The Enduring Cost of Rent Control," your June 27 editorial attack on rent control in New York City, is ill considered and should be condemned.
Your newspaper, as much as any other source of power in the city, ought to be concerned with retaining the middle-class taxpayer. This class has been and is continually leaving New York, as the quality of life sinks under the burden of great pockets of drug dealing, crime, poor schools, dirty streets and other problems, which make our community less desirable as a place for people to live decent lives and bring up their children in a wholesome environment. 
 Many of the middle-class taxpayers continue to reside here only because our rent control and rent stabilization laws give them an element of economic security. Take steps to erode this fabric of protection, and the flow of outgoing taxpayers will resemble a flood.
The bill to decontrol luxury apartments, which is bottled up in the State Assembly, has been submitted only as a first step in getting rid of rent control. It seeks to introduce a means test to decontrol apartments renting for more than $2,000 a month, which are only a glut on the market anyway.
No new construction is discouraged by the rent control laws, since all new construction is free of controls.
It is too bad that many of the people pushing to eliminate rent regulations do not realize that in the long run, whether they be owners of apartment dwellings or others, the continued loss of desirable taxpaying citizens from our city will be a price too high to pay for the elimination of rent regulations. If it is asked when emergency rent regulations will be eliminated, the answer is that if we continue on our road to a depression, the market will make rent controls unnecessary because the controlled rents will not equal the lower market rents.
 
HARRIS L. PRESENT
New York, July 2, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RENT CONTROL; RENTING AND LEASING; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RENT CONTROL (97%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); TRENDS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: PRESENT, HARRIS L HARRIS L PRESENT NEW YORK (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



486 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: Rent Regulation Helps Keep the Middle Class in New York City;
Never for the Poor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"The Enduring Cost of Rent Control" (editorial, June 28) cites many problems with New York City's rent regulations but manages to perpetuate one myth: "It purports to help the poor afford housing."
None of the rent control or rent stabilization laws enacted or continued since World War II even mentions housing poor people. Protecting the poor is a banner supporters of rent control march under because it's less embarrassing than saying, "I've got mine, protect me." 
 The stated purpose of rent regulation is to prevent rent gouging in an emergency housing shortage created by, depending on the legislation's year, World War II, rampant inflation, "decline in private housing construction" or "proposed cuts in Federal assistance to housing programs." The idea is that if the market rent for a one-bedroom apartment in Queens is $600 and, because of the housing shortage, there is only one vacant apartment left, the owner cannot profiteer by charging $1,400 for that last apartment.
The greatest divergences from fair market rents in New York are the result of regulations that have kept the rents of long-term tenants low. Perhaps this has something to do with the decline of private investment in rental housing.
 
DAN MARGULIES
New York, June 29, 1992
 
The writer is executive director of Community Housing Improvement Program, which represents apartment owners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENT CONTROL; RENTING AND LEASING; LAW AND LEGISLATION RENT CONTROL (96%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); 

PERSON: MARGULIES, DAN DAN MARGULIES NEW YORK (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



487 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NURSE INFECTED WITH AIDS WINS SUIT
A judge has ordered New York State to pay a Utica nurse $5.4 million after she contracted the AIDS virus from a prisoner during a frenzied scuffle at a hospital in 1988. The judge determined that two corrections officers assigned to the prisoner had done nothing to restrain him as he punched and kicked at a medical team and the nurse was jabbed with a hypodermic needle containing his infected blood. A1.
 
AN ASSAULT ON ASSAULT WEAPONS
Governor Florio of New Jersey, joined by Police Commissioner Brown of New York City, Curtis Sliwa, the founder of the Guardian Angels, and a phalanx of members of Congress from New York and New Jersey called for a nationwide ban on assault weapons similar to laws on the books in New York City and New Jersey. B5.
 
NEW YORK CITY 

UPERINTENDENT IN BRONX DISMISSED
A veteran school superintendent in the northeast Bronx has been ousted from his job amid charges that he was indifferent to the needs of black students, and the dismissal has prompted countercharges that his chief accuser is biased against Jews. B3.
 
VYING FOR THE CONVENTION DOLLARS
In the scramble for the millions of dollars of business generated by New York City's third Democratic convention in 16 years, some well-connected local companies snared big contracts, while others fought over the relative scraps. B3.
 
LOCAL POLITICIANS SHARE THE SPOTLIGHT
For the rest of the country, this convention may have all the excitement of Bowling for Dollars, but it's a big boon for the local political establishment, especially those not usually known for attracting candlepower. For example, when else could New York State's Attorney General Robert Abrams -- a Senate candidate busily trying to persuade voters that a man can be a feminist, too -- share a platform with both Hillary Clinton and Tipper Gore? A9.
 
8-YEAR-OLD HURT IN SHOOTING
An eight-year-old boy who was playing in a friend's Harlem apartment was shot in the head and critically wounded by a stray bullet. Police were trying to determine where the bullet came from. B3.
 
POLICE OFFICER ARRESTED FOR DRUG SALE
A New York City police officer has been arrested on charges that he sold cocaine to an undercover detective last March at his home on Long Island. B3.
 
Rally for AIDS victims. A9.
 
Conventioneers learn to spot New Yorkers. A9.
 
REGION
 
A FUEL SPILL CLOSES BEACHES
After being ravaged by fire on Monday, the 70-foot party boat, Lady Edna, went down off Long Island. Today, off Long Beach, the boat coughed up enough fuel today to send nine lifeguards to emergency rooms and cause the closing of a mile and half of beach on one of the hottest days of the year. Page B5.
 
OFFICIALS DEFEND RECENT HIRING
The heads of the state's Human Services Department and Environmental Protection and Energy Department went before an Assembly committee today to defend the hiring of 250 people despite the prospect of layoffs. B5.
 
About New York by Douglas Martin B3
 
Chronicle B6

CORRECTION-DATE: July 16, 1992, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
The Pulse chart in the Metro Section yesterday about the change in consumer prices carried an erroneous label in some editions for the most recent monthly figures available. They were for June, not May.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Inflation in the Region" tracks month-to-month change in consumer prices in New York City and 21 nearby counties since 1990. (Source Bureau of Labor Statistics).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); UTICA, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GUARDIAN ANGELS (57%); GUARDIAN ANGELS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); GUARDIAN ANGELS (57%); GUARDIAN ANGELS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); UTICA, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); JUDGES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (79%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (79%); GUN CONTROL (75%); ARRESTS (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); VIRUSES (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); POLITICS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (68%); SHOOTINGS (66%); HEAD INJURIES (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); BEACHES (60%); OIL SPILLS (60%); COCAINE (60%); FUEL SPILLS (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



488 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 15, 1992
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 2; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: With Skilled Jobs Unfilled, Vocational Training Changes Course

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d

 BODY:
Once a backwater for students who were not college bound, vocational education is shedding its second-class image as more educators, business executives and policymakers view improved job training as an answer to many of the nation's economic and social woes.
But the rehabilitation will take many years and millions of dollars. American public schools have emphasized academics over vocational education for so long, educators and policymakers say, that most job-training courses offered in high schools are outdated. 
 As a result, vocational schools have produced hundreds of thousands of students over the last four decades whose abilities do not match the increasingly complex skills required for a growing number of jobs. This gap between graduates' abilities and job skills appeared in the 1950's and began to widen in the 1960's, then expanded rapidly in the last two decades and into the 1990's, educators say.
For decades, 20 to 25 percent of all high school graduates have taken vocational education, and for much of that time the quality of instruction met the demands of the job market.
 
Training Out of Step
 "Vocational education wasn't bad in the past, but it hasn't kept up with the times," said Dale Parnell, the Commissioner of the Oregon Community Colleges system and the author of "The Neglected Majority" (Community College Press, 1985), which examines how vocational education has failed students. "If we are going to help people prepare for high-performance work places, we have to change how we prepare them."
Supported by increasing sums of state and Federal aid, schools in growing numbers have updated their vocational curriculums with courses and equipment that allow high school graduates to move into the expanding technical and specialized segments of the job market. The graduates are working as nurses aides, medical technicians, medical-records keepers, X-ray technicians, graphic artists, paralegals and specialists in repairing computers and other highly technical equipment.
Some high schools, like those in Newark, have forged relationships with community colleges under the so-called tech-prep programs financed by the Federal Government. These programs allow a student enrolled in vocational education in public school to receive college credits. Once in college, the student takes job-training courses along with related academic classes toward a two-year degree.
Perhaps the most advanced state in improving job-training is Oregon. Last year it became the first state to redesign its high schools' vocational curriculums so that students can enter an apprenticeship job-training program after the 10th grade.
These students continue to take academic courses while working for businesses that will guarantee them jobs on graduation. The model has since been adopted, with variations, in Wisconsin, Rhode Island and North and South Carolinas.
 
Offering Outdated Courses
 But the vocational curriculums in many states have long been dated. Many automotive repair classes, for example, continue to instruct students about carburetors when more and more autos are being equipped with fuel-injection systems. In addition, while many high schools provide general vocational training in the rudiments of carpentry, plumbing, electricity and masonry, the instruction is not comprehensive enough to enable a student to be proficient in any of these trades.
But now employers' complaints have pushed states from California to New York to try upgrade vocational curriculums for a swiftly changing job market. An estimated 24 million jobs will be created through the year 2005, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, bringing the total number of jobs to 147 million in 2005, up from 123 million in 1990.
More than 20 percent of the expansion is expected to occur in jobs that involve high technology and specialized skills in the computer and health care industries. These jobs often command salaries that are competitive with those earned by college graduates.
"In one city after another, there is a shortage of qualified applicants for high-skilled, high-paying jobs and a great surplus of people applying for low-skilled, low-paying jobs," said Marc S. Tucker, president of the National Center for Education in the Economy, a research organization in Rochester. "Our whole system is geared to kids going to college. We do the least of any industrialized nation to educate young people for the workplace."
 
More Young People Jobless
 The shortage of adequate job training has led not only to higher unemployment rates among young people, Mr. Tucker said, but also to the sense of hopelessness that many people saw as a root cause of the Los Angeles riots. Forty percent of all high school graduates -- many of them black or Hispanic pupils -- do not go on to college, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. These students, along with another 25 percent who attend college but never complete requirements for a degree, go directly into the work force, with many of them winding up frustrated because of their lack of abilities.
This inability to perform highly skilled jobs was a major factor in a 1991 unemployment rate of 13.6 percent for those 16 to 24 years old, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. For high school dropouts, the 1991 jobless rate was even higher, 23.1 percent. The 1991 unemployment rate for all workers was 6.7 percent.
"There is frustration over jobs," said Jack Kyser, chief economist for the Economic Development Corporation of Los Angeles. "You have young people growing up in South-Central Los Angeles and seeing their parents working like dogs, and they sense there is no future for them. The system has failed them."
But bit by bit the tide is turning for students like Luisa Urbina, a vocational education student who graduated last month from Manual Arts High School in South-Central Los Angeles. Miss Urbina, who is 18 years old, worked during the school year at First Interstate Bank in the charitable trust department. After graduation she started work as a clerk trainee at the Atlantic Richfield Company, a job she hopes will lead to management.
"I'm not worried about the future, because I learned a lot about business in school," said Miss Urbina, who lives with her mother, a sewing machine operator. "My mother is happy for me because I'll have opportunities she didn't have."
Her school also offers job training in health-care, graphic arts and banking. And in the last five years, reflecting the growing reliance on technology throughout the job market, the school has initiated courses in the repair of mobile telephones and auto alarms.
"These vocational programs are designed to help students take their place in society," said Bernadette Graham, the career adviser at the school, where minorities make up more than 50 percent of the enrollment. "Minorities have never taken their place in society. That's when you get the frustration and the burning and the looting."
Other school districts moving to fill the job-training breach are asking local businesses to help them tailor curriculums to meet market needs. In Corpus Christi, Tex., for instance, where about 5,000 of 42,000 students are enrolled in vocational education programs, the school system dropped its welding courses after business executives told school officials that the job was largely a seasonal one. The district then instituted courses like computer-aided design.
 
Major Federal Support
 The expense of rebuilding vocational education nationwide has largely been absorbed by the Carl T. Perkins Vocational Education and Training Act, named for the longtime United States Representative from Kentucky whose interests included vocational education. The act, now in its third decade, was extended by Congress for another five years in 1990. It is providing $1.01 billion to schools in the fiscal year 1992.
Despite this infusion of money and the calls for urgent change, broad improvements in vocational education are expected to progress slowly. A philosophical battle goes on between academic teachers and vocational instructors over the continued emphasis on preparing high school students for college.
Vocational educators have long argued that emphasizing academics at the expense of job training hurts the very students -- many of them from minorities -- who need the most help from school to succeed in life.
The traditional low-priority treatment of vocational education "is partly racism and partly classism," said Mr. Tucker of the National Center for Education in the Economy, who argues that this is why vocational education remains underfinanced and outdated in many school systems.
Schools also have trouble finding teachers who are skilled in the newest technologies. Although the Perkins act is pumping more money into job-training curriculums, schools are still feeling the effects of the recession, which led to deep budget cuts and teacher layoffs.
"We really have to do much more with these students," said Morgan Lewis, a research scientist at Ohio State University's Center on Education and Training for Employment. "Vocational education evokes images of a second-class education, and it doesn't have to be that."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 18, 1992, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about vocational education misidentified an organization that helps educators, business executives and government officials develop education policies. It is the National Center on Education and the Economy.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Manual Arts High School in South-Central Los Angeles, a career counselor, Bernadette Graham, above center, advised a student of the updated job training program, which is designed to meet the needs of competitive employers. Students worked at computers in the Career Center, below. (Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "An Infusion Of Money" tracks federal vocational education spending each fiscal year since 1982. (Source: U.S. Department of Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: VOCATIONAL TRAINING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (95%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CURRICULA (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); PARALEGALS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); NURSES & NURSING (67%); MEDICAL RECORDS (62%); VISUAL ARTISTS (50%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D MARC S TUCKER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1992



489 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: UNDER THE BIG TOP -- THE OVERVIEW;
DEMOCRATS GIVE CLINTON THEIR BLESSING; CUOMO HAILS 'NEW VOICE FOR NEW AMERICA'

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
The Democratic National Convention nominated Gov. Bill Clinton for the Presidency last night after Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York made an impassioned case for the man from Hope, Ark., and declared that the nation could not afford another Democratic defeat.
Mr. Clinton capped the emotional night with a joyous march from a restaurant in Macy's to the convention floor in Madison Square Garden a block away. Illuminated by floodlights and cascades of red, white and blue glitter confetti falling from the ceiling, Mr. Clinton strode into the convention hall, which was packed by roaring, triumphant Democrats. 
 Beaming a vibrant image to national television audiences, Mr. Clinton made his way slowly to the Arkansas delegation. He threw open his arms, shouted "I love you," and embraced his mother, Virginia Kelley, who had cast the first votes for his nomination.
He appealed, quite directly, to the memory of John F. Kennedy, saying, "The rules of the convention preclude my acceptance tonight, but 32 years ago another young candidate who wanted to get this country moving again came to the convention to say a simple thank you."
Earlier in the evening, Mr. Cuomo and Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, perennial favorites of the party's liberals, bestowed political blessings on the fifth-generation Arkansan who comes from a very different wing of the party. The Governor of New York hailed Mr. Clinton's character, his humble roots, his commitment to the party's traditions and values.
"It's time for change," Mr. Cuomo said, endorsing Mr. Clinton with far more spirit and passion than many had expected. "It's time for someone smart enough to know, strong enough to do, sure enough to lead. The comeback kid. A new voice for a new America." [Transcript, page A14.]
 
'The Man From Hope'
 The Governor of New York, who spoke to a rapt audience, declared, "Because I love New York, because I love America, I nominate for the office of the President of the United States the man from Hope, Arkansas, Governor Bill Clinton."
The convention then proceeded to the old, joyous ceremony of the roll-call of the states, ratifying what the primary voters had finished more than a month ago. Mr. Clinton went over the top, the necessary 2,145 delegates to win, at 10:54 P.M., when Ohio voted. The hall rocked with cheers, chants of "We want Bill" and Sousa marches in a demonstration that lasted 30 minutes.
Mr. Clinton, accompanied by his wife, Hillary, and his daughter, Chelsea, watched the packed and happy hall on television in Macy's. The convention could watch him, as well, on two huge screens high above the Garden floor.
Then, in a move that caught many of the delegates by surprise but was planned well in advance, he strode through the men's furnishings department, out into Seventh Avenue in a light drizzle, and headed toward the Garden. He was surrounded by cheering supporters, ecstatic from reports of new polls, reveling in the moment. Ronald Reagan made a similar visit to the Republicans' convention hall when he was nominated in 1980, as did Walter F. Mondale to the Democrats' 1984 convention.
The night was a triumph of strategy, endurance and simple fire in the belly for Mr. Clinton, who had plunged into this race when President Bush had been soaring in public opinion polls and the Democratic Party's heavyweights had turned away.
Mr. Clinton, 45 years old, from a tiny state that has never before produced a Democratic nominee, was beaming and clutching his daughter's hand as he watched the votes tallied. He wiped tears from his eyes as New Hampshire, the scene of his toughest primary battle, announced its votes.
Not since Jimmy Carter has a Southerner risen to the top of his party, and Mr. Clinton did so with a message that asserted that the party had to moderate its policies to reclaim the middle class and return to the White House. Last night, as the party rallied itself for an intensely competitive three-way campaign in the fall, Mr. Clinton was oratorically embraced by the tribunes of the party's Northern liberals.
Mr. Cuomo's speech began with an indictment of 12 years of Republican rule, which he asserted had rocked the middle class, devastated a generation of urban children, ravaged the economy with policies akin to Herbert Hoover's and left the nation angry and yearning for change.
 
'The Shining City'
 "This time, we cannot afford to fail to deliver the message, not just to Democrats but to the whole nation," Mr. Cuomo said. "Because the ship of state is headed for the rocks. The crew knows it. The passengers know it. Only the captain of the ship, President Bush, appears not to know it."
Mr. Cuomo's most compelling image, as the "shining city on the hill" was in his speech in 1984, was the notion of a national parade celebrating victory over domestic problems, just as the nation reveled after the Persian Gulf war. "So step aside, Mr. Bush; you've had your parade," Mr. Cuomo said. "It's time for a change."
With that, Mr. Cuomo ended a political saga: a primary year in which many expected the Governor from New York to be the principal challenger to the Governor from Arkansas. Clinton allies, who saw the advance text of the speech earlier in the day, said they were very pleased. One Democratic strategist, noting that it was a strong validation by a man who is probably the pre-eminent Northern Democrat, said, "There's always a problem with a Southern nominee in the Northeast, and this is a very powerful piece of politics."
Senator Kennedy, who ended his own doomed campaign for the nomination in Madison Square Garden in 1980, said Mr. Clinton "has sought to heal" across lines of race and class, as Robert F. Kennedy did. The Massachusetts Senator cast the Clinton campaign as the continuation of a long Democratic struggle for justice, equality and economic opportunity.
"I have stood with so many of you in so many great causes," Mr. Kennedy said. "The times have changed, but the ideals are the same. We will never give up. We will never give in. And in 1992, we are going to win."
In a mood of nostalgia and reconciliation, the Democrats began the evening with a film about Robert Kennedy that recalled the triumph and the poignancy of the Kennedy years, an era that left its mark on many of the delegates here, as well as on Mr. Clinton himself.
The delegates also finished some final business from the nominating season. Former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California saw his proposals for a sweeping review of party rules and procedures voted down by a group far more focused on defeating the incumbent Republican President. The Brown delegates robustly booed.
Mr. Brown, when he finally spoke on behalf of his own nomination, used his speech to denounce the "influence of power and money" that he said was behind "everything that's wrong with this country." The former Governor from California, who bucked the unity tableau throughout this week, stayed recalcitrant to the end and never mentioned his party's nominee. "I intend to fight for this party, tonight, tomorrow, this year, every year," he said, reiterating the themes of his angry, anti-politics-as-usual campaign.
 
Tsongas Leads Chant
 Former Senator Paul E. Tsongas, whose victory in the New Hampshire primary turned him into Mr. Clinton's most determined challenger for a time, was playing the loyal team player last night. Arguing that the party had a historic obligation to "create an inclusive and just society" and "insure economic security," the former Massachusetts Senator led a chant: "Never under George Bush; next year under Bill Clinton."
It was a night when the Democratic Party, fractious and often proud of it, was deep in the quadrennial ritual of anointing a new standard-bearer and pledging allegiance to him. Mr. Cuomo set the tone, recalling that he had warned of the cost of Republican inaction with his keynote address to the Democratic convention that nominated Mr. Mondale.
Mr. Clinton, who spent much of the day working on his acceptance speech, which he will deliver tonight, got other good news yesterday. The teamsters union, which backed the Republican ticket in the past three Presidential elections, announced that it was endorsing Mr. Clinton. "Bill Clinton is our best hope for getting this country moving again," said the union's president, Ronald R. Carey, echoing the Kennedyesque theme of the day.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Bill Clinton with his wife, Hillary, and daughter, Chelsea, responding to the cheers of delegates last night after his nomination. At left was Ronald H. Brown, the Democratic National Chairman. (Lee Romero/The New York Times); Gov. Mario M. Cuomo nominating Gov. Bill Clinton for President last night at the Democratic convention. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Gov. Bill Clinton getting a confetti shower last night on the floor of the Democratic National Convention after his nomination. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) (pg. A15)
 
Table: "How They Voted"
 Following is the roll-call vote by which the Democratic National Convention nominated Bill Clinton for the Presidency last night:
 

State	Clinton	Brown	Tsongas	Other	Ala. 	67	0	0	0	Alaska	18	0	0	0	Ariz. 	23	12	14	0	Ark. 	48	0	0	0	Calif.	211	160	0	35	Colo. 	26	19	13	0	Conn. 	45	21	0	0	Del. 	17	3	1	0	D.C. 	31	0	0	0	Fla. 	141	3	15	0	Ga. 	96	0	0	0	Hawaii	24	2	0	2	Idaho 	22	0	1	1	Ill. 	155	9	29	1	Ind. 	73	20	0	0	Iowa 	55	2	0	2	Kan. 	43	0	0	1	Ky. 	63	0	0	1	La. 	75	0	0	0	Maine 	14	13	4	0	Md. 	83	0	2	0	Mass. 	109	6	1	0	Mich. 	120	35	0	4	Minn. 	61	8	2	21	Miss. 	46	0	0	0	Mo. 	91	1	0	0	Mont. 	21	2	0	0	Neb. 	24	9	0	0	Nev. 	23	4	0	0	N.H. 	17	0	7	0	N.J. 	102	24	0	0	N.M. 	30	3	0	1	N.Y. 	155	67	64	0	N.C. 	95	1	0	3	N.D. 	18	0	0	1	Ohio 	144	34	0	0	Okla. 	56	2	0	0	Ore. 	38	19	0	0	Pa. 	139	43	4	3	Puerto Rico	57	0	0	0	R.I. 	27	2	0	0	S.C. 	54	0	0	0	S.D. 	21	0	0	0	Tenn. 	85	0	0	0	Texas 	204	4	20	4	Utah 	20	9	0	0	Vt. 	14	7	0	0	Va. 	84	3	0	0	Wash. 	49	18	14	0	W.Va. 	41	0	0	0	Wis. 	46	30	18	0	Wyo. 	18	1	0	0	Am. Samoa	5	0	0	0	Dems. Abroad	9	0	0	0	Guam 	4	0	0	0	Virgin Islands	5	0	0	0	Totals	3,372	596	209	80	

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SAMOA (79%); GUAM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (57%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SAMOA (79%); GUAM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); BROWN, JERRY (EDMUND G BROWN JR); TSONGAS, PAUL E; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); KENNEDY, JOHN FITZGERALD (1917-63); KENNEDY, ROBERT FRANCIS (1925-68) BILL CLINTON (95%); JERRY BROWN (90%); TED KENNEDY (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



490 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: UNDER THE BIG TOP -- NEWS ANALYSIS;
Bursts of Fire at an Orderly Convention

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

 BODY:
Last night, for a few sweet, fleeting moments, they finally let the Democrats be Democrats.
The managers at Madison Square Garden let former Gov. Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California, the Peck's Bad Boy of this year's politics, spell out his plans to overturn the nefarious American "system." They asked Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts to evoke the glow of Camelot once more. 
 They let former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, surely the year's most surprising Presidential contender, talk about his own quirky prescriptions for his party. And they called on the party's often Delphic orator in chief, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, to set the place alight.
These were the losers, the men not nominated, the paths not taken, and there were contradictions aplenty. Mr. Tsongas wants the party to pay more attention to the needs of business, and Mr. Brown wants it to pay less, to cite an obvious example. Mr. Kennedy scorns the conspiracy theories of Oliver Stone, the film maker, but the Democrats gave the disputatious Mr. Stone a moment to speak for Mr. Brown.
The 4,928 delegates and alternates packed onto the floor and into the first balcony at the Garden didn't seem to mind. A little contradiction, a lot of zeal, a dose of the offbeat and a flash or two of ego supplied the ideal antidote for a convention in danger of choking on its own decorum.
Mr. Cuomo came on to the roll of kettledrums and the sight of red-and-white "We Love Mario" signs, then showed again his easy command of all the oratorical skills of another time, before television, when the likes of William Jennings Bryan and Franklin Delano Roosevelt captivated Democratic conventions.
Mr. Cuomo's voice rose and fell, his cadence accelerated and slowed; he was sarcastic at one moment, expansive the next, then full of scorn and fury a few minutes after that. As he had in San Francisco in 1984, he wowed his party and made not a few of its members wish he had run.
The delegates loved it when he attributed to President Bush "the politics of decline, decay and deception," when he said the country needed a President to halt a Republican attempt "to tell us what god to believe in, and how to apply that god's judgment to our schoolrooms, our bedrooms and our bodies," and perhaps most of all when he told the Democrats that the 1992 nominee was "an admirable aberration" in a world of "fragile and thin-skinned politicians."
Governor Cuomo's peroration echoed the New Deal and Fair Deal as he celebrated the old American verities -- verities that the American electorate once saw exemplified by the Democratic Party, verities the party yearns to make its own again this year as it pursues the elusive middle-class vote.
"I want to sing," he said in one of many soaring moments, "proud songs, happy songs, arm in arm with workers who have a real stake in their company's success, who once again have the assurance that a lifetime of hard work will make life better for their children than it's been for them."
 
Roll-Call and Commercials
 The time-worn, ever-popular hokum of the roll-call followed, complete with commercials for local industries, causes, attractions and heroes, and a few unity-bucking votes for Gov. Robert P. Casey of Pennsylvania and Representative Patricia Schroeder of Colorado. When Mr. Clinton went over the top, confetti poured from the ceiling.
A tradition-shattering visit by Mr. Clinton and his family, who walked several blocks to the arena from Macy's, closed the evening on an effervescent note, with the delegates' roars leaving no doubt they were pleased with their choice.
At conventions like this, with everything cut and dried, with nothing really left to fight over, eloquence is at a premium. And before last night only Elizabeth Glaser, a woman suffering from AIDS, and the Rev. Jesse Jackson had generated real bursts of emotional electricity.
Last night Mr. Kennedy came close as he opened the parade of not-quite-nominees to the podium: three who sought the Democratic nomination and failed to get it, and one, Governor Cuomo, who has never brought himself to enter the race, despite entreaties to do so for almost a decade.
 
1964 Tribute Recalled
 Mr. Kennedy's role was an eerie reprise of one of the most emotional moments in the recent history of nominating conventions. When the Democrats met at Atlantic City in 1964, John F. Kennedy had not yet been dead for a year, and his brother Robert F. Kennedy was called upon to introduce a memorial film.
For 16 long minutes he stood, unable to speak above the great roar of applause washing over him. Then he reduced uncounted millions to tears by quoting from Act III of "Romeo and Juliet": "When he shall die, take him and cut him out in little stars, for he shall make heaven so fine that all the world will be in love with night and pay no worship to the garish sun."
Last night Edward Kennedy, the last surviving male member of his generation of a family at once blessed and haunted, spoke after a film tribute to Robert Kennedy -- "gone now," as he said, "nearly a quarter of a century." The film was introduced by Representative Joseph P. Kennedy 2d of Massachusetts, Robert Kennedy's oldest son.
Senator Kennedy quoted not Shakespeare but the modern English poet Stephen Spender in remembering his slain brothers: "Born of the sun, they traveled a short while toward the sun and left the vivid air signed with their honor." And he found moving language of his own when he said of his brothers, "Their truest history is written in your hearts and the hearts of people everywhere who refuse to be content with things as they are."
Most of the delegates do not like Mr. Brown at all; they view him as a trouble-making upstart. But he delivered his radical message with verve -- denouncing what he called "government of, by and for the privileged," railing at the world of contacts and access and power brokers and pledging to "create power for the powerless."
His heavily outnumbered backers on the floor, mostly political neophytes, launched a high-spirited if carefully orchestrated demonstration. Amid the mass-produced placards, a hand-lettered sign stood out with a theme of last-ditch defiance -- "You can't paint a picture of unity with the paintbrush of suppression" -- but the crowd quickly subsided when asked to.
Bill Clinton's personal formula for electoral success -- his platform, his selection for Vice President, his orderly approach to things -- has shaped the 1992 Democratic National Convention. The watchwords here have been restraint, organization, unity and that old wet blanket, dignity.
The delegates accept it, at least most of them. Mr. Clinton won the nomination against all the odds, after all, and he has convinced them, at least intellectually, that his way is their best hope for taking back the White House this fall. But it is all a bit bloodless, satisfying but not thrilling, for a party that relishes a good brawl the way the Republicans relish a good balance sheet.
 
The Way Things Were
 When the convention voted down a commission for Democratic Party renewal early in the evening, the Brown forces booed and chanted. Mayor Maynard Jackson of Atlanta, presiding, quieted them easily enough, and he smiled a little at the brief reminder of the way things used to be.
The health police have taken away the smoke-filled room, and now the responsibility police have taken away the shouting matches that used to cause convention chairmen to shatter their gavels in frustration.
To Peggy Noonan, who has been watching the proceedings through the eyes of a speech writer for both Ronald Reagan and George Bush, the Democrats looked like "people fighting against their own nature."
Not during the nostalgic look back to the Kennedy era.
When Senator Kennedy called for a "return to the ideal of compassion" after 12 years of "wintry indifference" sponsored by the Republicans, his declaration sounded more like an endorsement of the values of Democratic campaigns past than an echo of this year's cool new rhetoric.
The Senator himself identified the whole liberal agenda: women's rights and abortion rights, gay rights and civil rights, health care and urban renewal, "war against poverty, not war against the poor." The thing that matters most about Bill Clinton, he said, is that "he has sought to heal."
Mr. Tsongas restated his central campaign themes, including his new brand of economics that Mr. Clinton often ridiculed in the primary campaign.
The elegant phrase has never been Mr. Tsongas's forte, but the Clinton campaign could find a worse battle cry than his plain-spoken indictment of the Bush and Reagan Administrations:
"They told us it was morning in America. They told us we could have it all. They lied."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As tribute was paid last night at the Democratic Convention to the 1968 campaign fo Robert F. Kennedy, members of the Kennedy family applauded. From the left were Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg and Michael, Ethel, Christopher and Rory Elizabeth Kennedy. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) (pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (58%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; BROWN, JERRY (EDMUND G BROWN JR); KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); TSONGAS, PAUL E; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) JERRY BROWN (91%); TED KENNEDY (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



491 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 2858 words

HEADLINE: MAN IN THE NEWS: WILLIAM JEFFERSON CLINTON
BIOGRAPHY OF A CANDIDATE;
Tenacity and Change in a Son of the South

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL

 BODY:
By the time he finished his long-winded nomination speech for Michael S. Dukakis at the 1988 Democratic National Convention, Bill Clinton knew he had bombed. After all, the audience was chanting, "Get off, get off."
"Had I been Bill at that point," said Samuel Berger, an adviser who was backstage, "I would have gone out and dug the deepest hole I could and buried myself." 
 But what he remembered most, Mr. Berger said, was the way Mr. Clinton marched off the stage and straight into the press room to face what he knew would be a barrage of embarrassing, hostile questions.
When Johnny Carson invited him on the "Tonight" show shortly afterward, all of his advisers said don't go, but the Arkansas Governor went anyway, letting Mr. Carson poke fun at him and playing the saxophone with Doc Severinsen's band.
"Instead of running away from the problem," Mr. Berger said, "he faced it. He took responsibility. He walked into the press room and took it. For me it foreshadowed the sort of resilience he showed in the dark days of the New Hampshire primary. I saw the same strength then -- confronting a problem instead of running away from it."
Persistence is a theme of Bill Clinton's life, and it may be the reason why, only four years after one of the worst-regarded speeches in recent convention history, he was nominated for the Presidency last night.
It was the same quality that enabled Mr. Clinton to endure the blizzard of rumors about his personal life.
V. Ted Brabham, a Florida supporter, remembers a private meeting in Orlando in which Mr. Clinton's own supporters pressed the Governor for reassurance. "Before we called in all our favors, we wanted to make damn sure we knew where we were going," Mr. Brabham said.
The Floridians put it to Mr. Clinton directly: Would he be driven from the race by personal scandal?
"No matter what happens, I'm going to be in it for the long haul," Mr. Clinton said.
Later, Mr. Brabham recalls, when the campaign was rocked by Gennifer Flowers's claim that Mr. Clinton had been her lover for 12 years, the Arkansas Governor relayed another message to the Floridians: "We will ride this storm out."
Mr. Clinton's tenacity is now part of Democratic Party legend. Whether he truly believed he would prevail or whether he was simply feigning confidence to keep his troops from bolting may never be known.
But on one point there is agreement: Mr. Clinton convinced those around him that he would never consider quitting, and for that reason, he can be credited with salvaging his campaign by a singular act of will.
But persistence is not Mr. Clinton's only asset. He is a son of the post-segregation South, a man who has always measured his opportunities well in advance and a leader throughout the 1980's in the movement to revive the Democratic party by developing a hybrid message that emphasized social welfare programs as well as fiscal responsibility and economic growth. In speeches, Mr. Clinton calls it the "third way."
 
A Long Journey From 'Dogpatch'
 Last night Mr. Clinton's tenacity brought him to the pinnacle of his career so far, rescuing him from the vicissitudes of one of the rockiest Presidential primary seasons in American politics. And it put him on the threshold of what could be one of the most brutal fall campaigns in recent history as President Bush and probably Ross Perot as well take on this gifted, but vulnerable politician from one of the nation's smallest and poorest states.
That state -- the model for the cartoonist Al Capp's hillbilly parody called "Dogpatch" -- imbued Bill Clinton with an underdog's tenacity and a poor-boy hunger for success and acclaim. But if the Democratic Presidential nominee bears the stamp of a rustic outpost of the old Confederacy, he also bears the stamp of a strong woman, his mother, and the scars of a flawed man, his stepfather. Somehow, the chemistry of place and family and a turbulent, but loving home produced the confidence in Mr. Clinton that he could someday be his party's nominee.
Mr. Clinton was born William Jefferson Blythe 3d in Hope, Ark., on Aug. 19, 1946, to Virginia Kelley, a striking woman whose traveling salesman husband, William Blythe, had been killed six months earlier when his car veered off a rain-slicked road.
The early tragedy would come to shape young Bill, who was haunted by the absence of a father he never knew. But by watching his mother rebuild their lives as she trained to become a nurse anesthetist, he learned another lesson. Persistence pays off.
At one of the lowest moments in his Presidential campaign, when he had plunged in overnight polls in what campaign aides called a "meltdown," Mr. Clinton excused himself from a critical strategy meeting in a motel room and disappeared. Later, his aides found him hunched over a pay phone in the lobby, calling his mother, as if to touch the wellspring of his tenacity, to make sure she was handling the bad publicity well.
Mrs. Kelley, a blunt-spoken woman with a white streak running through her hair and a taste for small-stakes gambling, says her son was always "very driven."
"If he was building a little sand castle or whatever, he was determined to finish what he started," she said yesterday on the NBC News "Today" program.
Mrs. Kelley, who has buried three husbands, provided her son a largely middle-class life first in Hope and then in Hot Springs, about 80 miles to the northeast. When she went to New Orleans to learn nursing, she took control of her life in a manner that was unusual for women of her time, leaving 2-year-old Bill with his grandparents until she had completed her education.
Mr. Clinton's grandparents ran a store in a predominantly black neighborhood, and he has said they taught him that segregation was wrong at a time when the practice was scarcely being questioned in the rural South.
 
Dramatic Confrontation With an Abusive Parent
 When Mr. Clinton was 7, his mother married Roger Clinton, a car dealer, and the family moved to Hot Springs, a gamy town where the Bible Belt ambiance of Arkansas was moderated by a thriving local tourist industry based on gambling and medicinal springs and bath houses.
At 14, Bill had gained some physical bulk and the courage to stand up to his stepfather, a generally easygoing man who turned mean when he drank too much.
In the "Today" interview, Mrs. Kelley told what happened that crucial day: "He asked his father, the only father that he ever knew, to stand up, he had something to say to him. And he was a little slow in doing that, and he said, 'Daddy, if you're not able to stand up, I'll help you; but you must stand up to hear what I have to say.' And he very quietly, very calmly, said, 'Don't ever, ever lay your hand on my mother again.' "
Yet only two years later, young Bill Blythe changed his name to Bill Clinton, accommodating his parents while sealing the loose ends in his own life. But the tension remained, and Mr. Clinton has said that he and his stepfather were reconciled only years later when the latter was dying of cancer.
Seen now against the backdrop of a politician who has sought to blend traditional Democratic social-welfare concerns with fiscal conservatism, the balancing act with his stepfather seems a blueprint for Mr. Clinton's drive to blend opposites and find common ground.
"He has always had the most extraordinary empathetic ability," said Thomas Caplan, a college roommate who is now a novelist in Baltimore. "I think he has a real keen appreciation for two things: one that he could be the other person in any situation, and also that luck plays a big role in success in life."
The shaping influence of those early years was powerful. Mr. Clinton's friends describe him as a man who yearns for control, a perfectionist. They say he feels profound frustration when events go awry.
His friend Garry Mauro, who is now the Texas Land Commissioner, said Mr. Clinton is the classic child of an alcoholic. The two men have been friends for 20 years, "but I always felt that he held a little something back," Mr. Mauro said. "Now I know he did."
 
Broad Repercussions From Meeting Kennedy
 For a time in high school, Mr. Clinton considered a career in medicine. Then in 1963, he was chosen to go to Washington as part of the American Legion program Boys' Nation, in which participants simulate a national government. There he shook hands with President John F. Kennedy in the White House Rose Garden.
The black-and-white photograph that recorded that meeting shows only the back and partial profile of Kennedy's head. But front and center is the eager boy with an overbite, leaning eagerly toward the President with his eyes shining.
"When he came back the first thing he did was open his bag and present me with this picture of himself with John Kennedy, shaking hands," his mother said yesterday, looking back on what she saw as the genesis of his political ambitions. "And I could just read the expression on his face, and I never questioned what he was going to do."
Mr. Clinton attended Georgetown University in Washington. When riots erupted in the capital after the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1968, he put a red cross on his white car and drove through disrupted neighborhoods delivering food and other supplies.
He spent his junior year working for Senator William J. Fulbright of Arkansas, who was chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He read six newspapers a day and had access to committee information that he says formed the basis of his opposition to the war in Vietnam.
In 1969, he won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford and, afterward his time abroad, went on to Yale Law School.
By then, the conflicts between political ambition and personal behavior had already begun to play themselves out in the decisions he made about what to do with his life.
He actively opposed the Vietnam War, but agonized over whether he should serve in the military. In the now-famous letter to the Hot Springs draft board that he mailed in 1969, he acknowledged that avoiding the draft could cripple his "political viability." So he signed a letter of intent to join the Reserve Officer Training Corps, but he reneged when it became likely that his draft number would not be called.
As a young man, Mr. Clinton was a devoted Baptist, often walking to church on Sundays with a Bible in hand when his less-devout parents did not attend. But he drifted away from religion while at college.
 
From Law School To Governor's Mansion
 At Yale he met the woman he would marry, Hillary Rodham. A bright Wellesley graduate from suburban Chicago, she had caught Mr. Clinton staring at her in the law school library and introduced herself.
Mrs. Clinton recalls: "I decided this was ridiculous. So I got up and walked up to him and waited until he finished, and I said, 'You know, if you're going to keep looking at me and I'm going to keep looking back, we at least ought to know each other.' "
The two fell in love and moved together to Texas, where they worked on George McGovern's Presidential campaign in 1972. Three years later, Mr. Clinton proposed marriage after buying a Fayetteville, Ark., house that Hillary had said she loved. The Clintons have one child, a daughter, Chelsea, now 12.
After his work for Mr. McGovern, Mr. Clinton worked in Washington for the House Judiciary Committee in 1973 before moving back to Arkansas. He taught at the University of Arkansas in Fayetteville in 1974-76, during which he made an unsuccessful race for Congress. In 1976 he was elected State Attorney General.
In 1978, at 32, he was elected the nation's youngest Governor. But two years later he became the nation's youngest defeated Governor when voters determined to teach him a lesson for raising automobile license fees and elected his Republican opponent.
Mr. Clinton would later attribute his defeat to his own youthful hubris. He had pushed a conservative state hard toward a progressive social agenda, and he conceded in speeches and interviews that the voters had a right to give him his comeuppance.
After the defeat, he curbed his most progressive instincts, and at the same time his wife acceded to voters' apparent wishes and assumed Mr. Clinton's last name for the first time. He ran for governor again in 1982 and was elected.
 
Learning Compromise, And Feeling Its Effects
 Mr. Clinton's ability to adapt to political circumstance -- which his critics call straddling -- became a hallmark of his career, whether it was in the ambivalence he displayed about whether to serve in the military or about abortion.
"What I have seen happen to Bill is he has learned the fine art of compromise," said Bev Lindsey, a friend who has worked for Mr. Clinton in the past and is now the campaign's chief scheduler. "And not compromise out of a sense of fear, but out of a sense of strength."
Mr. Clinton's career as Governor was threatened when he authorized a state police drug bust that he knew would result in the arrest of his only brother, Roger, who was using cocaine and who is now a recovering alcoholic. He has said he then joined his mother and his brother in seeking family counseling, but it was not until Mr. Clinton was forced to answer questions about his past during this year's primary campaign that he began to speak of the episode.
"People now are forgetting that he has had these kinds of battles," Ms. Lindsey said.
And now, in the midst of a remarkable election year, survival has become not only crucial to his success but it has also been redefined. Bill Clinton beat his opponents, beat the naysayers and, last night, beat the odds that he would never become the Democratic Presidential nominee in 1992.
As Governor, Mr. Clinton's desire to please occasionally conflicted with his determination to bring about change in a poor state that ranked low in education and high in rates of teen-age pregnancy. Like many other governors, he decided that what was good for industry was good for the state, and like his colleagues in other state houses, he raised taxes, diverting the revenues to school improvements.
Such conflicts have continued through his tenure in the Governor's Mansion. The evidence of his words show he has supported civil rights, but Arkansas does not have a civil rights law. He has cast himself as an environmentalist, but acknowledges that he made concessions to the state's giant chicken industry in deference to its outsized influence on Arkansas's economy.
 
Symbolizing a Generation Of Southern Politicians
 It goes unchallenged that Mr. Clinton is bright and addicted to detail. And when he is relaxed, his quickness translates into a ready sense of humor. But in private his ever-present public smile often gives way to flashes of anger in tongue lashings at his campaign staff when something is not going as he likes.
"I have several pairs of earplugs," said Betsey Wright, a friend, former top gubernatorial aide and now chief flak-catcher in the Clinton campaign.
Mr. Clinton's ability to weather political and personal storms will never count more than in the next three-and-a-half months as the White House prepares to shift into full political gear for the fall campaign.
Mr. Clinton has also come to represent his generation -- ambitious and politically flexible. But his years in Southern politics have lent him a pragmatic edge, rounded with a ready smile.
"Bill's always been one of those constantly evolving people," said Ms. Wright, who is part of a troika of powerful women in Mr. Clinton's life that includes his wife and his mother. "He's a lot better person for what he's been through."
But Paul Greenberg, the Pulitzer Prize-winning editor of the Arkansas Democrat Gazette's editorial page, is skeptical of the Governor's national reputation and is troubled by the notion that Mr. Clinton is motivated by much more than glorified self-interest.
"I've been writing for so many years about the hollowness at the center," said Mr. Greenberg, who is generally credited with inventing the sobriquet "Slick Willie" to describe Mr. Clinton as the ultimate accomodating politician.
For example, Mr. Clinton, who has fashioned a reputation as a champion of education, could not miss the political advantages of having his daughter attend public school in the black-majority Little Rock system. He mentions it frequently in speeches before black audiences.
In this year's series of campaign hurdles -- Gennifer Flowers and accusations of draft evasion in New Hampshire; Paul E. Tsongas and Edmund G. Brown Jr. in Colorado and Connecticut; hecklers and inhaling marijuana in New York -- Mr. Clinton put all of his flaws on display and emerged a wounded candidate.
Three weeks ago, he gave a group of talented summer school students in Conway, Ark. the advice that guides his campaign and his life as well.
"If you live long enough," he said, "you'll make mistakes. But if you learn from them, you'll be a better person. It's how you handle adversity, not how it affects you.
"The main thing is never quit, never quit, never quit."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Bill Clinton with his wife, Hillary, and daughter, Chelsea, responding to the cheers of delegates last night after his nomination. At left was Ronald H. Brown, the Democratic National Chairman. (Lee Romero/The New York Times); 1951: Bill Clinton in Hope, Ark., at the age of 5. (Associated Press); 1958: Mr. Clinton with his saxophone at age 12 in Hot Springs, Ark.; 1974: Mr. Clinton campaigning for Congress in Clarksville, Ark. His bid was unsuccessful. (Gary Settle/The New York Times); 1978: Mr. Clinton with his wife, Hillary, after he was elected the nation's youngest governor at age 32. (Associated Press); 1988: Mr. Clinton delivering a nominating speech for Michael S. Dukakis at the 1988 Democratic National Convention. The speech was a fiasco. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times) (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MAN IN THE NEWS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); SCANDALS (74%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (63%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) BILL CLINTON (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



492 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Bosnia, Where Titans Fear to Tread

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LONDON, July 15

 BODY:
At two separate summit meetings last week, President Bush and other world leaders sounded tough about what they would do if the Serbs did not call off their offensive in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But it is increasingly clear that none of them seem ready to authorize the kind of military action that might save the beleaguered Bosnians.
The reasons seem clear. In a complex conflict in a mountain country where the front lines are hazy and hatreds are deeply rooted in history, any peacemaking effort by outsiders would probably be difficult, dangerous and extremely drawn out -- a "quagmire," Mr. Bush called it, like Vietnam, Afghanistan or Lebanon. 
 No country, especially not one in the throes of election-year politics, wants a repeat of disasters like those.
In Yugoslavia, quick and easy success like the one in the war in the Persian Gulf last year would probably be out of the question. It took half a million soldiers to expel Iraq from Kuwait, and it would take at least that many to separate Serbian, Croatian, and Muslim militias and armies in the Balkans, British military experts believe.
 
A Baffling Struggle
 Some American military leaders fear that if foreign troops did go into the Balkans, they would quickly become targets for all the warring factions, just as the United States Marines drew the wrath of Lebanese Muslims a decade ago after the battleship New Jersey shelled their homes.
Western military experts also contend that air attacks against Serbian artillery positions in the hills around Sarajevo would not achieve much without an accompanying ground force.
Though their leaders usually spoke loftily of reversing aggression and enforcing a new world order, Americans understood why they should get involved in Kuwait: it was to make the world safe for Saudi Arabian oil. There is little oil in the Balkans, and the struggle there seems baffling, a quarrel among faraway peoples.
Europeans are closer to the Balkans, but not all of them by any means see compelling reasons to get involved. They might have if, after Tito's death in 1980, the Soviet Union had moved in on Yugoslavia. A Soviet threat to Belgrade then would have been seen as a Soviet threat to Bonn, Paris and London. But the Soviet Union is gone, and a Serbian attack on Bosnia and Herzegovina is no military threat to anybody in Western Europe these days.
The absence of great-power rivalry in the Balkans means that there will be no repeat of World War I, which started in Sarajevo. But it also means that the peoples of Yugoslavia may be left to fight it out on their own. The most Western powers have been willing to do so far is to make gestures they hope will somehow intimidate the warring parties into stopping the violence.
 
A Force Without a Sting
 Last week, for instance, NATO and the nine-nation Western European Union, another military alliance, announced that they were sending a naval force to the Adriatic to bolster the United Nations economic sanctions imposed on the Serbian-dominated Government of Yugoslavia.
But in announcing today that it would send a destroyer to join the naval force, the German Government promised that the ship would never be called upon to fire a shot in anger. All it would do, officials in Bonn said, was observe compliance with the sanctions and send radio reports back to the United Nations.
This, it has become clear, is about the limit of the naval operation. "Nobody's calling it a blockade," a United States Navy officer said here this week.
Similarly, the leaders of seven major industrial democracies agreed at Munich last week that they would be willing to provide air and naval cover if the United Nations had to force open a ground corridor from the sea to Sarajevo. But none said they were willing to provide troops to do the dirty work on the ground.
 
Talks, but No Breakthrough
 So the war goes on. Lord Carrington, the European Community envoy who has been trying unsuccessfully for the last year to get the warring parties in what used to be Yugoslavia to stop fighting, tried again here today with leaders of the three major factions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There was no sign of a breakthrough.
"The best thing that's happened today is that they've all three turned up," he said, as the leaders of the Muslim-dominated Bosnian Government and the fledgling country's Serbian and Croatian communities continued talking in a hotel with a European Community mediator, Jose Cutileiro of Portugal, but not directly with each other.
"I will not sit with a child-killer," said Bosnia's Foreign Minister, Haris Silajdzic, refusing to meet with the leader of Bosnia's Serbs, Radovan Karadzic. Lord Carrington said with a sigh, almost wearily, that he had heard most of this before.
The war has already produced the worst refugee crisis in Europe since World War II, though the community countries, except for Germany, have so far managed to shut it out. They may not be able to much longer. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Sadako Ogata, is expected in London on Thursday, reportedly seeking support for an emergency United Nations conference on refugees to be held in Geneva.
"Where there is no will for peace, we cannot supply it," said the British Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, who began a trip to the Balkans today. But if stronger sanctions against violence cannot be supplied either, the drift to wider war may continue.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Serbian soldiers taking a break yesterday during a lull in fighting in the Bosnian town of Gorazde. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); LEBANON (92%); KUWAIT (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); CROATIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (76%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (55%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (55%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA (YUGOSLAVIA) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); LEBANON (92%); KUWAIT (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%); CROATIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (76%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MILITARY ACTION; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS WAR & CONFLICT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); ARMIES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (72%); WORLD WAR I (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); RELIGION (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



493 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Dutch Firm Indicted For Selling Iraq Gear For Fighting at Night

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 15

 BODY:
A Federal grand jury indicted a Dutch company and four former employees of subsidiary enterprises today for conspiring to sell sophisticated night vision gear to Iraq in violation of United States arms export control laws.
Terence J. Lynam, a lawyer representing the company, Delft Instruments N.V., said it would "enter a guilty plea to the charges in the indictment, probably by Friday." 
 He said all four employees named in the indictment were dismissed a year ago when Delft discovered the exports.
Delft used components built by two American companies to make prototypes of night imaging equipment and then sold the devices to Iraq, prosecutors said. Among the devices were a thermal camera that could be used by soldiers to locate targets at night and a system designed to allow tanks to see after dark, they said.
 
Sales Preceded Gulf War
 Delft sold the equipment to Iraq from 1988 to 1990, with the final transfer taking place after Iraq invaded Kuwait on Aug. 2, 1990. The indictment says the company acted improperly because it had been licensed to use the American-made components only in connection with its military contracts in the Netherlands and India.
Jay B. Stephens, the United States Attorney here, said that because none of the equipment had been recovered, it unclear whether Iraq had used the equipment in combat against allied forces during the Persian Gulf war.
Another American official said it was widely believed in military circles that the equipment had been used in combat, but that the evidence was inadequate to establish this in court.
An Iraqi night attack on Khafji, Saudi Arabia, on Jan. 29, 1991, two weeks into the gulf war, was thought to have been aided by night vision equipment. The offensive surprised allied commanders, who had underestimated Iraqi night-fighting abilities.
The night vision equipment was part of a $35 million deal between Delft and the Iraqi Government financed under a letter of credit issued in Atlanta by the Banco Nazionale Del Lavoro, the Italian bank that has been accused of fraudulently helping Iraq underwrite its weapons program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (72%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); GULF STATES (58%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: DELFT INSTRUMENTS NV DELFT INSTRUMENTS NV (72%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELFT INSTRUMENTS NV

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); GULF STATES (58%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) INDICTMENTS (92%); ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (90%); GRAND JURY (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CONSPIRACY (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); LAWYERS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (71%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



494 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: GERMANY TO SEND FORCE TO BALKANS

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BONN, July 15

 BODY:
Germany announced plans today to send a destroyer and three reconnaissance planes to join in enforcing United Nations sanctions against Yugoslavia. The German Defense and Foreign Ministers, who announced the decision, said it did not violate constitutional restrictions on the use of military force abroad.
Leaders of the opposition Social Democratic Party at first threatened to challenge the Government in a constitutional court case, but later withdrew their objections. 
 Defense Minister Volker Ruhe told reporters that the destroyer Bayern, which carries a crew of 267, was in port in southern Italy and would sail into the Adriatic early Thursday.
He said the Bayern would serve as part of a seven-nation force assembled by the Western European Union and NATO, which voted in Helsinki Friday to establish an air-and-sea patrol to monitor compliance with United Nations sanctions against Yugoslavia, which now consists of only Serbia and Montenegro. Turkey, Greece, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands and the United States are also contributing units.
 
'We Hate War'
 The patrol force will not impose a blockade, and participating vessels will be under orders to remain at least 15 miles from any coast. Captains have orders not to intercept suspicious ships, but simply to observe them and report their movements to the United Nations.
Mr. Ruhe described Germany's participation in the force as "clearly less than a military operation," but conceded that it was "a new situation" for the post-war German military.
"It is in no way a display of German military power," Mr. Ruhe said. "We hate war, and we are trying to suffocate a war."
The leftist Social Democrats have traditionally opposed every effort to expand the grounds on which German troops can be sent abroad. Their apparent decision today not to oppose the Adriatic mission reflected the party's effort to break with a radical image that has hurt it in past elections.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl did not call Parliament back from its summer recess to debate the mission, and the Social Democrats did not demand a special session. But members of the defense and foreign affairs committees are to meet on Thursday.
"This is the closest we have ever been to a serious mission," said Werner Hoyer, a member of the defense committee.
"We must make it clear that it is not our desire to show our military insignia around the world," Mr. Hoyer said. "But we are damned if we do and damned if we don't. If we do nothing, the world will say, 'Look at those Germans, they are rich and now united, and now they are buying their way out of their obligations, and others have to spill the blood.' "
Though the air and naval patrol is one of the first concrete steps taken to enforce United Nations sanctions against Yugoslavia, some specialists in Bonn said today it was largely symbolic. They said much of the freight coming into Serbian-controlled territory, including fuel and weapons, is being smuggled down the Danube from central Europe, by air through Austria, or overland from Greece and Romania.
 
Post-Genscher Policies
 The growing debate over German participation in overseas missions is part of a political reassessment that dates from the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990. German leaders said they wanted to take part actively in the anti-Iraq coalition, but that the Constitution forbade them to do so.
Chancellor Kohl and others are urging that the Constitution be amended to allow German participation in international missions. But pacifism is widespread in Germany, and many citizens, chastened by the lessons of 20th-century history, do not want German soldiers to be sent abroad for any reason.
Today's decision to send a German vessel to the Adriatic, and thereby to challenge a cherished aspect of German security policy, reflected the generational change that recently reshaped Bonn's security establishment.
For more than a decade, German foreign policy was shaped by Hans-Dietrich Genscher, who not only ran the Foreign Ministry but also strongly influenced defense policy. Since Mr. Genscher's resignation in May, a new approach to policy planning has emerged from his successor, Klaus Kinkel, 56 years old, and from Mr. Ruhe, 50.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); ITALY (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SERBIA (79%); GREECE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); TURKEY (79%); 

STATE: BAVARIA, GERMANY (74%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (56%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (56%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YUGOSLAVIA; GERMANY GERMANY (98%); ITALY (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SERBIA (79%); GREECE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); TURKEY (79%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (74%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: KINZER, STEPHEN VOLKER RUHE (75%); HANS-DIETRICH GENSCHER (65%); WERNER HOYER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



495 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Jinotega Journal;
O.A.S. Goes in Peace (That's What It Came For)

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JINOTEGA, Nicaragua

 BODY:
One day last September, as a group of veterans of the contra struggle against the Sandinistas stood on a rain-drenched hilltop near here and threatened to go to war again, a white four-wheel-drive vehicle with the letters "C.I.A.V.-O.E.A." on the side made its way up the muddy slope.
A smiling young man in jeans jumped out and began to work the crowd, shaking hands and engaging in small talk as if the grizzled men he met were holding cocktail glasses instead of M-16 rifles. 
 For the visitor to the hilltop, 29-year-old Alejandro Guido, it was another morning's work as a member of the team put together by the Organization of American States to keep the contras from going back to war and the Sandinistas from abusing and inflaming them.
Officially, the mission is called the International Commission of Support and Verification/Organization of American States, and is known as C.I.A.V.-O.E.A., its initials in Spanish.
 
Money Is Running Out
 In the two and a half years since Violeta Barrios de Chamorro was elected President and disarmament began, the energetic group of mostly young professionals from several South American countries have become Nicaragua's political firefighters, responding whenever ideological passions clashed, or threatened to do so, in hundreds of provincial towns, hamlets and farms.
But with the $40 million in mostly American financing running out, the mission is preparing to close. This means that for the first time since the decadelong war ended, the two sides in Nicaragua will be alone with each other.
There will no longer be the calming influence of well-intentioned and unarmed foreigners racing to the scene of trouble by jeep or helicopter or, more often than they like, paddling a river boat or plodding along by mule.
A few months after he left his job as a Government tax lawyer in his native Uruguay to seek adventure in Nicaragua, Mr. Guido found himself shuttling back and forth across the Segovia River at Wiwili by rowboat to mediate between pro-contra townspeople and Sandinistas fighting for control of the local police.
Even the 52-year-old director of the mission, Santiago Murray, has spent as much or more time trying to block new conflicts in these northwestern hills, where most of the contra-Sandinista war was waged throughout the 1980's, as he has in dealing with officials in Managua, the capital.
Mr. Murray, an Argentine economist and former businessman who is now a senior member of the O.A.S. staff in Washington, pursued one particularly recalcitrant former contra by mule deep into the mountains after the man, known by his nom de guerre, Indomable, left barely legible notes asking for meetings.
Eventually, Mr. Murray delivered Indomable to a Government negotiating table, guaranteed his security, and tried to calm him when the encounter threatened to erupt into shooting.
Although the Sandinistas have sometimes accused Mr. Murray of partiality toward the contras and Government officials have winced under his pressures for policy changes, a Western diplomat praised his role as that of "the pre-eminent honest broker in town."
Nicaragua still seems to be a series of political volcanos about to erupt, but Mr. Murray said in an interview in Managua that he believed it was time to leave.
The mission is scheduled to close in September, but he said it might take until almost the end of the year to shut down completely. The Nicaraguan Government had asked the O.A.S. to continue for six months longer, but the Bush Administration said the money was not available.
The international staff is already down to 23, less than half the number who began work in 1990.
The initial mandate of the mission was to feed and protect the former contras as they came home from camps in Honduras and reintegrated themselves into a society where, despite Mrs. Chamorro's election, the Sandinistas still hold the guns through control of the army and police.
Later, after Sandinista leaders complained that there were many Sandinistas who needed help because they were being demobilized from the army, the mission extended humanitarian services to Sandinistas as well.
"I think we did our job," Mr. Murray said. "When we began, in March 1990, there was a full contra army in place, with all its armaments and equipment. That army doesn't exist anymore."
Mr. Guido noted that in his region, Jinotega Department, "there were four or five deaths a week last year."
"Now it's just one every so often," he said. "From here to Wiwili you used to see six to eight armed groups along the road. But no more."
The calming of Nicaragua has turned out to be a much bigger undertaking than first imagined.
"When we started, we thought there were 120,000 to 150,000 weapons in civilian hands," Mr. Murray said. "But we have brought in and destroyed 137,000, and there are -- I don't know how many -- left. Just yesterday, the disarmament brigades blew up two tons of explosives that civilians turned in."
Mr. Murray recognizes that there are still at least a few dozen, and maybe more, former contras still running around the hills armed, pretending to be in revolt and living by methods like stealing peasants' cows.
"We demobilized 28,000 contras," he said. "Maybe 1 percent of them are psychopaths. For them, war has become a way of life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Santiago Murray, left, a senior member of the Organization of American States, met with two former contras in a housing project near the town of Sebaco, Nicaragua. Mr. Murray has headed the O.A.S. mission to demobilize the 28,000 contra troops in Nicaragua. (Raoul Shade for The New York Times)
 
Map of Nicaragua showing location of Jinotega.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); URUGUAY (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) A/S C AARSLEW-JENSEN (69%); A/S C AARSLEW-JENSEN (69%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (97%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (97%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA NICARAGUA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); URUGUAY (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE CIVIL WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MOUNTAINS (71%); BOATING & RAFTING (68%); LAWYERS (67%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (67%); CITY LIFE (64%); CITIES (64%); POLICE FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY; CHAMORRO, VIOLETA BARRIOS DE (PRES) ALEJANDRO GUIDO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



496 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 2995 words

HEADLINE: IN THEIR OWN WORDS;
Address Delivered by Cuomo Nominating Clinton for Presidency

 BODY:
Following is the speech delivered last night by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo at the Democratic National Convention, as transcribed by The New York Times.
I don't want to go overtime. They warned me I might wind up playing the accordion on the Arsenio Hall Show, so let's ---- Tonight, tonight I will have the great privilege and honor of placing before you the name of the next President of the United States of America, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas. 
 It seems to me that this is not a matter of our wanting Bill Clinton, it is much, much more than that. We need Bill Clinton because he is our only hope for change from this nation's current disastrous course.
Eight years ago, in San Francisco, some of us tried to convince America that while President Reagan was telling us we were all one "shining city on a hill," there was another city, where people were struggling, many of them living in pain. And we tried to tell America that unless we changed policies -- unless we expanded opportunity -- the deterioration of the other city would spread.
Well we Democrats failed to reach enough Americans with that message, and now the nation has paid an awful price. We cannot afford to fail again.
 
Lives of Pain
 The price is too high.
For the first time in their lives, millions of Americans who took for granted the basic right to make a living with one's own hands and mind and heart, have been denied the dignity of earning their own bread.
Today, a 50-year-old father lives nearly in terror at the prospect that if he is laid off now -- as so many people around him have been -- in addition to losing everything else, he'll lose his health insurance, too.
"What if I'm struck by cancer? My God, what about the mortgage? What about my son in college? And my daughter who's graduating high school? How will they get an education? And will they find a job even if they get an education?" How could it have happened? In a country where the executives of companies that fail, the presidents and chairmen of companies that make profits by trading solid American jobs for cheap labor overseas, can make $5 million, $10 million, $15 million a year? How did it happen? How can our middle-class workers be in such terrible jeopardy?
A million children a year leaving school for the mean streets, a million a year surrounded by prostitutes and drug dealers, by violence and degradation of all kinds.
Some of them growing up familiar with the sound of gunfire before they've ever heard an orchestra; becoming young adults, only to be instructed by the powerful evidence of their surroundings, that there is little hope for them -- even in America.
Nearly a whole generation surrendering in despair -- to drugs, to having children while they're still children, to hopelessness. How did it happen, here, in the most powerful nation in the world?
It's a terrible tragedy. Not only for our children, but for all of America.
They are not my children, perhaps. Perhaps they are not your children, either. But Jesse is right: They are our children.
And we should love them. We should, we should love them. That's compassion.
But there's common sense at work here as well, because even if we were hard enough to choose not to love them, we would still need them to be sound and productive, because they are the nation's future.
 
Failed Economic Policy
 It would be bad enough if we could believe that all of this unhappiness and failure is the result of a terrible but only a temporary recession.
But this, ladies and gentlemen, is more than a recession. Our economy has been weakened fundamentally by 12 years of conservative Republican supply-side policy, so called.
In fact, in fact supply-side was just another version of the failed Republican dogma of 65 years ago, then called "trickle down," which led to the Great Depression. And it has failed us again!
Think about supply-side. Supply-side operated from the naive Republican assumption that if we fed the wealthiest Americans with huge income tax cuts, they would eventually produce loaves and fishes for everyone. Instead, it made a small group of our wealthiest Americans wealthier than ever and left the rest of the country the crumbs from their tables. Unemployment, bankruptcy, economic stagnation.
Today, today, as we've heard so many times, a $400 billion annual deficit and a $4 trillion national debt hang like great albatrosses around our nation's neck, strangling our economy, menacing our future. Remember, we became a great nation by making things and selling them to others for their marks and their yens. But today, we buy from Japan and Germany and other nations the things we used to make and sell to them -- automobiles and radios and televisions and clothing --giving them our dollars for their goods.
And then at the end of the year, because we spend so much more than we collect in these reduced taxes, we borrow back those dollars, paying billions more of our dollars in interest, increasing our debt -- decreasing our ability to invest in our children, our schools -- perpetuating a mad economic cycle that threatens to spin us totally out of control.
In no time at all, in no time at all, we have gone from the greatest seller nation, the greatest lender nation, the greatest creditor nation to, today, the world's largest buyer, the world's largest borrower and the world's largest debtor nation. That is Republican supply-side.
And that, ladies and gentlemen, that is the legacy of the Bush years. The slowest economic growth for any four-year Presidential term since Herbert Hoover. An economy crippled by debt and deficit. The fading of the American dream. Working-class families sliding back down toward poverty again, deprivation, inexplicable violence.
 
Desire for Change
 And after 12 years, Americans are disillusioned, and they are angry, and they are fearful. And Americans showed that with the quick embrace they gave to the sudden appearance on television of a provocative, wealthy businessman who said he'd like to be President. Before he told anyone what he intended to do or how he would do it, he used one word and applause broke out all over America. The word was "change!"
Of course, the American people want change, of course we want something better than George Bush and the politics of decline, decay and deception.
And beginning with this convention, we -- you and I -- must demonstrate to all the American people that change for the better is at hand, ready, able, eager to serve -- in the person of -- yes -- Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas. and this time, this time we cannot afford to fail to deliver the message, not just to Democrats but to the whole nation. Because the ship of state is headed for the rocks.
The crew knows it. The passengers know it.Only the captain of the ship, President Bush, appears not to know it.
He seems to think ---- no, no, no, you see the President seems to think that the ship will be saved by imperceptible undercurrents, directed by the invisible hand of some cyclical economic god, that will gradually move the ship so that at the last moment it will miraculously glide past the rocks.
Well, prayer, prayer is always a good idea: but our prayers must be accompanied by good works. We need a captain who understands that, and who will seize the wheel -- before it's too late. I am here tonight to offer America that new captain with a new course before it is too late and he is Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas.
 
Politics of Inclusion
 Bill Clinton, Bill Clinton understands that a great political party must apply the best of its accumulated wisdom to the new configurations of a changing reality. He cherishes the ideals of justice and liberty and opportunity and fairness and compassion that Robert Kennedy died for. But he knows that these ideals require new implementations, new ways to provide incentive, to reward achievement, to encourage entrepreneurship, to develop jobs. Bill Clinton believes, as we all here do, in the first principle of our Democratic commitment: the politics of inclusion -- the solemn obligation to create opportunity for all of our people, not just the fit and the fortunate.
For the aging factory worker in Pittsburgh and the schoolchild in Atlanta; for the family farmer in Des Moines and the eager immigrants, sweating to make their place alongside of us, here in New York City, and in San Francisco. For all the people; for the bright, young businesswoman in Chicago; all the people from wherever, no matter how recently, of whatever color, of whatever creed, of whatever sex, of whatever sexual orientation, all of them, equal members of the American family, and the neediest of them -- the neediest of them deserving the most help from the rest of us. That is the fundamental Democratic predicate. Surrender that Democratic principle, and we might just as well tear the donkeys from our lapels, pin elephants on instead, and retreat to elegant estates behind ivy-covered walls, where, when they detect a callus on their palms, they conclude it's time to put down their polo mallet.
Bill Clinton believes that the closest thing to a panacea that we have is described by a simple, four letter word "work!" He has been living that truth all of his life.
So, Bill Clinton believes that what we most need now is to create jobs, by investing in the rebuilding of our cities; the shoring up of our agricultural strength; by investing to produce well-trained workers, new technologies, safe energy, entrepreneurship, laying the foundations for economic growth into the next century with free enterprise for the many, not free enterprise for the few, pulling people off welfare, off unemployment, giving people back their dignity and their confidence.
And unlike the other candidates -- unlike the other candidates -- and they all talk about jobs, Bill Clinton has a solid, intelligent workable plan to produce these jobs.
 
On Will and Wealth
 But President Bush disagrees with Bill Clinton. President Bush says we cannot afford to do all that needs to be done. He says we have the will but not the wallet.
Bill Clinton knows that we have the wealth available, we have proven it over and over every time the dramatic catastrophe strikes.
Remember the savings and loans?
Governors and mayors had gone to Washington, and I was among them, to plead for help for education, for job training, for roads and bridges, for drug treatment. "Sorry, there is none," said the President. "We're broke. We have the will but not the wallet." And we put our heads down.
And then Americans discovered that wealthy bankers -- educated in the most exquisite forms of conservative, Republican banking -- through their incompetence and thievery, and the Government's neglect, had stolen or squandered everything in sight!
The world's greatest bank robbery and we heard no moralizing about values then from our Republican leaders then, did we?
Instead of castigations, mirabile dictu -- all of a sudden -- the heavens opened, and out of the blue, billions of dollars appeared.
Not for children. Not for jobs. Not for drug treatment or for the ill or for health care. But hundreds of billions of dollars to bail out failed savings and loans. Billions for war. Billions for earthquakes if they strike, God forbid, and hurricanes and Bill Clinton asks, If we can do all of this for these spectacular catastrophes when they occur, why can we not find the wealth to respond to the quiet catastrophes that every day oppress the lives of thousands, that destroy our children with drugs-- all the quiet catastrophes, the quiet catastrophes that kill thousands with terrible new diseases like AIDS, that deprive our people of the sureness of adequate health care, that stifle our future.
Bill Clinton asks the question, Bill Clinton has the answer. And America needs Bill Clinton, too, because he understands that we must deal with what could be -- eventually -- the most lethal problem of all: a degraded environment -- one that kills life in our lakes with acid rain; allows cancer-causing rays to pierce a deteriorated ozone shield and threatens to convert the entire planet into a cosmic hothouse.
Bill Clinton made clear how well he understands that when he announced Senator Al Gore would be the next Vice President of the United States of America.
 
Attributes of Leadership
 America -- America needs Bill Clinton. America needs Bill Clinton for still another reason.
We need a leader who will stop the Republican attempt, through laws and through the courts, to tell us what God to believe in, and how to apply that God's judgment to our schoolrooms, our bedrooms and our bodies.
Bill Clinton, Bill Clinton knows the course from here, past peril, to a new era of growth and progress for this nation that will enable us to share our power and our abundance with the whole world community.
He was born and raised, fortunately for us, with the personal attributes needed for leadership: God-given intelligence, vitality and an extraordinary quality of character that allowed him to survive the buffeting and the trauma of a difficult youth. He was born poor in Hope, Ark. Now the accents, even the colors may have been a tint different but the feelings were the same that many of us experienced on the asphalt streets of some of the nation's great cities. The same pain, the same anguish, the same hope. he has lived through years of hard challenges since that difficult youth. And with each new challenge he has grown wiser and stronger as he demonstrated so well with his remarkable resiliency in the recent bruising Democratic primaries.
I will tell you this. In a world of fragile and thin-skinned politicians, he was an admirable aberration.
Bill Clinton has always been driven by the desire to lift himself above his own immediate concerns: to give himself to something larger than himself.
His entire life has been devoted to helping others through public service and for 11 years now, he has been the Governor of his beloved state, protecting Arkansas from a Federal Government that has been depriving the states and cities for over a decade, balancing 11 budgets in a row, doing the things that governors and presidents are supposed to do -- enforcing the laws, providing education and opportunities for children and young adults, expanding health care, attracting new jobs, and reaching out to heal wounds caused by 300 years of unfairness and oppression.
He has done it so well that the nation's other governors, both Democratic and Republican, have repeatedly acknowledged him to be a national leader.
All this time, all this time, all this time Bill Clinton has worked to relieve other people's discomfort because he remembers his own struggle.
That's why we need Bill Clinton -- because Bill Clinton still remembers, because he is equipped to break the awful grid lock in Washington and to deliver effective government finally -- because he will remind that nation that we are too good to make war out most successful enterprise. That's why we need Bill Clinton. We need Bill Clinton because he does not believe that the way to win political support is to pit one group against another.
Bill Clinton does not believe in the cynical political arithmetic that says you can add by subtracting, you can multiply by dividing. He rejects that. Instead, instead he will work to make the whole nation stronger, by bringing people together, showing us our commonality, instructing us in cooperation, making us not a collection of competing special interests, but one great, special family -- the family of America!
For all these reasons, we must make Bill Clinton the next President of the United States of America.
 
Visions of a Great Parade
 Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago in this great city led by our great mayor -- Mayor Dinkins -- we had a great parade in New York City to celebrate the return of our armed forces from the Persian Gulf.
I'm sure you had one too.
But as joyous as those parades were, I'd like to march with you in a different kind of celebration, one, regrettably, that we cannot hold yet.
I'd like to march with you behind President Bill Clinton through cities and rural villages where all the people have safe streets, and affordable housing and health care when they need it.
I want to clap my hands and throw my fists in the air, cheering neighborhoods where children can be children, where they can grow up and get the chance to go to college, and one day own their own home.
I want to sing -- proud songs, happy songs -- arm in arm with workers who have a real stake in their company's success; who once again have the assurance that a lifetime of hard work will make life better for their children than it had been for them.
I want march behind President Bill Clinton in a victory parade that sends up fireworks, celebrating the triumph of our technology centers and factories, outproducing and outselling our overseas competitors.
I want to march with you -- I want to march with you -- knowing that we are selecting justices to the Supreme Court who are really qualified to be there and justices -- justices who understand the basic American right of each individual to make his or her own private moral and religious judgments.
I want to look around and feel the warmth, the pride, the profound gratitude of knowing that we are making America surer, stronger and sweeter. I want to shout out our thanks because President Bill Clinton has helped us to make the greatest nation in the world better than it's ever been.
So step aside, Mr. Bush. You've had your parade!
It's time -- it's time for change. It's time for someone smart enough to know; strong enough to do; sure enough to lead.
The Comeback Kid. A new voice for a new America.
Because I love New York, because I love America, I nominate for the office of the President of the United States, the man from Hope, Ark., Gov. Bill Clinton!


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); OVERTIME (89%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); CHILDREN (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (62%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



497 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
PROSECUTING 'QUALITY OF LIFE' CRIMINALS
To help clear midtown streets of prostitutes, chain-snatchers and other so-called quality-of-life criminals, New York State court officials will open an arraignment court later this year in an old courthouse on West 54th Street. B3.
 
OFFICER IN SHOOTING TESTIFIES
Michael O'Keefe, the police officer whose fatal shooting of a Dominican man ignited angry protests in Washington Heights last week, has told the Manhattan District Attorney's office that he fired in self-defense after the man pulled a gun on him, a law-enforcement official and a lawyer connected to the case said. B3.
 
 TRIAL OPENS IN KILLING OF 10-YEAR-OLD
Alejandro Henriquez blew a kiss toward the back of a Bronx courtroom, then sat stone-still as a prosecutor told a jury that he was the only man who could have strangled three girls, including 10-year-old Jessica Guzman. In a brief opening statement, the prosecutor outlined the evidence against Mr. Henriquez, a 31-year-old livery car driver charged in three of the six similar slayings that outraged and brought together a Bronx community. B3.
 
 JUDGE GIVES BAND SHELL NEW LIFE
Ruling that the Naumburg Bandshell in Central Park was a gift to New York City and therefore must, by law, be preserved, a state judge in Manhattan prohibited the city Department of Parks and Recreation from demolishing the band shell. B3.
 
 STATUES OF AMERICAN WOMEN FOR PARKS
Women in New York's public monuments are legends or fantasies or allegories, not prominent Americans. But that is about to change, with the arrival of Gertrude Stein in Bryant Park and plans for an Eleanor Roosevelt memorial in Riverside Park. B3.
 
 NEW YORK DEMOCRATS APPEAL FOR UNITY
With New York's favorite son orphaned by self-doubt, the state's typically fractious Democrats were papering over their differences and their own doubts in unusual appeals for unanimity that could be crucial to Bill Clinton's campaign for the Presidency. A13.
 
 New York a big hospitality suite to convention delegates from Montana. A13.
 
 Democratic message tested in Northeastern Queens. A13.
 
 REGION
 
 JUDGE APPROVES ELEMENTS OF YONKERS PLAN
Urging the city of Yonkers to move "full-speed ahead," a Federal judge gave city officials four months to prove that their plan to end housing segregation would work. The judge approved critical elements of the city's plan, which relies heavily on existing housing rather than new construction. B6.
 
 FISCAL PROBLEMS EASE IN SUFFOLK
An increase in sales-tax revenues has eased Suffolk County's financial crisis and enabled officials to reconsider plans to borrow money, cut wages and lay off county employees. B8.
 
 EXAMINING WATERFRONT STREET CLOSINGS
State officials are looking into the practice of several southern New Jersey municipalities of selling or giving away waterfront land at street ends, allowing adjacent property owners to fence off what were traditional fishing and crabbing areas. B6.
 
Piscataway Journal B6
Chronicle B10

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Pulse: Air Freight" shows domestic and international freight leaving Kennedy, LaGuardia and Newark, in thousands of tons, 1990-May 1992 [estimate]. (Source: Port Authority)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRYANT PARK GRILL (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); JUDGES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); JURY TRIALS (78%); COUNTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); CITIES (73%); SELF DEFENSE (73%); WOMEN (72%); SCULPTURE (69%); ORPHANS (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (62%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (62%); LAYOFFS (61%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); SALES TAX (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



498 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Telephone companies will be able to transmit television programming to homes over their telephone lines, under a rule the F.C.C. will adopt today. The move that could lead to formidable competition for cable television companies. [Page A1.]
Companies would have to value more of their investments at market value under a compromise proposal from the Financial Accounting Standards Board. The intent is to avoid problems like those in the savings and loan crisis. [D1.] 
 Industrial production fell three-tenths of 1 percent in June, and factory utilization slipped to 78.5 percent, its lowest level in three months. Also, a rise in inventories combined with a slip in sales caused the inventory-to-sales ratio, which had been hovering around 1.49, to increase to 1.52, signs of a sluggish economy. [D2.]
 
International
Mexico tentatively agreed to pay bonuses to United States and Canadian oil drillers for good performance, resolving an important obstacle toward a North American free-trade agreement. [D1.]
Germany plans to privatize its two money-losing state railways by the year 2002 -- coming full circle from the turn of the century when they were nationalized. [D15.]
 
Companies
Apple and Microsoft, burying the hatchet, announced they would work to make Microsoft programs run on Macintoshes. [D1.]
American Airlines' parent company lost $166 million in the second quarter. The loss underscored the effects of the airlines' fare war, but AMR cited two special charges. [D4.]
Simon & Schuster promoted Nina Hoffman to president and publisher of the unit for popular reference classics. [D5.]
Bank of New York had a 45 percent rise in net income, and Fleet Financial Group's more than doubled to $71 million. [D4.]
Ford announced a 2.9 percent average price rise on most 1993 model cars -- or $599 more than comparable 1992 models. [D4.]
CSX said it would take a $450 million after-tax charge in the second quarter to pay for severance packages for train crews, as well as certain premiums for union members. [D5.]
Equitable Life Assurance Society's initial stock offering was priced at $9 a share, below its hoped-for range of $11 to $14. [D4.]
A Japanese executive died from overwork, a Government agency certified. Jun Ishii, 47, a Mitsui official, spent one day out of every three on the road before dying last year. [D4.]
 
Markets
Heavy selling of banking and oil stocks broke Wall Street's four-session winning streak. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 12.97 points, to 3,345.42. [D8.]
California debt securities were lowered two notchs by Standard & Poor's to A+ from AA, stunning the municipal bond market. [D15.] Prices of Treasury securities moved higher, and interest rates, including long-term bond yields, moved lower. [D15.]
The dollar declined against most major foreign currencies, in trading dominated by speculation that the Bundesbank would again raise interest rates, making the mark more attractive. [D16.]
Wheat futures prices rose strongly, with export demand rising and delays in field work as the winter wheat harvest ends. [D16.]
 
Today's Columns
Hard times could put Bill Clinton in the White House. But they could bury his Administration, much as they threaten George Bush's. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
I.B.M.'s impressive progress in its drive to slim down and cut costs is leading analysts to see big profit gains, but they are less sure of long-term growth prospects. Market Place. [D8.]
Jaguar's American unit moved its account to Ogilvy & Mather from Geer, DuBois. It was the first big victory for Ogilvy's new chairwoman. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (82%); BK (NYSE) (70%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (82%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (82%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); APPLE INC (82%); AMR CORP (82%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (70%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (57%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (57%); FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (83%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); BANK FAILURES (71%); SAVINGS & LOANS (71%); AIRLINES (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (69%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); SEVERANCE PAY (68%); OIL EXTRACTION (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); STOCK OFFERINGS (65%); PRICE CUTTING (64%); LIFE INSURANCE (61%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); ACCOUNTING (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



499 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: UNDER THE BIG TOP;
Excerpts From Remarks Delivered by Tsongas and Brown at the Convention

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from speeches at the Democratic National Convention by selected speakers, as transcribed by The New York Times.
 
Paul E. Tsongas
Ex-Senator From Massachusetts
 Franklin Delano Roosevelt is our patron saint. He brought economic hope out of deep economic despair.
We must do the same. 
 Central to this mission is to understand one basic reality -- everything we hope to do, everything we hope to do, depends on an expanding economic pie. And only a vibrant, competitive, thriving private sector can create that. Government is a necessary partner, but it is the junior partner.
Only the private sector can produce the revenues for the social programs that we Democrats care so much about. The financing of those programs through ever more public debt violates our generation responsibility.
The realities are simple. You cannot redistribute wealth that you never created. You cannot be pro-jobs and anti-business at the same time. You cannot love employment and hate employers.
I know I have said it so often before, but I believe it is fundamental:
No goose, no golden eggs.
Americans know we are in trouble.
Americans know that we must use our resources to reinvigorate the essential engine of our economy, the manufacturing base.
They know that what the middle class of our country needs is a job. Using scarce resources to provide a tax cut instead of creating jobs is not fairness.
Creating a job so that American men and women can provide a decent living for their families -- my fellow Democrats, that is fairness. That is fairness.
Americans know that we must end the obscenity of massive budget deficits, and they are prepared to embrace the principle of shared sacrifice. America is ready for a cap on spending that shows that, at last, at last, the games in Washington are over and fiscal discipline will prevail.
Americans know that we must repair our infrastructure. That's the easy part. But they also know that we have to pay for that repair andnot borrow from our children to finance it.
If you are going to do it, you'd better pay for it. That they know.
And finally, and finally and most difficult, Americans know that uncontrolled entitlements will rob our children and our grandchildren of their economic future. To run and hide on this most difficult issue is to insure future warfare between the generations.
 
Edmund G. Brown Jr.
Ex-Governor of California
Whatever the odds, whoever the adversaries, however long it takes -- We will create the power for the powerless.
For there is no other reason for a Democratic Party to exist.
Except for the influence of power and money, how can we explain why high-priced corporate lunches are tax deductible but not the hard-earned tuition payments of struggling students. You tell me, because you know the answer. It's money. It's contacts. It's everything that's wrong with this country.
Except for the influence of power and money, how can we explain the tens of thousands of homeless men and women and children in our streets, or doubled up in hallways for lack of Federal housing assistance when billions -- and I mean billions -- go to subsidize mortgages for millionaires.
It's not right and we've got to do something about it.
Except for the influence of power and money, how do you explain billions that go for nuclear submarines with nonexistent missions while desperate cries from our cities then go unheeded. Are our mayors wrong or do they just lack the special influence that gets things done in Washington.
You know, the billion dollars the cities got a few weeks ago is less than one day of additional borrowing to our national debt that we do every day of this year.
For many many years I believed that we could change politics through a series of changes, some small, some large, but all incremental within the framework of politics as we know it -- progressive appointments, more money for college scholarships, good environmental laws, urban assistance programs. Yet when I was Governor, I'm sorry to acknowledge, wages toward the end started to fall. Factory jobs started moving abroad. And the numbers of the poor began to grow. Ten years later, South Central Los Angeles exploded. How I tried to make that system work as Governor of California. . . .
But victory? It still eluded us. So we were counseled to raise even larger sums to overcome the opposition and the voter indifference. But in my heart, I knew, and I know now, that the problem was not the lack of money. There's never enough and there'll never be enough, to buy back the disappearing loyalty of the disillusioned. It's not there.
What we need -- what we needed then was something more basic. We had to break the growing and dangerous tie-in of economic and political power. We had to save our souls as Democrats, return to our roots, listen to our ancestors, and once again fight on the side of the people who pay the bills and fight the wars but never come to our receptions. Those are the people I want to fight for. I know you want to fight for. And we have to start showing that as we walk out of here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TUITION FEES (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); TAX LAW (65%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (65%); 

PERSON: TSONGAS, PAUL E; BROWN, JERRY (EDMUND G BROWN JR) JERRY BROWN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



500 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: In Step Toward Freer Trade, Mexico to Pay Oil Bonuses

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 15

 BODY:
In another step toward a North American free-trade agreement, Mexico has tentatively agreed to pay bonuses to United States and Canadian oil drillers for good performance, Mexican and American officials said today.
Mexico currently pays foreign oil companies only fixed fees for their work. The main basis for bonuses will be the speed with which work is completed, although whether a company strikes oil will also be included in the bonus formula, an official involved in the negotiations said. 
 The compromise, while small, is important because Mexico's energy sector has been one of the biggest obstacles to a trade agreement since negotiations began a year ago. Negotiators from the United States, Mexico and Canada are trying to resolve as many issues as possible before July 25, when top trade officials are scheduled to meet in an effort to finish the accord.
 
Ban on Foreign Production
 The Mexico Constitution, adopted in 1917 when American companies dominated the Mexican economy, specifically forbids foreign ownership or control of the nation's energy resources. The provision has been broadly applied to ban foreign companies from oil exploration, production and refining in Mexico.
Mexican oil production peaked in 1982, before declining slightly and then stagnating since 1986. American companies view Mexico as a potential market for oil services worth billions of dollars.
A Mexican official who insisted on anonymity said that while his country had agreed to performance incentives in the oil contracts, the precise formula for the bonuses had not been worked out. "This thing is not yet closed," he said.
El Financiero, a daily newspaper in Mexico City, first reported the compromise on Tuesday.
The United States, Canada and Mexico have also reached tentative deals in recent months to reduce controls on cross-border trucking and to prevent trade in contaminated food.
And trade negotiators are moving closer to agreement on reducing Mexico's limits on corn imports. The Mexican Government recently offered to gradually remove these restrictions in exchange for concessions on farm goods by the United States. Florida's sugar and citrus growers, long protected from imports, have strongly objected to the customs duty reductions sought by Mexico.
Corn is Mexico's staple crop, and the Mexican Government has been reluctant to lift import controls that now allow it to influence the retail price of corn and keep millions of peasants employed.
The Journal of Commerce first reported the Mexican offer today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); CANADA (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES; CANADA MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); CANADA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BONUSES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (73%); FARM LABOR (69%); CITRUS GROVES (68%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



501 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Trade and Credibility;
State Department Sees Progress On Talks That Negotiators Don't

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 15

 BODY:
Why was there such apparent division in the Bush Administration about the extent of progress on world trade talks at last week's economic summit meeting?
So wide was the gap between the upbeat assessment delivered by some State Department officials at Munich and the no-progress verdict handed down by senior American trade negotiators back in Washington that it was almost as though they weren't talking about the same subject. 
 To Michael Aho, an economist with the Council on Foreign Relations, there is a simple explanation for why Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d would put a positive gloss on the results and the United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills, would find them so inconsequential. "He didn't want to do anything to make it look as if he wasn't successful overseas," Mr. Aho said. "But for her, it made some sense to say: 'There wasn't much progress. The Europeans were at fault.' It's the blame game."
At issue is the six-year-old, 108-nation round of talks aimed at modernizing the rules governing more than $1 trillion in trade in farm goods, software, financial services and other areas. The talks are blocked because of a long-running dispute between the United States and the European Community over how drastically to cut subsidies to farmers.
While trade was by no means the only item on the agenda of the meeting of the Group of Seven leaders, the leaders felt an increasing urgency to wrap up the trade negotiations because they believed that an accord that reduced trade barriers would be a much-needed spur to growth around the world.
With economic growth sluggish from Kalamazoo to Kyoto, leaders of the leading industrial democracies scarcely wanted to admit that they had made scant progress on trade at Munich. That is one reason for the glowing on-scene reports from some of them, and from some of their top aides. With President Bush and many of the other leaders floundering in opinion polls back home, there were boasts not only about trade, but also about helping Russia and working to reduce the bloodshed in Sarajevo.
Some experts, and some Administration insiders, say that Mr. Baker and many European officials were deliberately trying to accentuate the positive at Munich, because, some experts say, the officials feared that negative news about the summit meeting could hurt financial markets, business confidence and growth around the world.
"It's appropriate at a summit to put a positive spin on things because that helps to create some political momentum," an Administration official said this week. "Imagine what would happen if they said, 'We can't agree on anything.' Then this whole trade thing would fall apart."
And on the American side, there were of course domestic political considerations. The White House has often talked about how important increasing trade is to growth, with Mr. Bush noting that exports have fueled 70 percent of the nation's economic growth over the last five years.
Mr. Baker had not only his reputation as deal maker at stake, but also the reputation of his boss and friend George Bush as world leader. So eager was he to serve both, some foreign policy experts suggest, that he got out ahead of the story, and so declaring "I'm of the view that we're much, much closer than we were five weeks ago" to agreement on farm subsidies.
Munich was certainly not the first summit meeting at which a positive spin was put on developments. When President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union left last year's London summit meeting without a penny in financial aid, Group of Seven leaders talked cheerfully instead about the flood of experts and other technical aid to Moscow. Back in Moscow, many Russians complained that they could not eat technical aid.
For Mrs. Hills, the clear-eyed, hard-nosed negotiator, the declarations of progress at Munich seemed to be as overoptimistic as the cheerful talk of London was to the Russians. "I'm tempted to say they're not affected," she said flatly of the trade talks.
One Administration official speaking for the White House said Mrs. Hills was talking more from a technical point of view than a political one in assessing Munich. To be sure, Mrs. Hills is a tough bargainer, and in playing down Munich's results, she could well be using a well-known negotiating tactic: putting the other side on the defensive.
Indeed, American officials say the Europeans had an incentive to exaggerate any progress to defuse the charges from dozens of countries that the European Community was being intransigent. "You would expect the Europeans to say that there was progress," said one senior American trade official. "They would want to put the best face on things when they are blocking the conclusion of the negotiations."
In the end, though, some trade experts say that those who saw real progress at Munich and those who saw no progress could both be correct. On one hand, there was progress in the attitude of the heads of state. On the other, there appeared to be little or no progress on details.
The Munich summit meeting appeared markedly different from the previous two summit sessions -- in London and Houston -- because for the first time all the leaders seemed to get serious about trade. When the leaders pledged in the Munich communique, as they did at the last two sessions, to complete the talks by the end of the year, many more people seemed to believe them this time around. More than ever before, the leaders appear ready to put some of their muscle behind getting an agreement soon.
Trade experts hope this means that when Mrs. Hills and Europe's trade negotiators next meet, they will feel some pressure from their heads of state to clinch a deal and not get bogged down with niggling details. Last year, however, the Group of Seven leaders promised to get personally involved to make sure a deal was reached, but they ultimately did little to push their trade negotiators to bridge their differences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (84%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (59%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (84%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (59%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SUMMIT CONFERENCES TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (60%); VERDICTS (57%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



502 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Posts 8% Higher Profit

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: FAIRFIELD, Conn., July 15

 BODY:
Spurred by growth in its nonindustrial units, the General Electric Company today reported an 8 percent increase in its second-quarter net income.
As a result, G.E.'s board said it would raise its quarterly dividend 7.3 percent to 59 cents a share from 55 cents. On an annualized basis, the dividend is expected to increase to $2.36 a share from $2.20 a share. 
 G.E.'s financial performance hit analysts' projections precisely. Earnings were $1.22 billion, or $1.42 a share, compared with $1.13 billion, or $1.30 a share a year earlier.
Revenue was up 4 percent, to $15.4 billion, from $14.8 billion in last year's second quarter.
The second-quarter dividend will be paid in September, the company said, and the board will discuss the 1993 dividend at its November meeting.
G.E. also said it would suspend its $10 billion stock buyback program at the $5 billion mark later this year. The company said, however, that it would continue to repurchase stock to fund employee programs.
The company said it might be able to use the cash that would have been spent on stock to exploit global opportunities. The electronics and services giant did not identify any particular sectors for acquisitions.
The second-quarter performance illustrates how important G.E.'s non-industrial businesses are to the company. Its financial services sector, the GE Capital Corporation, which includes Kidder, Peabody & Company as well as one of the nation's biggest credit operations, reported 24 percent growth in income.
Spurred by strong television ratings for the National Basketball Association's final games, NBC's operating profit increased sharply on flat revenue.
G.E.'s Power Systems group, which makes turbines and equipment sold to electric utilities, reported income and revenue gains. And its technical products business, which includes G.E.'s electronic medical systems, earned more because of productivity increases.
G.E. reported only flat earnings for its electrical appliances business, however, and lower income for its industrial products, aircraft engines and materials operations.
John F. Welch Jr., G.E.'s chairman, warned that the company saw a "fragile" global economy, even though domestic orders had improved. He said continued emphasis on productivity and improved cash generation would support continued growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (94%); GEC (LSE) (94%); GE (SWX) (94%); GE (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (64%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (94%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (64%); CONNECTICUT, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; STOCKS (CORPORATE); DIVIDENDS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); BASKETBALL (63%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (62%); 

PERSON: JACK WELCH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



503 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Income-Based School Busing Stirs Anger in Wisconsin

BYLINE: By WILLIAM CELIS 3d

 BODY:
Four of nine members of the LaCrosse, Wis., School Board were defeated in a recall election Tuesday and two more were forced into runoff elections, as residents expressed anger over a plan to bus students based on family income.
The plan, believed to be the first of its kind in the nation, was designed to ease overcrowding in the district's 11 elementary schools and to break up large blocks of poor children who had been concentrated in two of the schools. Poor children are defined by the district as those receiving free lunches under the Federal school-lunch program. 
 By busing both affluent and poor students, the district hoped to ease the burden on teachers at schools with higher numbers of poor children, who often require more attention; enhance the education of poor children, and expose all children to a greater cross-section of classmates.
But this city of 51,000 has had virtually no busing before now, and voters, expressing their preference for neighborhood schools, rejected the school board's arguments. Since the busing plan has already been approved for a September start, it is not clear how the plan will change.
 
'Totally Frustrated'
 "The public was totally frustrated with a school board that was not listening to what the public wanted for its children," said Jay Hoeschler, a real estate developer and a member of Recall Alliance, a group that fielded six of the eight candidates who opposed incumbents. "They brought forced busing to a community that has no need for forced busing."
The four defeated incumbents lost by at least 1,000 votes each in an election in which 12,000 people, or 33 percent of the registered voters, cast ballots. The two others who had supported the busing plan trailed their challengers in three-way races and will meet Aug. 11 in runoffs.
The other three board members were not affected by the recall because they were elected in April, and under Wisconsin law an elected official cannot be subjected to a recall vote until after serving one year in office. Those three opposed the busing plan, and were elected on that platform.
"It was a well-orchestrated backlash on the busing plan," said Kenneth G. French, one of the four defeated board members. "The group that led the recall did a good selling job to a number of people."
 
Was Money an Issue?
 Mr. Hoeschler and other opponents of the plan said the recall vote also reflected demands from voters for more fiscal accountability. He asserted that the school district spent too much on two new elementary schools opening this fall to ease overcrowding in the system, whose 7,772 students include 3,500 of elementary school age.
John D. Parkyn, the chairman of the school board, said his defeat and those of his fellow board members also reflected confusion among voters over whether the vote was a referendum on school spending or on busing.
But the challengers said busing was the main issue. "Busing children on the basis of their parents' income at a time when busing programs are under criticism across the nation was very much the catalyst in the recall election," said Douglas Farmer, a bank executive who unseated Mr. French.
"Busing was behind the success of the candidates 100 percent," added Susan Knight, who is in a runoff with an incumbent, Roger Winter.
 
Plenty of Signatures
 Recall Alliance was required to collect at least 7,500 signatures for each of the six board members it wanted to recall. It began collecting in April and got 9,500 to 10,500 for each candidate. Although the board got an injunction against the recall from a state court, the group appealed, and a higher court ruled last Thursday that the election could be held.
Mr. Parkyn said he had voted for the busing plan in January "without hesitation" and would do so again. "We had to diversify our schools so that all our children could move ahead," said Mr. Parkyn, a nuclear engineer.
The Superintendent of Schools, Richard A. Swantz, said he plans to meet with the four new members Wednesday, when they take office, to determine what changes they want to make. A rollback of the plan is all but certain, some school officials and ousted board members said. But Mr. Swantz warned that if the new members tinker too much they could well set off another round of agitation in the community, which Mr. Swantz said had generally come to accept the plan despite the recall election.
 
Wide Disparities
 Under the plan conceived by elementary school teachers and principals, a third of the district's 3,500 elementary school students would have been bused, most for the first time. The plan was designed to disperse concentrations of poor students in two schools that amounted to 70 percent or more as against 3 percent in more affluent schools.
Reconfigured boundaries produced a mix in which no school had more than 50 percent of its students who qualified for free lunch. Before the redrawing, 71 percent of the pupils at Hamilton Elementary qualified for free lunch. In more affluent schools, like State Road Elementary, the percentage of poor students grew to about 20 percent from 3 percent, the district said.
Many of the poorer students are Hmong immigrants who have flocked to LaCrosse in the past 10 years. Of the 7,772 students enrolled in the 1991-92 school year, 84.9 percent were white; 11.7 percent were Asian, with most of that Hmong; 1.5 percent were American Indians; 1.4 percent were black, and 0.5 percent from other backgrounds. Administrators say the numbers of Hmong residents have forced the district to spend more to teach as a second language.
Busing experts and education policy makers who followed the LaCrosse plan said the district had embarked on a bold but risky move to address concentrations of poverty. But they maintained that the district had not explored other options to disperse students based on socio-economic factors. Magnet schools, they added, provide a more palatable way to encourage parents to participate in a busing plan.
Despite the election outcome, some parents still supported the plan and said leaders of the citizens' group had wrought havoc with children's lives.
"I like the fact that the schools were trying to balance the schools," said Grace Dahl, whose two sons would have been affected by the busing plan. "School is one place that should be a stable place for kids to go."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the affluent State Road Elementary school, classes like this kindergarten, shown last January when the La Crosse, Wis., school board voted for busing, would see a 17 percent rise in students who receive government-sponsored free lunches. Opposition to the plan, which proposed transporting children from all income brackets, has resulted in a recall vote of four board of education members. (Steve Woit for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RECALL ALLIANCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RECALL ALLIANCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LACROSSE (WIS) UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SCHOOL BUSING; ELECTIONS; INCOME ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); FAMILY (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); REAL ESTATE (53%); 

PERSON: CELIS, WILLIAM 3D RICHARD A SWANTZ (68%); JOHN D PARKYN (65%); KENNETH G FRENCH (56%); JAY HOESCHLER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



504 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: New Talks Set in Pittsburgh Newspaper Strike

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH, July 15

 BODY:
Six unions whose members were laid off after a strike against a company that publishes two Pittsburgh newspapers decided today to meet to discuss the company's plan to resume operations. The newspapers have not published since May.
The company, The Pittsburgh Press Company, said on Tuesday that it intended to resume publication of one or both papers, possibly within 10 days, with or without an agreement with the striking union, Local 211 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. 
 On Tuesday, as the strike by drivers and other teamsters members entered its ninth week, the company said it had discussed its plans with the teamsters local and with six other unions that represent newspaper employees, most of whom were laid off after the strike. These unions represent production and advertising employees.
The company's vice president and general manager, Jimmy E. Manis, said the strike had had a "detrimental effect" not only on the health of the newspapers but on the city's economy.
"We firmly believe that the time has come to put the interests of this community in the forefront," he said.
A spokesman for the teamsters declined to comment on the company's announcement except to say that it appeared to rule out "an amicable solution."
Mr. Manis's announcement may mean that only The Pittsburgh Press, which is owned and published by the company, will resume publication.
 
Unions 'Invited' to Return
 After his statement on Tuesday, executives of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, which is published by the company under a joint operating agreement, said there was no accord to resume publishing that paper. The Post-Gazette is owned by the P G Publishing Company.
Mr. Manis did not say how his company planned to distribute papers without the striking drivers, but he said the unions had been invited back to work.
"We've invited them to discuss, or negotiate, how to come back," he said.
The announcement also left open questions about whether editorial and other union employees that have not been on strike might be engulfed in the labor turmoil, blocking the company's plan to resume publication.
Neither newspaper has appeared since May 17, when truck drivers from Local 211 walked off the job over a stalemate in negotiations concerning the company's staffing plans.
The company is seeking to revamp its newspaper distribution system. The effect of adopting the new system would be to eliminate 450 of the 605 jobs now held by teamsters members.
A spokesman for the striking union, Joseph Pass, said on Tuesday: "It sends a signal that they're not looking for an amicable solution. It sends a signal that they want a confrontation."
But Mr. Pass said he would not comment on whether the union would try to prevent the distribution of the papers or whether union members would picket the building in which both newspapers are housed. He said it was not clear how the union would respond if the company resumed distribution operations. "We'll cross that bridge when we come to it," he said.
The Press has retained its entire editorial staff, which is producing a mail publication called The Allegheny Bulletin. The Post-Gazette has retained a skeleton crew of reporters and editors and is experimenting with fax transmissions and a radio network.
In addressing his staff on Tuesday, the editor of The Post-Gazette, John G. Craig Jr., quoted a statement by the newspaper's publishers saying that the paper had no agreement with the Press Company to resume publication.
In a cryptically worded statement, William Block Jr. and John Robinson Block, the paper's publishers, said they supported any effort by the Press Company to reduce costs of delivering papers. But they added that no agreement had been reached and that any such agreement would "have to serve the best interests of the newspaper."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PITTSBURGH PRESS CO; PITTSBURGH PRESS CO; PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE PITTSBURGH PRESS CO (84%); PG PUBLISHING CO (66%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PRESS CO; PITTSBURGH PRESS CO; PITTSBURGH POST-GAZETTE INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PITTSBURGH (PA) UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; STRIKES; NEWSPAPERS; LAYOFFS (LABOR) LAYOFFS (90%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); PUBLISHING TRADE (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



505 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: Falling Costs Seen as Draw To Employers

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
Amid ample evidence that the New York metropolitan area remains mired in recession, a report yesterday by the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York said that declining commercial rents and a slowdown in wage increases were making the region more attractive to business.
Office rents across the region have plummeted by as much as 40 percent since the late 1980's, the study said. And while wages in the New York area remain far higher than elsewhere in the nation, the study found that the wage differences in some segments of the economy, including the retail-trade and the service industries, had begun to narrow. 
 "An extraordinary correction is under way," said Rae D. Rosen, the bank's economist and the author of the report. "New York is becoming a comparatively cheaper location for business."
 
A Battered Economy
 The study follows a series of economic setbacks for New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, which are still reeling under a recession that has been longer and deeper than any since World War II.
Personal bankruptcies and business failures have soared recently. After a sharp increase in June, unemployment in the region is at its highest level in eight years, and consumer prices for utilities, health care, residential rents, taxes and other essentials have been rising faster than elsewhere in the nation.
These indicators have left some economic analysts suggesting that hard times still lie ahead.
But by focusing on those costs that have the most direct bearing on business -- wages and commercial rent -- the bank said it had uncovered strong evidence that the groundwork had been laid for recovery in the metropolitan region.
"What this tells us is that we are not going downhill forever," said Ms. Rosen. "The forces of supply and demand are are work, and the turning point is coming."
The Federal Home Loan Bank of New York is one of 12 federally chartered lending institutions across the nation that provide money to other banks and thrift institutions for mortgage lending. Because of its huge stake in the real estate market, the bank has traditionally engaged in detailed analysis of the regional economy.
The report said commercial rents, "the bedrock issue" for many businesses, had plummeted. Because vast amounts of new office space were completed just as the recession began and still lack tenants, it has become common to offer "concessions, decorating allowances, first-year free terms and other adjustments" to tenants, the report said.
The study is bolstered by recent reports by the real-estate industry reflecting a decline in rents on new leases for offices. Cushman & Wakefield, the region's largest commercial brokerage, said asking prices had declined 10 percent since 1988.
But the bank's report said that prices reflected in rent surveys "overstate the cost of most new leases" and that the price of office space has dropped by over 30 percent on many new leases and in some cases by as much as 40 percent.
"Firms that might have decided to move away have now decided to stay," Ms. Rosen said. "Those that stay will eventually begin hiring again."
Data compiled by the bank on wages show that labor costs in the New York region, which have for decades exceeded those in other cities and states, grew at a torrid rate in the 1980's, forcing employers to pay more than their competitors elsewhere in the nation.
The study said that the gap remains broad and continues to expand in some the region's most prominent, highest-paying industry. Banks, Wall Street investment houses, insurance companies and real estate concerns, all of which have cut deeply into their staffing, are nonetheless dispersing average paychecks more than 50 percent higher in the New York area than elsewhere, it said.
Overall, wages in New York State, which were 6 percent above the national average in 1980, had climbed to 20 percent above the national average in 1991, the report said.
 
A Narrowing Gap
 But the report also found that the gap had narrowed in retail sales since 1989, with merchants paying their employees in the New York area slightly less than 110 percent of the national average. In the service industries, including health-care, law and engineering companies, and a host of companies that provide business services, it said the difference between wages in the New York area and the nation stabilized last year.
Wages paid by the region's government agencies, public utilities and transportation companies have also been rising at slightly less than, or equal to, the national average, the report said.
Ms. Rosen said the wage increases have been held down by a growing pool of experienced workers who are either out of jobs or willing to accept smaller pay hikes. "New York will offer increasingly competitively priced construction, legal, financial, retail and service talent in the coming recovery period," the report said.
Business people said lower costs, or even a reduced rate of increase, were bound to encourage companies to stay in the region, and might help the region attract others. Among them was Ronald K. Shelp, the president of the New York Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which respresents 1,500 businesses.
"Every interview and every survey shows that business costs are the most important issues," he said.
"Anything that lowers or stabilizes costs will help sell New York," he added.
 
Obstacles Remain
 To be sure, not all analysts are as upbeat about the future of the New York metropolitan area. In a report on Monday, Elizabeth Holtzman, the New York City Comptroller, said rising consumer prices in the city may stand in the way of economic recovery. Since the end of 1989, consumer prices in the city have risen 15.9 percent, compared to an increase of 13.9 percent elsewhere in the nation.
"The city might not benefit from a possible national recovery because of the continuing rise in local inflation," she said.
But the bank's report said businesses are bound to respond to the easing pace of price increases, at least in commercial rents and wages, by making new commitments to the region.
A slow upturn "appears likely to develop as small retail establishments, financial firms and service-oriented firms discover they can afford to be in New York," she said, adding that the region's recovery was likely to begin in 1993. "The break-even point is dropping."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (95%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (95%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (52%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (52%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: HOME LOAN BANK OF NEW YORK FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK OF NEW YORK (95%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (52%); NEW YORK (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOME LOAN BANK OF NEW YORK NEW YORK (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); CITIES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (87%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); TRENDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); PERSONAL DEBT (67%); WORLD WAR II (52%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J RAE D ROSEN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



506 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Issues Continue to Rise

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities moved higher again yesterday and interest rates, including long-term bond yields, moved lower.
Traders said that after several days of selling failed to push prices appreciably lower, investors were returning to the Treasury market. 
"There was a lot of profit taking on Friday and more on Monday and Tuesday," one government securities trader said. "Those people are all out of the way, and bids are coming in from all sorts of accounts."
Once again, much of the demand centered on shorter-term notes and bills. But as the spread between short-term and long-term issues continued to widen, some investors were beginning to buy bonds.
"Over the last couple of days retail customers have been looking to buy short-term securities when their prices fell," said Jay Goldinger, a principal in Capital Insight, a bond brokerage firm in Beverly Hills, Calif.
"But the short end hasn't dipped, so now investors are starting to reach for yield out the curve because they are frustrated by the strength in the short end."
In addition, analysts said bond prices were bolstered by rumors from Chicago that Argentina would need to purchase bonds in the open market as part of its debt refinancing plan. They added that economic reports this week have been favorable for the bond market.
"Most of the reports have either been in line with expectations or a bit better," said William V. Sullivan Jr., a senior vice president at Dean Witter Reynolds. "The weight of that evidence convinced some portfolio managers that it was time to extend positions further out the yield curve."
The three-tenths of a percent drop in industrial production reported for June by the Federal Reserve yesterday was largely in line with market expectations. Analysts had been expecting a decline after the Labor Department released extremely weak employment numbers earlier this month.
In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 29 1/2-year bonds of 2021 were offered late yesterday at a price of 104 14/32, up 26/32, to yield 7.61 percent, compared with 7.68 percent late Tuesday.
Among outstanding Treasury note issues, the 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 104 15/32, up 21/32, to yield 6.86 percent. And the 5 percent two-year notes were offered at 101 16/32, up 5/32, to yield 4.19 percent.
Rates on short-term Treasury bills continued to fall, as expectations grew that continued weakness in the economy will force the Federal Reserve Board to cut short-term interest rates yet again.
Three-month bills were offered late yesterday at a discount rate of 3.16 percent, down three basis points, or three one-hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by six basis points, to a late offered rate of 3.20 percent. And one-year bill rates fell by nine basis points, to a late rate of 3.31 percent.
The rally in the Government market came on a day when corporate bond issuance picked up after a couple of slack sessions.
Among the issuers yesterday were the Matsushita Electrical Industrial Company, which sold $1 billion worth of Eurobonds in London, and in New York the Long Island Lighting Company, which priced more than $800 million worth of debt securities.
In addition to those offerings, Bloomberg Business News reported that Goldman Sachs Group LP, parent company of Goldman, Sachs & Co., priced $400 million worth of 10-year noncallable notes.
The debt offering is highly unusual for Goldman, Wall Street's last remaining private partnership.
The 7.80 percent notes were priced at $99.80, to yield 7.829 percent, 93 basis points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The securities were sold as a private placement because the Goldman is not registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a public company.
Demand for the issue was so strong that it was increased in size from $250 million.
The securities are rated A-1 by Moody's Investors Service and A+ by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" shows the average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates from April-July, 1992. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BOND MARKETS (93%); BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); YIELD CURVE (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); DEBT FINANCING (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



507 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Rise in Sales-Tax Revenue Eases Suffolk Deficit and Layoff Plans

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, L.I., July 15

 BODY:
A welcome increase in sales-tax revenues has eased Suffolk County's financial crisis and enabled officials to reconsider plans to borrow money, cut wages and lay off county employees.
After a year and a half of declining sales-tax revenues, collections in the county this year are up about 3.5 percent from the same period in 1991, with all of the gains coming in the second quarter. 
 "And if the trend holds, we may have enough to wipe out the 1992 deficit," said James Spero, deputy director of the County Legislature's Office of Budget Review. Earlier this year, budget analysts predicted a sales-tax shortfall of $25 million. That estimate has now been reduced to $14 million, about equal to the county's 1992 budget deficit.
"We couldn't be more pleased," said Tim Ryan, a spokesman for County Executive Robert J. Gaffney. "This is extremely encouraging." Citing an increase in tourism during the second quarter as a possible factor in the brighter revenue picture, he added, "We hope it's a trend that will hold."
 
Albany Cuts Crisis Aid
 Only last week Mr. Gaffney announced that the deficit in the county's $1.3 billion budget had been reduced from $91 million to $47 million. Most of that gap -- $36 million -- was left over from 1991; the remaining $11 million was for this year. Mr. Gaffney said the reduction in the deficit resulted from cost-cutting measures, faster payments from the state for social services and lower-than-expected pension costs.
Because of Suffolk's improving finances, negotiators in Albany today reduced the county's request for deficit borrowing power from $91 million to $71 million, according to Michael D. O'Donohoe, a Conservative and a member of the county's bipartisan legislative coalition. He said the bailout may still be necessary if the deficit ballooned again.
"But if the sales tax revenues continue to come in, we may balance this year's budget and use general-obligation bonds to pay off last year's deficit without asking for any help from Albany," he said.
Mr. Spero warned, meanwhile, that the county could be hit later this year by a sharp drop in property-tax revenues. He recalled that last year the county came up $100 million short because of nonpayment of taxes. "This left us with a real cash shortage," he said. "And there are no guarantees there won't be another shortfall this year."
All property taxes in Suffolk are collected at the town level, Mr. Spero said, then distributed to school districts, library districts, the towns themselves and finally the county, in that order. "The county is at the end of the line, and if the collections come up short, we end up holding the empty bag," he said.
He said the school districts get most of the property taxes collected by the towns, about 70 percent, while the county gets about 20 percent. Property taxes make up only 14 percent of the county's general-fund revenues, Mr. Spero said, while sales-tax receipts, which are collected by the state, contribute nearly 42 percent. State and Federal aid make up 30 percent, with the remaining 14 percent coming from various fees.
He said that Suffolk outperformed both the state and Nassau County in the second quarter. Sales-tax receipts for the state were up 1.3 percent, while Nassau's were flat.
Six weeks ago, the prospect of a $91 million deficit led Mr. Gaffney to propose an across-the-board 10 percent pay cut for county workers and the layoff of 1,300 employees, including 300 police officers. That threat has subsided, as has the threat of a property-tax increase, thanks to the higher sales-tax revenues. "Things are looking rosier," Mr. O'Donohoe said.
Mr. Gaffney and the bipartisan county legislative coalition are now discussing the possibility of dropping the layoff plan, reducing the pay cut to 5 percent and limiting it to 400 nonunion employees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SALES TAX; GOVERNMENT BONDS; WAGES AND SALARIES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS (LABOR) TAXES & TAXATION (94%); COUNTIES (92%); SALES TAX (92%); BUDGETS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TRENDS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LIBRARIES (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); BONDS (65%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T TIM RYAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



508 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Money Funds' Yields Down, Hurt by the Fed's Rate Cut

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Money market fund yields dropped in the latest week, according to IBC/ Donoghue's Money Fund Report. Analysts said the Federal Reserve's cut in short-term interest rates two weeks ago continued to put pressure on fund yields.
Tax-exempt money funds suffered another sharp drop in yields. A number of investors who suddenly redeemed their municipal-bond holdings because of lower interest rates rushed to park that fresh cash in money-market funds. This forced yields down as the supply of short-term tax-exempt paper tightened. 
 In taxable funds, yields are down more as a direct result of the recent Fed easing on other short-term investments like Treasury bills, Federal funds and commercial paper.
 
'Out There on the Yield Curve'
 The seven-day compounded average yield for a tax-exempt fund fell 16 basis points, to 2.09 percent, while the simple yield eased 17 basis points, to 2.06 percent. Over the course of 30 days the compounded and simple average yields each fell 12 basis basis points, to 2.34 percent and 2.31 percent, respectively. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Donoghue's said assets of tax-exempt money funds rose by $4.4 billion, to a total of $97.3 billion. The average number of days left to maturity of tax-exempt securities held in fund portfolios fell 1, to 63, which analysts still called a long stretch. "That the portfolio managers are out there on the yield curve for this long a period of time also indicates that they are not fearful of interest rates suddenly going back up and taking them for a loss," said Walter S. Frank, Donoghue's chief economist.
For investors in the 28 percent tax bracket, the taxable equivalent of the current seven-day tax-free yield is 2.9 percent, while the equivalent for those investors in the 31 percent tax bracket is 3.02 percent.
In its weekly survey of tax-exempt funds with assets greater than $100 million, Donoghue's said the Strong Municipal Money Market funds, distributed by Strong/Corneliuson in Milwaukee, gave the best return for the fourth straight week, at 2.99 percent.
Yields in taxable money-market funds fell again, as assets rose $4.5 billion, to a total of $493.3 billion. Donoghue's analysts said it was right in line with how the gain was broken down. Institutional assets accounted for all the gain as they moved into money-market funds from other investments to the tune of $5.3 billion, for a total of $172.5 billion.
 
Retail Assets Decline
 On the other hand, the public pulled out $800 million from the so-called retail money-fund assets to seek higher yields elsewhere, perhaps in bond funds, analysts said. Retail assets thus fell to a total of $320.8 billion.
The average seven-day compounded yield for taxable money market funds was 3.29 percent, down 12 basis points, while the simple yield fell 11 basis points, to 3.24 percent. Over a 30-day period the compounded average yield is down 5 basis points, to 3.42 percent, and the simple is down 4 basis points, to 3.37 percent.
Analysts said the average days to maturity of securities in portfolios rose one day, to 63.
Olde Premium Plus Money Market Series, distributed by the Olde Discount Corporation in Detroit, again turned in the best yield for the week, at 4.12 percent, down 15 basis points from a week ago. The fund absorbs expenses and reflects it by offering a higher yield.
For the purpose of comparison, the average yield of a bank money-market account, the prime competitor of money funds, dropped 6 basis points, to 3.18 percent.


GRAPHIC: Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on July 15, 1992 by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.
 

	Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	New York	3.04	3.27	Los Angeles	3.23	3.43	Chicago	3.19	3.52	San Francisco	3.10	3.35	Philadelphia	3.28	3.40	Detroit	3.48	3.48	Boston	3.15	3.44	Houston	3.13	3.51	Dallas	2.99	3.51	Washington	3.19	3.50	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	3.18	3.44	
Table: "Regional Bank Rates"
 *Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408)
 
Graphs: "Consumer Money Rates" shows Donoghue's Money Fund seven-day compounded average taxable yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts from April-July 1992. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor and IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report); "Maturities" shows the average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios from July '91-July '92. (Source: Donoghue's Money Fund Report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STRONG MUNICIPAL MONEY MARKET (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; MONEY MARKET FUNDS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (95%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (90%); YIELD CURVE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT CLARE SHORT (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



509 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Ogilvy Gets Jaguar Account In Chief's First Big Victory

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FOR the fourth time in less than a year, a large automotive marketer has dismissed its longtime agency after a competitive, closely watched review.
In March, Jaguar Cars Inc. announced that its estimated $15 million account, at Geer, DuBois Inc. in New York since 1986, would be reassessed. And yesterday, Jaguar Cars, the Mahwah, N.J., American subsidiary of the troubled British luxury-car maker, said it would move the account, effectively immediately, to Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide in New York. 
 The decision was not surprising. For one thing, in the other three recent auto reviews -- Subaru of America, American Isuzu Motors and Mercedes-Benz of North America -- the incumbent shops lost. For another, Ogilvy has a lengthy, friendly relationship in this country and overseas with the Ford Motor Company, which paid $2.5 billion to acquire Jaguar Ltd. in 1989.
"A major change has taken place because we've been purchased by Ford," said Michael Dale, president of Jaguar Cars, "giving us dramatically different potential for Jaguar in the future.
"We needed a marketing partner," he added, "not just an advertising agency, to help us with all the things we need to grow into."
While Ogilvy "was picked because of its abilities" in areas like direct marketing and dealer relations, Mr. Dale continued, "I would be stupid not to say the fact it is a Ford agency would be of great advantage to us."
And it did not hurt Ogilvy that Charlotte Beers, its chairwoman and chief executive, owns two Jaguars -- one red, one green -- and was directly involved in Ogilvy's efforts to land the account.
"In some ways, it was my first show-and-tell," said Ms. Beers, who joined Ogilvy in April as the giant agency sought to stem a string of big account losses that by one estimate exceeded $70 million from prestigious clients like American Express and Campbell Soup.
Jaguar Cars is Ogilvy's first big gain since Ms. Beers's arrival. Though "I don't think we won because I own a Jag," she added, she expressed enormous satisfaction with the review's outcome, reading the headline on a staff memo: "Guess who's parking at Ogilvy?"
What was surprising about the decision was its timing. It came two weeks before the six finalists in the review were to present their strategic recommendations. (Besides Geer, DuBois and Ogilvy, the finalists were Carmichael Lynch in Minneapolis and three other New York shops: Margeotes Fertitta & Weiss, McCaffrey & McCall and Weiss, Whitten, Carroll, Stagliano.)
Ms. Beers said that Jaguar Cars had "canceled the review" because executives there were impressed with Ogilvy's "elite, highly intensive team" as well as the agency's resources and came to this conclusion: "If we're persuaded this could be a team that would be a true partner, why go anywhere else?"
Neal Gilliatt, the consultant who advised Jaguar Cars on the review, said the decision to cut it short was also attributable to the impending arrival of the 1993 model year.
In the course of two meetings held with each of the six agencies, he added, "I think we had an opportunity to look pretty carefully at the people, and their abilities and their way of thinking, without going into a final strategic presentation."
"It was felt, given the pressures, that Jaguar obviously had to get on with it," Mr. Gilliatt continued.
Among the pressures confronting Jaguar Ltd. are fierce competition in its high-priced segment of the auto market, a sales slump, a sluggish global economy and large losses. In the United States, Jaguar Cars sold 4,809 units in the first six months of this year, up 10.8 percent from the comparable period a year ago, a gain a spokeswoman attributed to a new leasing program called "Super Lease" that sent sales soaring in May and June.
The account loss is another blow for Geer, DuBois, which recently lost about $30 million of its total $120 million in billings even before the departure of Jaguar Cars, its second-largest client after the Paddington Corporation.
"It's a terrific marque," Stephen G. Bowen Jr., the agency's president and chief executive, said of Jaguar, "and I would've given my left arm if we'd really had a chance to keep it."
Since the loss was "not unexpected," he added, Geer, DuBois had already laid off about a dozen employees, reducing its staff to 75, and consolidated to two floors from four at its office at 114 Fifth Avenue in Manhattan.
"I'm giving us a year to replace Jaguar," he continued, "and I think we can do that." One decision the agency was glad to hear was Paddington's verdict in a creative shoot-out over the Stubbs rum account, with an estimated $3 million to $5 million in billings. Geer, DuBois retained it in a competition that also included three other New York shops: Ayer Inc., Grace & Rothschild and McCann-Erickson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); 7202 (TSE) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS423120 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (70%); NAICS423110 AUTOMOBILE & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (70%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (51%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: JAGUAR CARS INC; OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE JAGUAR CARS INC (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (91%); MERCEDES-BENZ USA INC (70%); ISUZU MOTORS LTD (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAGUAR CARS INC; OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (51%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNT CHANGES ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART CHARLOTTE BEERS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



510 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
S.&P. Stuns Bond Market By Cut in California Rating

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's Corporation stunned the municipal bond market yesterday by announcing that it had lowered its ratings on debt securities issued by the State of California by two notches, to A+ from AA.
S.& P. said the downgrade, which affects about $13 billion of debt outstanding, reflected the state's continued weak financial position, "with little likelihood of improvement in the near future." 
 The ratings agency also criticized the state's "unprecedented and wide-scale" use of registered warrants, a kind of i.o.u., last used in California in the Depresssion, to meet its normal and recurring payment obligations.
At the end of its 1992 fiscal year, California had a budget deficit of some $3.8 billion. Estimates of the amount of red ink that might flow in the current 1993 fiscal year vary, but reach as high as $8 billion.
 
Impasse on Solution
 At present, Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, and the California Legislature are at an impasse over how to redress the deficit.
At a news conference in Sacramento yesterday, State Treasurer Kathleen Brown, a Democrat, called on the Governor to reconvene meetings with the Legislature as soon as possible.
"We are in political paralysis, and California is in a ratings free fall," Mrs. Brown said.
As recently as last December, California credit was AAA-rated. With yesterday's downgrade, it is one of the four lowest-rated states in the country.
Standard & Poor's lowered its ratings on California debt securities to AA from AAA on Dec. 13, 1991.
On April 28, as the state's economy worsened and the deficit swelled, the ratings agency placed California on its credit watch.
Because of the state's deteriorating financial position, municipal bond market participants had been expecting a ratings downgrade. But the magnitude of the drop came as a real surprise.
 
No Flood of Selling
 "A lot of people were suspecting half a jump rather than a full jump," said Peck Ferrin, a vice president and manager of the municipal bond department at the Bank of America in San Francisco.
Despite the surprise, Mr. Ferrin and other market participants who trade California debt issues said the downgrade had not caused a flood of sell orders.
"There was a lot of selling in state credits over the last couple of days in anticipation of a one-grade ratings decline," one trader in Los Angeles said. "But right now people are pretty much just scratching their heads."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (94%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS BONDS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GOVERNORS (58%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N PETE BARTON WILSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



511 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Output Off; Inventories Up

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
Manufacturing lost steam in June and inventories are piling up again, signs that feeble consumer and business buying is beginning to affect the nation's factories, mines and utilities.
"There is no acceleration in the economy's growth," said Allen Sinai, president of the Boston Company. "The rebound in production has faded." 
 Industrial production fell three-tenths of 1 percent in June, the Federal Reserve reported, and factory utilization slipped to 78.5 percent, its lowest level in three months, and down from 78.9 percent in May. Output growth in May was also revised down, from six-tenths of 1 percent to five-tenths of 1 percent.
In the meantime, the Department of Commerce reported, business inventories -- stocks of finished goods, work in progress and raw materials -- edged up one-tenth of 1 percent in May, the fourth straight increase.
Yesterday's reports suggest that the economy will do no more than muddle through the summer.
"You've had pretty weak sales and an inventory buildup," said Alan C. Lerner, a managing director of Bankers Trust. "These cycles usually take a while to work through."
Mr. Lerner expects the gross domestic product to slog along at a 1.5 percent annual rate in the third quarter -- about the same as in the second quarter and far too slowly to shave the 7.8 percent jobless rate.
 
Industrial Output
 The dip in industrial production came as no surprise. Earlier this month, the purchasing managers' index signaled a sharp slowdown in the manufacturing expansion, and the Department of Labor reported a loss of 58,000 factory jobs.
The two-day rail strike was responsible for a steep drop in coal output. But production of most other goods, including cars and consumer goods, also slipped.
The cutback in car production was unexpected and analysts do not think it will continue. Inventories are down to 55 days or so and car sales have been running at an annual rate of 6.5 million models for six weeks, well ahead of June's 6.1 million production rate.
"The auto industry had some pretty fancy production plans, and I'm not sure that demand warrants all that much more production," Mr. Lerner said. "But it warrants some."
 
Inventories
 The rise in inventories was the fourth monthly increase in a row, while business sales declined by two-tenths of 1 percent. A small decline in store inventories and flat wholesale stocks was offset by an increase in stocks of finished goods and materials in factories. The inventory gain in April was revised up to three-tenths of 1 percent from one-tenth of 1 percent.
This gradual accumulation of inventories, Mr. Sinai said, is likely to account for nearly all of the meager rise in G.D.P. in the quarter that just ended. "Final sales were flat," he said, referring to exports, consumer spending and business outlays on new plant and equipment.
More important, the ratio of inventory to sales, which had been hovering comfortably around 1.49, has suddenly increased to 1.52. Given that executives have repeatedly made it clear that they are determined to keep inventories to a minimum, this unwelcome development increases the likelihood that production will stay subdued.
"I think we'll see an uneven pattern, though not a string of negatives," Mr. Sinai said.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Industrial Production" shows the index of industrial production from Jan. '91-June '92. (Source: Commerce Department); "Capacity Utilization" shows the total output as a percentage of capacity from Jan. '91-June '92. (Source: Federal Reserve Board); "Inventory-Sales Ratio" shows the total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, from Dec. '90-May '92. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BOSTON CO INC (72%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); MINING OUTPUT (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); STRIKES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); RETAIL SALES (72%); COAL MINING (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (64%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA ALAN C LERNER (78%); ALLEN SINAI (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



512 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls as Fears Rise On German Bank Meeting

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar declined against most major foreign currencies yesterday in trading dominated by speculation about a meeting of Germany's central bank. Gold prices rose.
On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery gained $2.90, to $354 a troy ounce. A late bid at the Republic National Bank of New York quoted gold at $353.15 a troy ounce, up $2.55. 
 For a fourth straight day, traders seemed obsessed by today's scheduled meeting of Germany's Bundesbank central council. The mark continued to rise against the dollar amid predictions the Germans would raise interest rates, which would make the mark more valuable.
"There is a great deal of debate if they will raise rates and which rates they will raise," said John McCarthy, chief currency dealer for the New York branch of Abn-Amro Bank, a major Netherlands bank. "As a consequence, the mark was very strong today."
In late European trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.4770 German marks, down from 1.4890 on Tuesday. At the close in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.4810 marks, down from 1.4845 marks the day before.
Mr. McCarthy said the latest economic reports on industrial production and business inventories had little effect on the dollar. The Government reported industrial production dropped three-tenths of 1 percent in June, while inventories gained one-tenth of 1 percent last month.
Currency analysts and economists said the figures were within expecations and showed continued weakness in the nation's economy, which bodes ill for the dollar.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 125.32 yen, up 0.37 yen from Tuesday's close. Later in London, the dollar was quoted at 125.05 yen. At the close in New York, the dollar fetched 125.10 yen, the same as late Tuesday's level.
In London, the British pound was quoted at $1.9260, up from $1.9140 late Tuesday. The pound quoted at $1.9225 at the close in New York, more expensive than $1.9200 late Tuesday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included 1.3395 Swiss francs, down from 1.3425; 5.0050 French francs, down from 5.0120; 1,128 Italian lire, up from 1,125, and 1.19335 Canadian dollars, up from 1.19275.
Gold traded in London late yesterday at $351.85 an ounce, up from $350.75 bid an ounce late Tuesday. In Zurich, the bid price was $351.10, up from $348.40 late Tuesday. In Hong Kong, gold rose 42 cents to close at a bid of $351.18.
Silver prices also rose. Silver traded in London at a bid price of $3.95 a troy ounce, up from Tuesday's $3.94. On the New York Comex, silver for current delivery was quoted at $3.940 a troy ounce, up from $3.938 a troy ounce the day before.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (84%); HSB (PAR) (84%); HBC (NYSE) (84%); 0005 (HKSE) (84%); ABO (ASX) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (72%); NETHERLANDS (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (84%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (72%); NETHERLANDS (71%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); ZURICH (74%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (94%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); INVENTORIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); 

PERSON: JOHN MCCARTHY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



513 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Leaner Times, Meaner Times

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
HARD times could put Bill Clinton in the White House. But they could bury his Administration, much as they threaten George Bush's. Does the Arkansas Democrat have the right stuff to fix the economy?
Mr. Clinton, it is safe to say, has been too busy raising money and acting Presidential to figure out how he would get from here to there. But in contrast to Ross Perot and George Bush, candidate Clinton has delivered a remarkable amount of protein along with the empty rhetorical calories. And it appears that many of the strategic choices that would drive his economic policies have already been made: 
 Deficits are here to stay. The Clinton economic issue broadside calls for halving the Federal deficit by 1996. But Martin Feldstein, the Harvard economist and sometime adviser to Republican Presidents, points out that Mr. Clinton is just taking credit for what is likely to happen anyway.
Most of the planned reduction, he notes, would come automatically with the economic recovery already under way. And most of the rest would come from unspecified savings in government administration and closing tax loopholes -- a process Benjamin Friedman of Harvard finds "all very similar to Reagan's planned savings from eliminating fraud, waste and abuse." Thus, in the most plausible scenario, the economy would reach full tilt at mid-decade with a "structural" deficit close to $200 billion.
One explanation, Mr. Feldstein suggests, is that like George Bush, Mr. Clinton does not have the courage to challenge the incredibly expensive pension and medical care subsidies that old folks, both rich and poor, now demand from Uncle Sam. The other, which economists generally view more charitably, is that beefing up investment is more important than trimming the deficit.
"The reason for opposing deficits," Mr. Friedman said, "is that they soak up savings" going into investment. Thus if the Clintonauts are really serious about tilting spending toward public investment, tolerance of deficits would not seem nearly as damning.
In a pinch, Washington can pick winners. In apparent homage to the ideas of Ira Magaziner, a Rhode Island business consultant who advises Mr. Clinton, the campaign plan bubbles with enthusiasm for infrastructure: "Just as constructing interstate highways in the 1950's ushered in two decades of unparalleled growth, creating the concrete foundations of the 21st century will help put Americans back to work and spur economic growth." All told, Mr. Clinton would channel $50 billion more a year into bricks and mortar and educated minds.
Alicia Munnell, the research director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, thinks "the basic thrust is correct." She is convinced that America invests too little and that private markets cannot do the job alone.
But Ms. Munnell worries that objective "cost-benefit" criteria will not be used to separate the cheetahs from the tabbies. And the Clinton plan offers little to relieve her anxieties: While the Congressional Budget Office has estimated that exceptionally high returns in public investment often come in mundane areas like road repair, the plan targets hot-button technologies ranging from toxic waste treatment to high-speed passenger trains.
The working poor come first. While the choice of Al Gore for Vice President has been widely interpreted as a bow to the Rainforest Crunch bunch, Mr. Clinton's economic heart still apparently belongs with the people who count their change at Taco Bell. Indeed, Gene Sperling, the campaign coordinator for economic issues, makes no secret of the fact that Mr. Clinton scrapped the promise of middle-class tax cuts in order to be able to pay for programs that coax the poor off welfare and into the world of work -- everything from a national apprenticeship program to beefed-up Federal wage subsidies.
This commitment draws rave reviews from Rebecca Blank, an economist at Northwestern University, who argues that "the biggest problem the country faces in labor markets is the decline of earnings of the unskilled." However, it is going to be a tough one to sustain politically.
Research suggests that mainstreaming the poor is doable but expensive -- and thus bound to be resented by voters working harder than they ever expected to meet their mortgage and car payments. Only a big jump in average earnings is likely to take the pressure off. And that is mostly in the hands of the capricious gods of productivity growth, who have not deigned to smile on this economy since Cadillacs had fins.
The sobering reality is that lean times have left the next President with little room for economic maneuver. More sobering still, an effort to reinvest in people and places would take years to bear fruit. If Mr. Clinton is elected, his toughest job may be to preach sacrifice and patience to an electorate grown cynical on voodoo economics.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (61%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



514 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Goodrich Net Jumps by 57.8%

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News

DATELINE: AKRON, Ohio, July 15

 BODY:
The B. F. Goodrich Company, citing strength in its aerospace products and services segment, said second-quarter net income rose 57.8 percent.
Net income rose to $13.1 million, or 43 cents a share, from $8.3 million, or 25 cents a share, in the corresponding quarter a year ago. Revenue increased 3.2 percent, to $657.3 million from $637 million. 
 Operating income rose in the aerospace products and services segment, with strong performance in the commercial aircraft wheel and brake unit, Goodrich said.
In specialty chemicals, operating income declined to $13.7 million from $18.7 million as demand for construction sealants declined with the sluggish pace of commercial construction. Demand for roofing maintenance products and adhesives was also limited.
Goodrich said third-quarter earnings should continue to improve, but the magnitude of the increase would depend on economic conditions. The company's stock climbed $1.125, to $44.625, in trading today on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GR (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (95%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (95%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOODRICH, B F, CO GOODRICH CORP (95%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOODRICH, B F, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



515 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Arts Czar Of Berlin: Power and Problems

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BERLIN, July 13

 BODY:
Cultural bureaucrats lead shadowy lives, lost behind the brilliance of better-known artists and directors. Which is as it should be. Yet some such bureaucrats wield enormous power and use that power to shape a city's or a country's cultural life in ways that are ultimately as lasting as those of any single artist.
Take Ulrich Roloff-Momin, for instance. As the Berlin Senator for Cultural Affairs, Mr. Roloff-Momin probably has more power than any other cultural official in the world aside from Jack Lang. Mr. Lang's long tenure as Minister of Culture in the highly centralized French system makes him easily the world's foremost cultural politician. 
 In no other country is there a national figure like Mr. Lang, but Mr. Roloff-Momin runs him a reasonably close second. While Germany gives an enormous amount of public money to the arts, that money is apportioned through a federal structure in which individual states -- Berlin is simultaneously a city and its own state -- exercise decisive power.
As Berlin's cultural senator, Mr. Roloff-Momin is head of an agency of 210 cultural administrators and oversees an annual budget that in 1992 consists of nearly $600 million. By comparison, the 1992 budget of the National Endowment for the Arts in Washington, meant for the entire United States, is only $174 million.
 
More Than Just Money
 Berlin's beehive of cultural activity draws nourishment from the subsidies Mr. Roloff-Momin's agency dispenses, freeing arts institutions from the need to court the broadest popularity or to spend time beseeching corporations and foundations and wealthy (and often conservative) individuals for support.
But Mr. Roloff-Momin does far more than merely dole out subsidies. He is also responsible for choosing those who run Berlin's theaters and orchestras and opera houses. In theory, once an administrator has been selected, that person is in charge of further artistic and financial decisions and is protected from political and bureaucratic interference. In practice, Mr. Roloff-Momin's power reaches still further.
For example, he chose Georg Quander to be the administrative director of the German State Opera in the heart of the former East Berlin. But he also cooperated closely with Mr. Quander in signing the conductor Daniel Barenboim to become that theater's artistic director.
The major limitation on his jurisdiction is the Prussian Cultural Foundation, controlled by the federal Government in Bonn and intended to oversee the former property of the Hohenzollern monarchy. It still has the decisive say at the big museums. But that may change when a new law to reorganize relations between the states and the federal Government is negotiated in 1995.
What remains under Mr. Roloff-Momin's control, however, is a huge area excluding private galleries and commercial film theaters but including just about everything else, from the grandest institutions down to community centers. "Whoever sits in this position has to concern himself with the widest possible range of culture," Mr. Roloff-Momin explained.
 
Unifying Parallel Worlds
 There is yet another, vitally important aspect to Mr. Roloff-Momin's activities. It is he who must make nearly all the basic decisions involving the enormously complex process of coordinating often parallel cultural institutions in the former East and West Berlins. What to do about two Academies of Art, two Museums of Asian Art and on and on?
It would seem to be a job destined to make enemies. Asked recently at an outdoor cafe in Berlin's Dahlem district if there had been complaints about his near-absolute rule, Mr. Roloff-Momin -- who has a sense of humor -- said, "Not that I'm aware of."
He may be right, at least in that he seems to have managed to make fewer enemies than almost anyone else in his position might be expected to do. An example of his persuasive powers was his treatment of two competing choral groups, one from the East and one from the West and both regarding themselves as the legitimate heir to the city's foremost amateur chorus, the Singakademie.
The groups were at loggerheads, unable to agree on a unification plan. Instead of forcing the issue, Mr. Roloff-Momin invited both to a dinner at the old East Berlin city hall in May of last year. After a friendly speech and a good deal of city-supported alcoholic lubrication, the evening ended in a spontaneous sing-along. In the wake of cheery and teary protestations of good will, a unification plan arose from the groups themselves, rather than being imposed from on high.
 
The Subtler Pressures
 In the United States, governmental arts support is often paralyzed by political controversy. In Europe, given centuries-old traditions of monarchical underwriting of the arts, overt political interference is more muted. Still, political pressure manifests itself in subtler ways. Mr. Roloff-Momin tries to minimize politics by remaining unaffiliated with a political party, although he adds quickly that he is ideologically close to the Socialists.
Berlin's municipal Senate is chosen by the elected Parliament of the state of Berlin. The senators then appoint themselves to the various jurisdictional areas. A lawyer, the 53-year-old Mr. Roloff-Momin was for 13 years the head of the University of the Arts in West Berlin. He has been cultural senator since early 1991 and must report on his activities every two weeks to a Senate standing committee.
Despite his successes and seeming popularity, his job has not been easy. Germany is feeling the unexpectedly high costs of reunification, coupled with the worldwide recession. Berlin's $600 million cultural budget includes about $130 million from the federal Government in Bonn. But that has been cut recently, and the task of deciding just what economies must be made has been passed on to the heads of the city's cultural institutions.
 
Answers for Critics
 Like all Berliners, Mr. Roloff-Momin hopes that Bonn gets around soon to passing a formal "capital contract," wherein Berlin will receive an agreed-upon sum annually from the national Government that will include culture. Now each year's level of federal support must be dickered for, with politicians from Bavaria and the Rhineland and elsewhere not always sympathetic to Berlin's special needs.
There are those who complain about Berlin's three opera houses and eight symphony orchestras, for instance. But with three and a half million inhabitants, Berlin has, by Mr. Roloff-Momin's calculations, roughly the area and the population of the Ruhr district, with nine opera houses. The Berlin budget breaks down to a $175 per citizen for culture, compared with $535 in Frankfurt.
"Berlin is a model for the rest of Germany," Mr. Roloff-Momin argued. "If we choose a good person -- Barenboim, for example -- that is a signal to the other cities that they should press for similar quality. But if we began to eliminate theaters, then other finance ministers would do that, too." So far, he adds, no theater or major cultural institution in the western or eastern parts or the city has had to close, despite a rather grimmer record in surrounding eastern Germany.
The main objections to Mr. Roloff-Momin's tenure seem to revolve around his appointments, especially in the area of theater. Partly to resolve unification personnel problems, he has shown a penchant for cumbersome committee rule, as in the recent naming of five well-known directors to run Brecht's old theater, the Berliner Ensemble. Or the equally unwieldy directorate at the combined Berlin State Theaters, which has just broken up in bitterness.
Still, whether any other system or person could do a better job is open to question; certainly there seems to be no campaign to replace Mr. Roloff-Momin. The Culture Senator himself presses forward, seeking to resolve differences, steer his charges through economic and political shoals and support any new institution or idea that comes forward and appears to deserve public money.
"If it's good," he said, summarizing an attitude far removed from the angry impoverishment of American cultural politics, "it will get support."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ulrich Roloff-Momin, the Berlin Senator for Cultural Affairs, is the second most powerful cultural official in the world. (Gunter Schneider for The New York Times) (C18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BERLIN (GERMANY) GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (95%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ENDOWMENTS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BUDGETS (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (68%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (67%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (67%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN; ROLOFF-MOMIN, ULRICH

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



516 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Character vs. Caricature;
Can Bill Clinton Be Trusted?

 BODY:
In 1988, he nominated Michael Dukakis with a speech voicing anguish over America's lack of concern for children. But no one remembers that; the 19-page address brought groans from a Democratic Convention that had barely five pages of patience. It was, someone gibed, either the longest nominating speech or the shortest Presidential candidacy in history.
This time around, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas has shrewdly and tirelessly persevered to win the nomination. Tonight, following Gov. Mario Cuomo's stirring nomination last night, he goes before the 1992 Democratic Convention to make another speech, to rally the public to his own candidacy. But if he is to succeed he'll need more than wit and energy. He'll have to confront a bigger, simpler subject: trust. 
 Even in ordinary times, it's hard for unknowns like Jimmy Carter or Michael Dukakis to establish themselves as Presidential timber. It's even more difficult in this era when the public mistrusts all politicians. It's harder still for Bill Clinton. He had hardly presented his fresh face to New Hampshire primary voters before it was defaced with one mud pie after another -- accusations of adultery, ducking the draft, fudging about marijuana, improving on the truth.
The medieval trial by fire has become today's media trial by electronic fire; and he survived. Even so, fairly or not, the doubts persist and Americans are left to ask, Can the public trust his character? Tonight he has the opportunity to transcend the caricatures. Instead of being judged by isolated incidents and hostile allegations, he can define himself in terms of lifetime values, preached and practiced.
How well he does that will help answer the related question, Can the public trust his leadership? Governor Clinton has so far done a laudable job of telling where he would lead. He argues persuasively that the only way to compete in the new global economy is to invest in people -- in their education, training and productivity.
It's a cogent plan. Productivity surely is the key to economic growth. But investment requires money, and so far Mr. Clinton has barely begun to tell where to find it. He calls for dismayingly small cuts in defense and no large tax increases, and exaggerates administrative savings, especially in health care. The failure to capture the peace dividend alone is enough to raise worries about how well he would stand up to Congress.
There have, however, been some hopeful signs of candor at the convention. The keynoter Barbara Jordan, for instance, solemnly pronounced the need for "Equity of sacrifice. That idea says that we will sacrifice for growth, but that everybody must join in the sacrifice, not just a few."
It would be reassuring to hear words like that from the nominee. There must be room, somewhere between empty oratory and suicidal candor, to express a commitment to sharing the burden.
Sharing the burden: That could also be a motto for America's relations with the world. Can the public trust his global leadership? With the end of the cold war, the President may no longer be The Leader of the Free World. But he remains the most important one. Mr. Clinton talks sense about a list of foreign issues, but it's still a list. He would make a stronger case with a larger vision. What, for example, does he think should be the relationship of the New World to the New World Order?
 Finally, Can the public trust his leadership on political integrity? Money and politics is no longer the passion of a few good-government goo-goos. Voters everywhere say they are disgusted. It's small wonder, as political action committees pour millions into the campaigns of legislators who then vote for billions in benefits.
Governor Clinton's record on this subject is exemplary -- as reassuring as President Bush's surrender is repellent. Mr. Clinton has had to struggle for campaign funds in part because he refuses to take any PAC money. He supports limits on campaign spending. He supports ending the flow of underground sewer money to candidates. He favors easier voter registration. These are all reforms the President has just vetoed.
There is one puzzle. Politicians often say the right thing and duck when the time comes to do it. That's one reason for what Bill Clinton describes as the "wall of cynicism" he faces from voters. But here's an area in which he demonstrably does the right thing; what's puzzling is why he doesn't say more about it. This is one subject on which he already has earned the treasure of trust.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); TAX LAW (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (93%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



517 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
The Me-Too Democrats

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
If Russia can abandon Communism, the Democratic Party -- in a New York minute -- can say goodbye to income redistribution, the essence of liberalism.
"Growth" -- the economics of the bigger pie -- is the unabashed message of Clintonomics. "Why not change from a party with a reputation of tax-and-spend," intoned the keynote lecturer Barbara Jordan, "to one with a reputation of investment and growth?" 
 While Republicans want to stimulate that growth through tax reduction, Democrats want to stimulate growth through government "investment" (never say "spending") in training and technology. Different painless paths, same growth goal.
Ex-liberals will continue to waggle a vestigial digit at F.D.R.'s "economic royalists," but they know that not even confiscation of the incomes of millionaires will put a dent in the deficit. The Clinton platform admits that the passion to redistribute income is as outdated as the cold war.
If conservatism has won, why are conservatives in danger of losing in '92? We can rightly claim that the "misery index," adding inflation to unemployment, is half that of the dismal Carter years, with today's interest rates falling and the stock market rising, but who cares? Mr. Bush is running against a party that is stealing his clothes of growth.
The ticket of the broad shoulders, Clinton and Gore, is electable, as the Perot aberration is not (that summertime tent is not a political home, and will fold). The buoyant Democrats offer a contrast to the present lassitude and rhetorical aimlessness of the Bush White House.
In a nutshell, the 1992 campaign is about aspects of personal freedom embodied in the word "choice." In education, health care and product or environmental regulation, Republicans stress personal choice and local option, while Democrats prefer national standards and less choice; but when it comes to abortion and the toleration of dissent, Democrats are for personal freedom while Republican dogma calls for national prohibition or restrictions.
How have the Democrats, in convention assembled, presented their aspects of freedom? Not as well as I had hoped; in his desperation to differentiate his convention from the divisive gatherings of the past, Bill Clinton shut down dissent.
He was right to demand a pre-convention endorsement from Jesse Jackson before giving him a speaking slot, because the irreverent reverend has chosen the celebrity of talk-show host to the nitty-gritty of political office. (He called King Herod "the Dan Quayle of his day" in a silly display of Salome tactics.)
But Clinton was wrong to demand prior allegiance from Jerry Brown, who came with 600 hard-earned delegates. This allowed the far-out Californian to pop off on prime-time newscasts before he was begrudged speaking time from the podium. The foolish Clinton muscle-flexing showed an intolerance of diversity and a tendency to be a sore winner.
The same desire to run a well-dressed, orderly, Republican-style convention slammed the door on anti-abortion dissenters. Gov. Robert Casey of Pennsylvania, whose state's abortion restrictions were upheld in the superb Supreme Court decision reaffirming Roe v. Wade, was shut out. Clinton's message: No pro-lifers need apply.
That politics of exclusion opens an opportunity for Republicans at their Houston convention. In contrast to the lockstep-enforcement in Madison Square Garden, the anti-abortion Bushies could give podium time to pro-choice Republican women. A respectful hearing -- with a stern no-booing admonition from the G.O.P. convention chairman -- would dramatize the "big tent" idea and the intolerance of the Democratic Convention.
But that is next month's controversy. For Democrats coming home to their party today, it makes good sense to acknowledge defeat of an economic ideology, to come up with an adaptation that can be labeled a third way.
Such "me-tooism" makes sense. What rings false, however, is the spectacle of the party of the people on its best behavior, meekly following its script.
Clinton's platform "covenant," like the word "convention," is rooted in the Latin convenire, "to come together, agree." His followers rightly agree on wrenching ideological change. But must Democrats forsake their lusty diversity in aping Republican discipline? Sometimes party unity asks too much.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); TAX RELIEF (71%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (90%); JERRY BROWN (55%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



518 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Stop Legal Harassment of Our Trade Partners

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Trade Gap Too High? Export a Few Lawyers" (Business Day, July 2), an otherwise insightful look at trade complaints by American steel companies, fails to expose the real problems of the growth of dumping suits against foreign companies. The unmanageable Comprehensive Trade Act of 1987, which many dubbed the "full employment of Washington lawyers and lobbyists act," has abetted legal and political harassment of foreign products and companies. 
 However, many Americans are not aware that greedy bedfellows of United States steel executives, unions, Washington lawyers and their friendly politicians are gouging billions of dollars at the expense of American consumers and businesses. They are gutting the technological and employment bases of the economy.
Under the camouflage of "dumping," "export subsidies" and "fair market value," American plaintiffs manipulate their numbers to prove their complaints. Foreign defendants cannot expect fair hearings from the International Trade Commission, the supposedly neutral adjudicator staffed by President Bush's appointees, which sides overtly with American plaintiffs. The commission is giving foreign defendants only five minutes each to rebut more than 30,000 pages of American complaints.
American steel companies state that a mere 6.5 million tons a year of flat steel imports are hurting them, while they sell 45.5 million tons a year of comparable products. Eliminating 6.5 million tons of imports would increase by 20 percent the price of $385 a ton. Such a price increase would provide windfall and monopoly profits of $2 billion a year to the United States steel industry. The foreign import pressure to modernize the industry would also disappear.
No wonder that the steel companies are willing to spend $30 million in legal and lobbying fees to get a $2 billion-a-year return indefinitely. It is not foreigners but American consumers and businesses that would pay dearly for inflated prices and inferior quality of American steel products.
Since automobile and other industries imitate the greedy steel industry, Americans would lose more. The United States automobile industry got a taste of such lucrative legal investment last month. A groundless dumping charge against Toyota and Mazda mini-vans stopped the imports of Japanese mini-vans and increased the prices of American mini-vans by 20 percent. Only American society as a whole lost badly.
Legal harassment of competitors has let American businesses and unions avoid facing the real causes of their economic decline: archaic management, self-serving executives and manipulative lawyers. With Presidential leadership adrift, in an increasingly fractious society, industry blames competitors for problems of its own making, and it costs the United States legal expenses of $120 billion a year. That's more than is spent on research and development.
Besides prison guards, prison facilities and private security businesses, legal harassment is the only growth business in the United States. Not only does it add little to America's technological and employment base, but more important it is also pushing American and foreign businesses to reduce American operations and take their jobs abroad.
To counteract legal and political harassment, Japan and other countries will begin to retaliate. Japanese steel companies that have helped American steel companies with money and technology will pull support from the United States steel industry. The Japanese Government is waking up to let American businesses in Japan taste a dose of their own medicine of frivolous legal harassment.
When similar retaliation spreads from Canada to Europe, from Korea to Brazil, worldwide trading and investing systems will further collapse. Is this the price Americans are prepared to pay in addition to the immediate $2 billion a year additionally to the United States steel industry and its lawyers?
 
YOSHI TSURUMI
Professor of International Business
Baruch College, CUNY
Scarsdale, N.Y., July 2, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN STEEL CORP (92%); AMERICAN STEEL & WIRE CORP (92%); AMERICAN STEEL LLC (92%); TRADE PARTNERS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMPREHENSIVE TRADE ACT OF 1987 LAWYERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); LOBBYING (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); PRICE INCREASES (86%); PRICE CHANGES (86%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (76%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (73%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1992



519 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: DIALOGUE: Adrenaline for the Economy -- Whose Road to Prosperity?
Clinton: Spur Growth

BYLINE: By Robert B. Reich; Robert B. Reich, a political economist at Harvard's
John F. Kennedy School of Government, is an economic adviser to Gov. Bill
Clinton.

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton's plan to revive the economy calls for some carefully focused private investment. But the centerpiece is public investment, which in the emerging global economy is critical.
 The Administration's economic record, the worst since Herbert Hoover's, stems from the failed "trickle down" logic of supply-side economics. Today, private investment does not necessarily trickle down: it trickles out to wherever around the world it can get the highest return. 
A country's major asset, on which its future standard of living uniquely depends, is its people -- their education, insights and skills -- and the infrastructure supporting them. Private investors worldwide can be induced to create good jobs in a country only by a skilled work force, first-class transportation and communications systems and cost-efficient energy supplies.
 Germany is building "smart" highways and expanding its apprenticeship system. France has a national program for worker retraining and an information network linking all homes. Japan is extending its high-speed inter-city railways. Most industrialized nations provide early-childhood education and health care.
 In contrast, the U.S. has turned its back on public investment. Since 1980, the Government has cut funding of education, training, child health and infrastructure by a third.
 The Clinton growth strategy calls for $219.5 billion in new public investment over four years. About half this sum would be invested in people -- insuring healthy infants and children, fully financing Head Start, creating good schools, giving school dropouts a second chance, providing kids who are not going to college with apprenticeship training, enabling all eligible students to pay for college, retraining workers and helping people off welfare and into jobs.
 The other half would connect major cities by high-speed rail, reduce highway congestion through "smart" roads, control toxic wastes, develop clean and efficient energy sources, link every home and classroom to a national information network and upgrade urban transportation, water and sewage systems.
 The Clinton plan would raise $295 billion -- enough also to give some tax relief to the middle class and to reduce the deficit; the deficit would be halved by 1996, mostly through faster economic growth. The investments in people would be financed largely by a tax increase on the top 2 percent of income earners (yielding $92 billion over four years) -- the only Americans whose after-tax incomes grew during the 1980's and whose share of the national wealth soared.
 About a third ($43 billion) of the infrastructure investment would be financed out of defense cuts. It would spur the conversion of our military technologies into world-class transportation, communication, energy and pollution-control technologies. The remaining revenues would come from other spending cuts and the closing of corporate tax loopholes.
 Some parts of the plan could be accelerated to jump-start the economy right away. Several infrastructure projects could create jobs immediately. But many payoffs would not come for years -- when today's kids become productive members of the future work force.
 The plan, requiring accountability, would set tough performance standards for schools and training programs, require that college loans be repaid out of future earnings or community service and use the line-item veto to block pork-barrel projects. Bill Clinton's plan sets the right direction and priorities for America's economic future. Instead of rewarding a few at the top and relying on capital to trickle down, it nurtures the grass roots of our economy -- where our work force is.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (71%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (70%); TAX INCREASES (68%); TAX RELIEF (67%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (65%); TAX LAW (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT B; CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1992



520 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: DIALOGUE: Adrenaline for the Economy -- Whose Road to Prosperity?
Bush's Plan Means Jobs

BYLINE: By Roger B. Porter; Roger B. Porter is Assistant to the President for
Economic and Domestic Policy.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
President Bush has advanced a comprehensive economic program to create jobs and increase the standard of living for all Americans. His growth agenda is based on three convictions about America and the 1990's.
 First, we must invest in our future. A wise nation does not consume its seed corn through excessive current consumption. It makes sound investments in plant, equipment, research, development, infrastructure and the education and training of its people. 
Second, growth must be our first priority. Rather than arguing about how to divide the economic pie, the Bush plan focuses on how to enlarge it.Third, we must strengthen our global competitiveness and maintain our position as the world's leading exporter. Protectionism sacrifices prosperity for the many to achieve security for the few. Reducing trade barriers enhances competition, creates jobs and expands opportunity.
 These convictions rest on the President's belief that markets allocate resources more efficiently than Government bureaucracies, that economic growth is essential to achieving our aspirations as a society and that we need not fear foreign competition.
 Investing in the future requires increasing private savings and reducing public borrowing. The President's proposals for flexible I.R.A.'s, an investment tax allowance, enterprise zones and capital gains will stimulate greater private savings. His proposals to eliminate 246 unnecessary Federal programs, reduce others and cap the growth of entitlements (while fully protecting Social Security) represents the only detailed plan to date to restrain the growth of spending and balance the budget.
 The President's budget focuses resources on those most in need, seeks record Federal investment in research, development, infrastructure, training and education and expands funding for children.
 Generating growth also requires stimulating technological innovation, removing unnecessary regulations and reducing litigation. We must also invigorate the energy, telecommunications and banking industries by enacting the President's reform proposals.
 Central to economic growth is an educated, skilled work force. The national education goals advanced by President Bush and all 50 governors have been followed by the President's America 2000 education strategy, already embraced by 45 states, in the largest bipartisan effort to revolutionize our schools in America's history.
 The fundamental reality of the 1990's is that the global economy has become increasingly integrated, whether measured by trade in goods and services, investment flows or financial arrangements.
 Ours is the largest national economy, with the highest productivity per worker. In the last two years America has again become the world's largest exporter. Since 1986, exports have accounted for nearly two million new jobs.
 U.S. leadership has brought us within reach of success in the most ambitious global trade negotiations ever undertaken and in forging a North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico. Both agreements will mean more and better jobs.
 Future economic historians will emphasize two factors that have contributed to economic frustration for many Americans. First, the money supply grew far too slowly for far too long. Economic growth was sacrificed in an abundance of caution over the fear of rekindling inflation. Second, for three successive years the Congress failed to enact the President's economic growth proposals. Recently lowered interest rates should help, but what is most needed now is a majority in Congress deeply committed to economic growth and willing to enact the President's growth agenda.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US PRESIDENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); HISTORY (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LITIGATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); MONEY SUPPLY (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (51%); 

PERSON: PORTER, ROGER B; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1992



521 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 16, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk; The Convention

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: THE SURROUNDING SCENE -- THE TALK OF QUEENS;
Democratic Strays Look Homeward Again

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

 BODY:
From Madison Square Garden, it's a 30-minute drive along rutted highways and the roads John V. Lindsay forgot to plow to reach the Seymour Perlmutter Community Center, where Bernard and Gert Feingold were waving their arms and bouncing in the pool in midafternoon water aerobics.
 City Council races have been won and lost among the chaise longues and card tables of this Little Neck pool club, some say. Every summer a succession of candidates makes pilgrimages to this corner of Queens, where Democrats outnumber Republicans by as much as 3 to 1 and voter turnout is so high it borders on the compulsive. 
We are voters," Bernie Dworkin said. "We don't talk. We go to the polls." Mr. Dworkin, a retired printer, explained the local credo as he raked in nickels and dimes from a winning hand of poker.
 These are also the people that the Democrats can no longer take for granted, the white middle-class voters, many of them Jewish or Catholic, who have increasingly deserted the party in recent years. But in a sign of strength for the Democrats, many people at the pool and on the streets this week said they were tuning into the convention and would be stickingwith Gov. Bill Clinton in November, drawn especially by his choice of Senator Al Gore as his running mate.
 
Giving Up Jackie Mason
 "You know for us to give up the Jackie Mason show would be a very, very big thing, and we're doing that," said Mr. Feingold, 71 years old, of Queens Village.
 "I'm much more excited than I've been in a long time," said Karla Adasse of Bayside. "Especially with Al Gore. I like Al Gore."
 The wide support suggested that some of Mr. Clinton's gambles have paid off, as he broke with regional ticket-balancing and risked alienating the traditional Democratic constituency to attract the political strays who thought the party no longer spoke for them.
 "Clinton, when he didn't give in to Jackson, when he criticized that woman, I really liked that," said Howard Walpin, 68, of Forest Hills, referring to Mr. Clinton's confrontation with the Rev. Jesse Jackson over his criticism of the rapper Sister Souljah.
 Northeastern Queens is a key testing ground for the Democratic message of centrism and generational change. It is the suburbs in the city, a terrain of green lawns, garden apartments and single-family homes. The median income is higher than the city average. The talk is about schools, children, taxes and the driveway robber, who had been holding up people in front of their homes.
 
Archetypal Swing Voters
 Just as they live between city and suburb, the Democrats here are the epitome of the swing voter, uncertain whether their interests lie with the Democratic Party they joined when many still lived closer to the inner city, or whether the Republicans are now more attuned to their fears of crime and worries about taxes.
 Many still long for Edward I. Koch, the outspoken Mayor whose nasal gibes captured the tones of middle-class grievance. When David N. Dinkins edged Rudolph W. Giuliani in 1989, this part of Queens bolted from the party, supporting Mr. Giuliani in some areas by margins of 5 to 1.
 This year, when it came to the Presidential campaign, many of the sunbathers and shoppers said they had simply taken a while to focus on Mr. Clinton, what with their hopes that New York's native son, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, would enter the race, and by the charges about the Arkansas Governor's personal life. They now call those issues irrelevant. "If we had to worry about infidelity we wouldn't have any Presidents," said Sally Dikowitz, 65, a nurse from Fresh Meadows.
 Others said they were drawn in by the selection of Mr. Gore. For although the Tennessee Senator became a captive of Mr. Koch in his losing Presidential primary bid in New York in 1988 and was accused of stirring division between Mr. Jackson and Jews, he is remembered fondly in northeastern Queens.
 "We definitely know that Gore is pro-Israel," said Mrs. Feingold, as her husband complained that President Bush had been too harsh on the Jewish state.
 
Economy Is Bedrock
 The bedrock issue, now more than ever, is the economy.
 "Clinton, I don't believe would say like Bush does, that there's no recession," said Mr. Walpin, a retired store manager.
 Sam Dikowitz, slumped in a poolside lawn chair, thought Ross Perot, the billionaire maverick, had some appeal. But his wife, Sally, disagreed. "Somebody said the other day, if he grows a little mustache they'll really worry," she said, comparing Mr. Perot to Adolf Hitler.
 Mrs. Dikowitz was also peeved at Governor Cuomo for appearing on television and highlighting Mr. Clinton's plans to raise taxes. "What's Cuomo's agenda?" she said with annoyance. "Does he want Clinton to lose so he can run in '96?"
 Monday night, as the Democrats partied in steamy Manhattan, Joseph Meritz, 67, a retired postal worker from Bayside known as Petition Joe because of his legendary skill at getting signatures in support of Democratic candidates, made his rounds.
 As he went door to door through Bell Park Gardens, seeking signatures for Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin, Mr. Meritz worried about apathy and apartment doors that no longer opened to his ring.
 At one stop, the Harris home, the television was tuned to the convention. As they sat watching, Thelma and Lou Harris tried to remember the last time they truly cared about a politician. They ran through a litany of Presidents and losers.
 "When did we care?" mused Mrs. Harris, 72. "Not for Mondale. When was the last time we really cared? Roosevelt?"
 "Probably Truman," said Mr. Harris, 74, from his chair.
 "Kennedy," she said, brightening. "Kennedy. I remember I was very moved by his inauguration speech."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gert and Bernard Feingold, center and right, practicing water aerobics and politics on Monday at their community center in Queens. They represent people the Democrats cannot take for granted, the white middle-class voters who have increasingly deserted the party in recent years. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (93%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (58%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LITTLE NECK (NYC) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); WATER SPORTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); SUBURBS (72%); POKER (71%); CHILDREN (63%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN) AL GORE (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1992



522 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk; The Campaign

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: UNDER THE BIG TOP -- THE OVERVIEW;
PEROT QUITS RACE, LEAVING TWO-MAN FIELD; CLINTON VOWS CHANGE AND 'NEW COVENANT' AS HE AND BUSH COURT ABANDONED VOTERS

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
Ross Perot withdrew from the race for the Presidency yesterday, changing the 1992 campaign back into a two-way race and sending President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton scrambling to fill the space he left on the political map.
The announcement in Dallas followed days of turmoil and division in the campaign of the Texas billionaire, who had all but declared his independent candidacy. It rocked the Democratic National Convention at Madison Square Garden, where Mr. Clinton accepted his party's nomination last night and offered himself as the instrument of change in a time that demands it. 
 "We have got to go beyond the brain-dead politics in Washington, and give our people the kind of Government they deserve: a Government that works for them," he declared. "George Bush, if you won't use your power to help people, step aside, I will."
 
'Patriots for Change'
 Reaching out to Perot supporters, the Governor from Arkansas noted that the independent candidate described the Democrats yesterday as a "revitalized" party. Mr. Clinton added: "I am well-aware that all those millions of people who rallied to his cause wanted to be in an army of patriots for change. Tonight I say to them, join us and together we will revitalize America."
Clinton strategists said they were optimistic about the Perot withdrawal, arguing that it created a clearly defined choice in this election between change with the Democrats and the status quo under Mr. Bush.
Mr. Bush, on a Wyoming fishing trip with Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, also appealed to the Perot supporters. The President said he shared their commitment to family values, fiscal responsibility and a healthy economy. Foreshadowing a traditional ideological assault on the Democrats, Mr. Bush said Perot supporters were "basically conservative people" who should "feel at home with us."
Top Republican officials made it clear that their party's vaunted attack machine, which focused on Mr. Perot last month, would now be brought to bear on Mr. Clinton; his running mate, Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, and their party.
 
'They Give Us Higher Taxes'
 That message was underscored by Rich Bond, chairman of the Republican National Committee. "They give us higher taxes, they can't run foreign policy, they love big government," Mr. Bond said of the Democrats, who have tried hard this week to project a centrist and moderate image.
Anticipating the rough politics of values, Democrats devoted the final night of their convention to introducing Mr. Clinton as a man steeped in the traditions of hard work, patriotism, family and faith. "The story of Bill Clinton is a truly American story," Gov. Ann W. Richards of Texas declared, to a convention that became a sea of American flags by the end of the night.
 
Baker Could Return
 Mr. Clinton, who was repeatedly interrupted by happy chants of "We want Bill," said, "The thing that makes me angriest about what went wrong these last 12 years is that this Government has lost touch with our values, while politicians continue to shout about them."
Mr. Bush, whose candidacy remains mired in the polls, and who has watched Mr. Clinton sprint ahead in his convention week, left the door open yesterday for a return of Mr. Baker to the top of the Bush re-election campaign, the position he held in 1988. At a hastily called news conference after the Perot announcement, the President said he was not "inclined" to rule out a Baker return. "Who knows?" Mr. Bush said. "I don't know."
Political professionals in both parties struggled to figure out who was helped and who was hurt by Mr. Perot's withdrawal. Some argued that his presence in the race would have simply divided the anti-Bush vote, and thus his leaving would inevitably help Mr. Clinton; there were polls this week that seemed to back that up. Others, however, argued that Mr. Perot's withdrawal helped Mr. Bush because they believed Mr. Perot's strength, at its core, was conservative.
What was clear was that Mr. Perot's abrupt announcement reconfigured the rules of a game that the two parties were just beginning to learn. His undeclared candidacy, which surged in the polls last spring before fading under Republican attacks and scrutiny from the news media, had raised a host of strange and new scenarios.
Chief among them was an election in which no one won a majority and the contest was thrown into the House of Representatives. Mr. Perot cited that possibility yesterday as the main reason for his withdrawal, suggesting that a "revitalized" Democratic Party had made an outright Perot victory in the polls unlikely.
 
Gore Shares Emotions
 The parties are now thrown back to an old-fashioned battle between a vulnerable President in an economic downturn and a bruised challenger still trying to introduce himself to the American people. Republicans were raising the specter of taxing and spending Democrats, while Mr. Clinton, anticipating the Republican assault, was asserting last night that he offered a philosophy that "was not conservative or liberal, Democratic or Republican."
The Democratic delegates finished up their rituals last night, loudly and happily delivering their Vice-Presidential nomination to Senator Gore, who underscored the "new generation" Kennedyesque theme of the week. Dismissing the Bush record with an edge of contempt, Mr. Gore led the delegates in a chant: "It is time for them to go."
But, in keeping with the personal tone of this final night, Mr. Gore used part of his speech to talk about his son and his brush with death.
"When you've seen your 6-year-old son fighting for his life, you realize that some things matter more than winning, and you lose patience with the lazy assumption of so many in politics that we can always just muddle through," Mr. Gore said.
Madison Square Garden and the surrounding environs were filled with Democrats buzzing over the implications of it all yesterday. "My view is this was going to be a two-way race sometime in this election, either now or sometime out," said former Gov. Richard Celeste of Ohio. "This is a cleaner choice for people now, undistracted by the wild card of Ross Perot."
Democratic strategists acknowledged that Mr. Perot's withdrawal meant that several Southern states that might have been competitive for them in a three-way race, in which the white vote splintered and blacks stayed with the Democrats, may now be out of reach. In that respect, the all-Southern ticket of Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore might look like less of a coup.
On the other hand, Democrats suddenly had great hopes for California, where Mr. Perot had looked particularly strong and where Mr. Bush has had serious problems.
First and foremost, Democrats were cheered by polls that show as many as eight out of 10 Americans say the nation has gone seriously onto the wrong track. With Mr. Perot gone, "Mr. Clinton will be the one and only candidate of change," said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic consultant.
Democrats were also pleased by what many considered a friendly tip of the hat by Mr. Perot when he referred to the Democrats at his news conference yesterday as a "revitalized" party. Adding to their sense of a Perot tilt toward the Democrats was Mr. Perot's full-throated contempt for Mr. Bush during the course of this campaign.
Moreover, surrogates for Mr. Bush had fiercely attacked Mr. Perot in recent weeks, while the Clinton camp had held its fire, hoping to remain an alternative for disaffected Perot supporters. Both Ronald H. Brown, the Democratic national chairman, and Mr. Clinton called Mr. Perot yesterday and later had gracious words for him. But so did Mr. Bush, who said he told his old antagonist, "I understood how difficult this decision must have been."
 
'The Eyes of America'
 Mr. Clinton's allies were hopeful that the timing of the Perot decision would increase the audience for his acceptance speech last night, rather than overshadow it. "Frankly, it couldn't happen at a better moment," said George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's communications director. "The eyes of America will be upon him."
Polls conducted in recent days, before Mr. Perot's withdrawal, showed Mr. Clinton moving to the front of the race, as often occurs when a nominee gets the burst of publicity that accompanies his convention week.
A CBS News poll conducted Tuesday and Wednesday showed Mr. Clinton at 37 percent, Mr. Bush at 32 percent and Mr. Perot at 17 percent. The poll of 958 registered voters had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
When voters were asked about their second choices in a three-way race, 51 percent of the Perot supporters indicated Mr. Clinton, while 40 percent said Mr. Bush.
Many Democrats at the convention said they worried that the coming campaign would be far nastier without Mr. Perot in the race, since the Republicans can now train their fire on Mr. Clinton without worrying they might inadvertently aid a third candidate.
Republican officials said they simply looked to a straight-ahead comparison between the two parties. While calling the Democratic convention "a very good show," Mr. Bond, the Republican chairman, told CNN yesterday, "The fact of the matter is, we've got to put aside the showmanship for a moment and come down to the effectiveness in government that George Bush and the Republican Party can offer."
He added: "Time is on George Bush's side. Bill Clinton has gotten his bounce way too early in this campaign, the electoral map comes in and works for us again, the selection of Al Gore is shown to be a dud on arrival because it's too narrow a regional choice, and they are now stuck in the South, which is our strongest region. And I think the chances are nine in 10 or even better that George Bush is re-elected President of the United States."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ross Perot's withdrawal yesterday from the race for the Presidency has left President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton reaching out to Mr. Perot's supporters. At the Democratic convention last night, a delegate from California invited contributions from Mr. Perot. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) (pg. A12)
 
Table: "How They Voted"
Following is the roll-call vote by which the Democratic National Convention nominated Bill Clinton for the Presidency last night:
 

State	Clinton	Brown	Tsongas	Other	Ala.	67	0	0	0	Alaska	18	0	0	0	Ariz.	23	12	14	0	Ark.	48	0	0	0	Calif.	211	160	0	35	Colo.	26	19	13	0	Conn.	45	21	0	0	Del.	17	3	1	0	D.C.	31	0	0	0	Fla.	141	3	15	0	Ga.	96	0	0	0	Hawaii	24	2	0	2	Idaho	22	0	1	1	Ill.	155	9	29	1	Ind.	73	20	0	0	Iowa	55	2	0	2	Kan.	43	0	0	1	Ky.	63	0	0	1	La.	75	0	0	0	Maine	14	13	4	0	Md.	83	0	2	0	Mass.	109	6	1	0	Mich.	120	35	0	4	Minn.	61	8	2	21	Miss.	46	0	0	0	Mo.	91	1	0	0	Mont.	21	2	0	0	Neb.	24	9	0	0	Nev.	23	4	0	0	N.H.	17	0	7	0	N.J.	102	24	0	0	N.M.	30	3	0	1	N.Y.	155	67	64	0	N.C.	95	1	0	3	N.D.	18	0	0	1	Ohio	144	34	0	0	Okla.	56	2	0	0	Ore.	38	19	0	0	Pa.	139	43	4	3	Puerto Rico	57	0	0	0	R.I.	27	2	0	0	S.C.	54	0	0	0	S.D.	21	0	0	0	Tenn.	85	0	0	0	Texas	204	4	20	4	Utah	20	9	0	0	Vt.	14	7	0	0	Va.	94	3	0	0	Wash.	49	18	14	0	W.Va.	41	0	0	0	Wis.	46	30	18	0	Wyo.	18	1	0	0	Am. Samoa	5	0	0	0	Dems. Abroad	9	0	0	0	Guam	4	0	0	0	Virgin Islands	5	0	0	0	Totals	3,372	596	209	80	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SAMOA (79%); GUAM (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION; DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION; DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SAMOA (79%); GUAM (79%); TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); FAMILY (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; PEROT, ROSS; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



523 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-8
 
TEST OF ISRAELI'S RESOLVE
Prime Minister Rabin faced a leadership test as Israeli soldiers continued to surround a university in the West Bank. Palestinian students are challenging the troops' right to search them for arms. A3
 
RABIN TO MEET WITH MUBARAK
Israel's Prime Minister will meet with Egypt's President next week in Cairo in an effort to get Middle East peace talks restarted. A3
 

FRANCE REMEMBERS '42 ROUNDUP
As Paris observed the 50th anniversary of the first big roundup of Jews in Nazi-occupied France, President Mitterrand faced pressure to recognize the Vichy regime's responsibility for crimes against Jews. A8
 
U.N. PLANS SOUTH AFRICAN INQUIRY
The Security Council voted to send a special envoy to investigate the political crisis in South Africa and recommend steps to speed talks on a transition to majority rule. A2
 
The Pope was reported to be recovering normally from surgery. A4
 
China raised its target rate for economic growth to 9 or 10 percent. A4
 
A new, nouveau riche breed of tourist floods Crimean resorts. A6
 
Karakorum Journal: Tibetan monasteries rise from the rubble. A4
 
The Campaign A9-17
 
PEROT STEPS ASIDE
Ross Perot withdrew from the race for the Presidency, turning the 1992 campaign into a two-way battle once again and causing President Bush and Governor Clinton to scramble for Perot supporters. A1
For both parties, a revised strategy will now emerge. A10
 
WHY PEROT WITHDREW
Mr. Perot explained his withdrawal by saying the Democrats had recently become so much stronger that he feared that a three-way race would have to be decided in the House, a prospect that he called disruptive. But his campaign aides said there were other reasons as well. A1
Excerpts from Perot's remarks at his Dallas news conference. A16
Perot volunteers feel disappointed, even betrayed. A13
 
The unraveling, step by step, of the Perot campaign. A16
 
CLINTON OFFERS HIS VISION
Accepting the Democratic nomination, Governor Clinton sketched a broad appeal to an American middle class that he said had been victimized by 12 years of Republican administrations. A1
 
The text of Clinton's acceptance speech. A14
 
OF PROSPECTS TRANSFORMED
News analysis: In the last week, Governor Clinton has recast his party's platform and its image. His unorthodox choice of a running mate has won broad acceptance by the party and by the electorate as a whole. He has taken the lead in the opinion polls, and now the Perot withdrawal could give him another lift in the next few days. Who says nothing ever happens at modern nominating conventions? A1
 
A SON OF SOUTHERN GENTILITY
Man in the News: The 45 years in the life of Senator Gore, now officially the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee, have been exactly as one might guess from his unlined face: a parade of conspicuous, well-planned successes. A9
 
BUSH AND BAKER
The President sent the strongest signal yet that he might recruit his Secretary of State to help rejuvenate the struggling Bush re-election campaign. A17
 
National A18-21
 
RESPONSE IN DEMJANJUK CASE
In a brief filed with a Federal appeals court, the Justice Department stood by its investigation concluding that John Demjanjuk, far from being a victim of mistaken identity, had in fact been a Nazi death-camp executioner. A18
 
U.S. DEFENDS PILL SEIZURE
The Justice Department told the Supreme Court that the law required the seizure of French abortion pills from a woman entering the United States two weeks ago. A21
 
NEW FIGHT, SAME COMBATANTS
In Montana, two barely co-existing neighbors are at it again, feuding now over the underground currents that make up the world's largest geyser system and define the character of Yellowstone National Park. And this time Congress has been brought into the act. A18
 
MARRIAGE RATE KEEPS DROPPING
New Government data shows that the decade-long decline in the American marriage rate accelerated last year and that one in four Americans 18 or older has never married. A20
 
DANGER ON THE FREEWAY
The California authorities are cracking down on a kind of insurance fraud in which automobile drivers purposely collide with tractor-trailers on freeways throughout the Los Angeles area. A18
 
REPORT ON HANFORD'S RELEASES
A study of radiation released over the years from the Hanford Nuclear Reservation into the Columbia River has found that the radiation reached the Pacific Ocean 200 miles away, contaminating fish and drinking water along the river and exposing as many as 2,000 people to potentially dangerous doses. A21
 
Law Page A23
 
Minority legal scholars debate the role of race in the legal system.
 
At the Bar
 
Metro Digest B1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-26
 
Presidential commercials. C1
 
Roosevelts and ravioli. C1
 
Challenge for performance artists. C3
 
Film: "A Stranger Among Us." C1
 
"One False Move." C6
 
"Honey, I Blew Up the Kid." C6
 
Music: Keeping folk relevant. C3
 
Art: Art in Review. C22
 
Works by von Rydingsvard. C21
 
Sports B5-11
 
Baseball: Gooden stricken as Mets lose. B5
 
Yankees lose to Angels. B7
 
Vincent responds to Cubs' suit. B7
 
Basketball: Bullets expected to match offer to Grant. B11
 
Boxing: Riddick Bowe, Ali imitator. B5
 
Golf: Floyd ties for British Open lead. B5
 
Tennis: Agassi still on post-Wimbledon high. B7
 
Obituaries A22
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A26-27
 
Editorials
 
Through Bill Clinton's eyes.
 
Captain Perot jumps ship.
 
More than just a court.
 
A breakthrough on Mexican trade.
 
Letters
 
A. M. Rosenthal: The Perot mystery.
 
Anthony Lewis: Jumpers and doers.
 
Art Buchwald: I owe it all to Mr.
Baker.
 
Richard B. Bernstein: Hot-wiring the Convention, 1787.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); EGYPT (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); FRANCE (91%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); TIBET (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (55%); 

STATE: XIZANG, CHINA (55%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); EGYPT (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); FRANCE (91%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); TIBET (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (55%); XIZANG, CHINA (55%); CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMED FORCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



524 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Campaign

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: END OF A CANDIDACY -- THE RISE AND FALL;
Running Against His Ambivalence: Five Months of a Not-Quite Campaign

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER

 BODY:
The wild ride of Ross Perot ended yesterday as abruptly as it began on the night five months ago when the crusty billionaire from Dallas appeared on "Larry King Live" and grudgingly told America that if it summoned him to the Presidency he would heed the call.
The invitation on Feb. 20, prefaced by Mr. Perot's insistence that he couldn't see himself getting "all caught up in a political process that doesn't work," fired the CNN switchboard as nothing had before. 
 But that was only the beginning. After challenging supporters to get him on the ballot in all 50 states, Mr. Perot opened 30 telephone lines in Dallas to receive calls on an "800" number. Within a week he had to triple his phone capacity to handle the response, and after an appearance on the "Donahue" program in March his aides said he received more than 500,000 supporting phone calls in a single day.
In a political year marked by pervasive mistrust of politicians, Mr. Perot's clipped efficiency, his can-do image and his mythic success as a hard-driving businessman struck an immediate chord with many voters eager to reject the alternatives. Early polls reflected his arrival as the most serious -- albeit undeclared -- third-party Presidential candidate since George C. Wallace in 1968.
 
A Splendid June
 Starting with 16 percentage points to Bill Clinton's 31 and George Bush's 44 in March, he had inched by the beginning of May to within 5 percentage points of Mr. Clinton and 10 of President Bush in New York Times/ CBS News polls. By last month he had surpassed the Arkansas Governor and was within 2 percentage points of Mr. Bush.
Mr. Perot stressed repeatedly how important it was to him that he not be perceived as a politician, and he called for "action, action, action," something he said the Washington crowd had stopped delivering long ago. Mr. Perot, who was prodded into his flirtation with the Presidency by a Tennessee businessman and politician, John J. Hooker, has spent much of the race expressing his ambivalence about entering it.
He presented himself as man who would rather do anything than be President. The billionaire, who owns an original copy of Magna Carta and whose office is filled with busts by Frederic Remington and paintings by Norman Rockwell, said that if he were needed for the "dirty, thankless" job of rescuing America from "the Establishment" he would do his duty.
As Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas stumbled through a spring filled with bad publicity and as the persistently sour economy helped drive President Bush lower in the polls, Mr. Perot presented the image of a man who understood that America was broken and who knew how to fix things. "Get it done," became one of his favorite expressions, and at first voters thought he could.
 
Bristled at Questions
 When asked on a radio talk show about his stance on gun control, he responded, "All I've ever said is we've got to get the guns out of the hands of violent people." Asked how, he bristled. "You'll hear a lot before November, fair enough?" he said. "But not on a 30-minute talk show."
But if Mr. Perot's initial appeal was based on his status as a political outsider, popularity and the demands of a national Presidential campaign began to erode that distance. On June 3, he stunned many politicians by announcing that he had hired as campaign co-chairmen two nationally known inside operators: Hamilton Jordan, who had helped Jimmy Carter make his long run to the White House in 1976, and Edward J. Rollins, who ran the 1984 Reagan campaign.
The announcement was seen as proof that Mr. Perot was absolutely serious about running for office. But reaching into the bedrock of politics for advisers seemed to many of his supporters like the first real tasting of the forbidden fruit. How can you run against politics as usual, many wondered, by relying on the usual politicians?
 
Heat of the Summer
 By early summer Mr. Perot's popularity had crested -- at least temporarily -- and the private businessman seemed to reel under the continual pressure of Presidential politics. The folk hero who rescued from an Iranian jail two of his employees at Electronic Data Systems, the computer giant he started in 1962 with a $1,000 after leaving I.B.M., bent ever-so-slightly to the demands of his puzzling new journey.
His unofficial entry into the race had foreshadowed his campaign style: he took to the airwaves and ignored the endless touring that has marked Presidential contests since 1960. "Why should I have to publish my private schedule?" he asked early on. Voters, as disaffected with the press as with many politicians, appeared to agree.
But even through his much-heralded appearances on cable television and at the electronic town halls that he argued could help him govern the country, he came under increasingly sharp questioning about how he would provide "world class" solutions to fundamental problems.
Suddenly, the man who seemed like a political natural on television early in the year became edgy and combative when challenged on issues. Under the direction of James Squires, the former editor of The Chicago Tribune who was his chief press spokesman, Mr. Perot refrained from discussing issues in depth, because he said he wanted to be "up to speed" before he talked. His promise of complete positions was never fulfilled.
 
Frank to a Fault?
 At first, his disarming honesty thrilled voters long wearied by prefabricated answers. (Asked on "Larry King Live" whether he thought President Bush should attend the Earth Summit last month in Rio de Janeiro, Mr. Perot said, "I don't know a thing about it.") When asked about the deficit he said that it was a humbling problem, but that if he could get "the best people" in a room nothing, not even the deficit, was without a solution.
But the candidate's frankness had a down side, too. On the day the Supreme Court decided its most important abortion case of the term -- and one of its most controversial in years -- Mr. Perot, who supports choice for women, said he "hadn't spent a minute" thinking about crucial aspects of the law.
In the past couple of months, Mr. Perot was jarred by a succession of reports in newspapers and on television. It was disclosed in accounts by a Vietnamese official and by Mr. Perot himself that after going to Hanoi in 1987 to free Americans who might have been kept as prisoners after the Vietnam War, Mr. Perot and an associate discussed private business opportunities with top Vietnamese.
There were also reports that he had a penchant for investigating opponents in the political and business worlds. Denying reports that he had employed private investigators to uncover information that could be potentially embarrassing to the President, Mr. Perot characterized the accusations as part of the "dirty tricks crowd" in Mr. Bush's campaign.
Over the past month, as Mr. Clinton regained momentum and the Perot advisers squabbled over how to conduct the campaign, the fairy tale seemed just that. Last week, Perot ended his relationship with Hal Riney & Partners, a San Francisco-based advertising firm that developed the "Morning in America" theme for Mr. Reagan in 1984. The next day in Nashville he spoke to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, in his first campaign appearance before a black group.
"I don't have to tell you who gets hurt first when this sort of thing happens, do I?" he said, referring to the stubborn recession. "You, your people do. Your people do. I know that, and you know that."
The reference to "your people" infuriated many blacks. Then on Wednesday, less than two months after he arrived, Mr. Rollins resigned from the campaign -- taking at least 10 political consultants with him -- saying that Mr. Perot was simply unwilling to follow his advice.
He had no Vice-Presidential choice. Although his name had been placed on the ballots of 24 states his organization would have had to work hard to get him on the rest.
"I don't have any drive to be President of the United States," Mr. Perot said yesterday. He omitted the tantalizing pledge that began his campaign last winter: "But if you, the people, will register me in 50 states, I'll promise you this: between now and the convention we'll get both parties' heads straight."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A passerby peered into the window of Ross Perot's campaign headquarters in Washington after Mr. Perot announced yesterday that he would not run as an independent candidate for President. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times); "I don't think that he quite realized the tension, the pulling and tugging and the extraneous ideas that come out about a Presidential candidate," said Morton H. Meyerson, senior advisor to Ross Perot. He listened to Mr. Perot's announcement yesterday with Sharon Holman, the press secretary. (Mark Perlstein for The New York Times)
 
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); GOVERNORS (74%); PAINTING (70%); 

PERSON: SPECTER, MICHAEL; PEROT, ROSS GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



525 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
Digital Equipment's founder, Kenneth H. Olsen, will retire as president, ending 35 years at the helm of the world's second-largest computer company, after I.B.M. Wall Street analysts, startled, speculated that the board may have forced the move. Robert B. Palmer, vice president of manufacturing and logistics, will be named to succeed Mr. Olsen. [D1.] Digital's survival is expected to depend on moving quickly to its new Alpha RISC chip. [D1.]
Hewlett-Packard named Lewis E. Platt to succeed John A. Young as president. Mr. Platt has been lauded for revitalizing the Silicon Valley company's computer business. [D2.] 
 A.T.& T. net income grew a scant 3.6 percent, to $961 million in the second quarter, over the 1991 quarter when it had a one-time gain of $87 million from sale of Sun Microsystems' stock. Nynex's net rose 13.9 percent, to $331.1 million. [D4.]
Apple Computer reported net income of $131.7 million, in contrast to a loss of $53.1 million a year earlier, when it took a restructuring charge of $138.9 million. [D4.]
Time Warner reported a second-quarter profit of $9 million, in contrast to a loss of $32 million a year earlier. It also announced a 4-for-1 stock split and a 12 percent dividend rise. [D2.]
Caterpillar reported a net loss of $53 million. It cited weak foreign demand and this year's U.A.W. strike. [D4.]
Philip Morris reported a 19.5 percent profit rise, as strong international sales offset softness in the domestic market. [D4.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
Germany's central bank raised the discount rate, effective Friday, to 8.75 percent from 8 percent, its highest level in 61 years, to bolster the credibility of Bonn's inflation-fighting efforts. But it left the more important short-term Lombard rate unchanged. [D1.]
Japan has hit upon a way to raise foreign chip makers' market share, helping it in a trade dispute: It will count chips I.B.M. ships to Japan for its own use. Americans are not impressed. [D4.]
 
THE ECONOMY
Housing starts fell 3.2 percent in June, but analysts expect modest improvement starting in July because of the lowest mortgage rates in two decades. In one of the few bright economic reports, first-time applications for unemployment benefits fell in early July to the lowest level in nine months. [D18.]
The F.C.C. proceeded with its plan to allow telephone companies to transmit television programming, but stopped short of permitting them to produce it. [D5.]
 
MARKETS
Stocks rose with the Dow Jones industrial average up 16.21 points at 3,361.63. A rally started when Ross Perot's sudden withdrawal from the Presidential race removed some political uncertainty, but economic concerns slowed it. [D8.]
Prices of Treasury securities staged an abrupt turnaround, closing narrowly mixed after being down as much as a point early in the session following the Bundesbank's rate rise. [D15.]
The dollar fell against most currencies following the Bundesbank's move, but recovered a bit after the Perot withdrawal removed some uncertainty. [D16.] Gold and silver prices fell after the Perot decision because as uncertainty diminishes, people are less like to seek an asset haven. [D16.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
Bethlehem Steel's promised $64 million loss created nervousness among investors, but the company and some analysts contend that things are not so bad as they appear. Market Place. [D8.]
G.M.'s Philip Guarascio wanted to talk about soccer -- the automaker is sponsoring the World Cup championships. But pressed on weighter matters, he described a "more risk-taking, a more entrepreneurial attitude, in developing marketing programs and advertising programs." Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (88%); ELECTRONICS (79%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (69%); DIVIDENDS (69%); MARKET SHARE (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); STOCK SPLITS (68%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); MORTGAGE RATES (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (60%); HOUSING STARTS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



526 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Foreign Businesses Help Raise Earnings at Philip Morris

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
The Philip Morris Companies said yesterday that profits rose about 19.5 percent in the second quarter, with strong performances by the international cigarette and food businesses offsetting some softness in the United States.
The company's troubled Kraft General Foods division in the United States showed signs of improvement, and an aggressive share repurchase program helped earnings. 
 Michael A. Miles, chairman and chief executive of Philip Morris, said: "In spite of very challenging economic and competitive circumstances in many of our markets, our businesses performed well in the second quarter. We expect the company's strong net earnings trend to continue for the rest of the year."
 
Higher Dividend Predicted
 Ronald Morrow, an analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company, said the strong results would be likely to lead to a dividend increase of up to 25 percent when the Philip Morris board meets in August.
For the quarter, earnings increased to $1.35 billion from $1.13 billion in the 1991 period. Earnings per share rose 21.3 percent, to $1.48, from $1.22 a year ago. Revenues increased 2.6 percent, to $15.16 billion from $14.77 billion.
Philip Morris stock, a favorite of many analysts, moved up 12.5 cents, to $78.50, on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday.
The company and analysts said cost-cutting was beginning to pay off at Kraft General Foods, whose revenues were off slightly and operating income improved 3.1 percent. Still, shipments of the company's important cheese, processed meats and frozen dinners were down.
John M. McMillin, an analyst with Prudential Securities,said that while shipments in the domestic tobacco business fell 1.2 percent, the first drop in more than a year, the product mix was good, and the company's market share improved. Operating income in the domestic tobacco business rose 13.2 percent.
In the quarter, Philip Morris, based in New York, increased its share of the full-price cigarette market by 1.9 percent, to 51 percent. The company controls about 30 percent of the discount market.
International tobacco's operating income increased 14.7 percent. Shipments were down 3.2 percent, largely because of a delay in arranging financing for shipments to Russia.
 
Miller Holds Share
 Operating income for the company's beer business increased 11.7 percent. Shipments of Miller were up slightly, while Miller Lite shipments dropped 5 percent. Still, Mr. McMillin said the brand seemed to be holding its share in a competitive arena.
The international food business fared well, with operating income gaining 18.4 percent.
The bottom line was lifted by Philip Morris's share buyback. In the second quarter, the company repurchased 11.6 million shares for $870 million. That brings the share's repurchased this year to 16.9 million. The company now has about 912 million shares outstanding, and about $3.5 billion remains in the buyback program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (98%); PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (98%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC ALTRIA GROUP INC (98%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (70%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); SHIPMENTS (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CHEESE (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); FOOD MFG (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); TRENDS (75%); FROZEN FOODS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); EXECUTIVES (56%); MEATS (50%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN JOHN M MCMILLIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



527 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk; The Campaign

LENGTH: 4186 words

HEADLINE: IN THEIR OWN WORDS;
Transcript of Speech by Clinton Accepting Democratic Nomination

 BODY:
Following is the speech by Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas to the Democratic National Convention last night accepting the party's Presidential nomination, as transcribed by The New York Times.
Governor Richards, Chairman Brown, Mayor Dinkins, our great host, my fellow delegates and my fellow Americans. 
 I am so proud of Al Gore. He said he came here tonight because he always wanted to do the warm-up for Elvis. Well, I ran for President this year for one reason and one reason only: I wanted to come back to this convention and finish that speech I started four years ago.
Last night, Mario Cuomo taught us how a real nominating speech should be given. He also made it clear why we have to steer our ship of state on a new course.
Tonight I want to talk with you about my hope for the future, my faith in the American people, and my vision of the kind of country we can build, together.
I salute the good men who were my companions on the campaign trail: Tom Harkin, Bob Kerrey, Doug Wilder, Jerry Brown and Paul Tsongas. One sentence in the platform we built says it all: "The most important family policy, urban policy, labor policy, minority policy and foreign policy America can have is an expanding, entrepreneurial economy of high-wage, high-skill jobs."
And so, in the name of all those who do the work, pay the taxes, raise the kids and play by the rules -- in the name of the hard-working Americans who make up our forgotten middle class, I proudly accept your nomination for Presidency of the United States.
I am a product of that middle class. And when I am President you will be forgotten no more.
We meet at a special moment in history, you and I. The cold war is over; Soviet Communism has collapsed, and our values -- freedom, democracy, individual rights, free enterprise -- they have triumphed all around the world. And yet just as we have won the cold war abroad, we are losing the battles for economic opportunity and social justice here at home. Now that wehave changed the world, it's time to change America.
I have news for the forces of greed and the defenders of the status quo: your time has come -- and gone. It's time for a change in America.
Tonight, 10 million of our fellow Americans are out of work. Tens of millions more work harder for lower pay. The incumbent President says unemployment always goes up a little before a recovery begins. But unemployment only has to go up by one more person before a real recovery can begin -- and Mr. President, you are that man.
This election is about putting power back in your hands and putting government back on your side. It's about putting people first.
You know, I've said that all across America. And whenever I do, someone comes back at me, as a young man did justthis week at a town meeting at the Henry Street Settlement on the Lower East Side of Manhattan: He said: "That sounds good, Bill. But you're a politician. Why should I trust you?"
 
Taught to Fight and Unify By Mother and Grandfather
 Tonight, as plainly as I can, I want to tell you who I am, what I believe and where I want to lead America.
I never met my father.
He was killed in a car wreck on a rainy road three months before I was born, driving home from Chicago to Arkansas to see my mother.
After that, my mother had to support us. So we lived with my grandparents while she went away to Louisiana to study nursing .
I can still see her clearly tonight through the eyes of a 3-year-old: kneeling at the railroad station and weeping as she put me back on the train to Arkansas with my grandmother. She endured that pain because she knew her sacrifice was the only way she could support me and give me a better life.
My mother taught me. She taught me about family and hard work and sacrifice. She held steady through tragedy after tragedy. And she held our family, my brother and I, together through tough times. As a child, I watched her go off to work each day at a time when it wasn't always easy to be a working mother.
As an adult, I've watched her fight off breast cancer. And again she has taught me a lesson in courage. And always, always she taught me to fight.
That's why I'll fight to create high-paying jobs so that parents can afford to raise their children today. That's why I'm so committed to make sure every American gets the health care that saved my mother's life. And that women's health care gets the same attention as men's. That's why I'll fight to make sure women in this country receive respect and dignity -- whether they work in the home, out of the home, or both. You want to know where I get my fighting spirit? It aIl started with my mother. Thank you, Mother. I love you.
When I think about opportunity for all Americans, I think about my grandfather.
He ran a country store in our little town of Hope. There were no food stamps back then, so when his customers -- whether they were white or black -- who worked hard and did the best they could came in with no money, well, he gave them food anyway. Just made a note of it. So did I. Before I was big enough to see over the counter, I learned from him to look up to people other folks looked down on.
My grandfather just had a high-school education -- a grade-school education. But in that country store he taught me more about equality in the eyes of the Lord than all my professors at Georgetown; more about the intrinsic worth of every individual than all the philosophers at Oxford, more about the need for equal justice under the law than all the jurists at Yale Law School.
If you want to know where I come by the passionate commitment that I have to bringing people together without regard to race, it all started with my grandfather.
 
Building an America That Values Every Family
 I learned a lot from another person, too. A person who for more than 20 years has worked hard to help our children. Paying the price of time to make sure our schools don't fail them. Someone who traveled our state for a year. Studying, learning, listening. Going to PTA meetings, school board meetings, town hall meetings. Putting together a package of school reforms recognized around the nation. Doing it all while building a distinguished legal career and being a wonderful loving mother.
That person is my wife.
Hillary taught me. She taught me that all children can learn, and that each of us has a duty to help them do it. So if you want to know why I care so much about our children and our future, it all started with Hillary. I love you.
Frankly, I'm fed up with politicians in Washington lecturing the rest of us about "family values." Our families have values. But our Government doesn't.
I want an America where "family values" live in our actions, not just in our speeches. An America that includes every family. Every traditional family and every extended family. Every two-parent family, every single-parent family, and every foster family. Every family.
I do want to say something to the fathers in this country who have chosen to abandon their children by neglecting their child support: Take responsibility for your children or we will force you to do so. Because governments don't raise children; parents do. And you should.
 And I want to say something to every child in America tonight who's out there trying to grow up without a father or a mother: I know how you feel. You're special, too. You matter to America. And don't you ever let anybody tell you you can't become whatever you want to be. And if other politicians make you feel like you're not a part of their family, come on and be part of ours.
 
Putting People Back to Work And America Back in Front
 The thing that makes me angriest about what's gone wrong in the last 12 years is that our Government has lost touch with our values, while our politicians continue to shout about them. I'm tired of it.
I was raised to believe the American dream was built on rewarding hard work. But we have seen the folks in Washington turn theAmerican ethic on its head. For too long, those who play by the rules and keep the faith have gotten the shaft. And those who cut corners and cut deals have been rewarded. People are working harder than ever, spending less time with their children, working nights and weekends at their job instead of going to PTA andLittle League or Scouts, and their incomes are still going down, their taxes are going up, and the cost of health care, housing and education are going through the roof. Meanwhile, more and more of our best people are falling into poverty -- even though they work 40 hours a week.
Our people are pleading for change, but government is in the way. It's been hijacked by privileged, private interests. It's forgotten who really pays the bills around here. It's taking more of your money and giving you less in service.
We have got to go beyond the brain-dead politics in Washington and give our people the kind of government they deserve: a government that works for them.
A President ought to be a powerful force for progress. But right now I know how President Lincoln felt when General McClellan wouldn't attack in the Civil War. He asked him, "If you're not going to use your army, may I borrow it?" And so I say, George Bush, if you won't use your power to help America, step aside. I will.
Our country is falling behind. The President is caught in the grip of a failed economic theory. We have gone from first to 13th in the world in wages since Reagan and Bush have been in office. Four years ago, candidate Bush said America is a special place, not just "another pleasant country somewhere on the U.N. roll call, between Albania and Zimbabwe." Now, under President Bush, America has an unpleasant economy stuck somewhere between Germany and Sri Lanka. And for most Americans, Mr. President, life's a lot less kind and a lot less gentle than it was before your Administration took office.
Our country has fallen so far, so fast, that just a few months ago the Japanese Prime Minister actually said he felt "sympathy" for the United States. Sympathy! When I am your President, the rest, the rest of the world won't look down on us with pity but up to us with respect again.
What is George Bush doing about our ca's economic problems?
Well, four years ago he promised 15 million new jobs by this time, and he's over 14 million short. Al Gore and I can do better.
He has raised taxes on the people driving pickup trucks and lowered taxes on the people riding in limousines. We can do better.
He promised to balance the budget, but he hasn't even tried. In fact, the budgets he has submitted to Congress nearly doubled the debt. Even worse, he wasted billions and reduced our investments in education and jobs. We can do better.
So if you are sick and tired of a Government that doesn't work to create jobs, if you're sick and tired of a tax system that's stacked against you, if you're sick and tired of exploding debt and reduced investments in our future, or if, like the great civil rights pioneer Fannie Lou Hamer you're just plain old sick and tired of being sick and tired, then join us, work with us, win with us -- and we can make our country the country it was meant to be.
 
Vowing to Accomplish What Bush Has Not

Now George Bush talks a good game. But he has no game plan to rebuild America, from the cities to the suburbs to the countryside so that we can compete and win again in the global economy. I do.
He won't take on the big insurance companies and the bureaucracies to control health costs and give us affordable health care for all Americans, but I will.
He won't even implement the recommendations of his own Commission on AIDS, but I will.
He won't streamline the Federal Government and change the way it works; cut 100,000 bureaucrats and put 100,000 newpolice officers on the streets of American cities, but I will.
He's never balanced a government budget, but I have. Eleven times.
He won't break the stranglehold the special interests have on our elections and the lobbyists have on our government, but I will.
He won't give mothers and fathers the simple chance to take some time off from work when a baby is born or a parent is sick, but I will.
We're losing our farms at a rapid rate and he has no commitment to keep family farms in the family, but I do.
He's talked a lot about drugs, but he hasn't helped people on the front line to wage that war on drugs and crime, but I will.
He won't take the lead in protecting the environment and creating new jobs in environmental technologies for the 21st century, but I will.
And you know what else? He doesn't have Al Gore, and I do.
Just in case -- just in case you didn't notice, that's Gore with an 'e' on the end.
And George Bush -- George Bush won't guarantee a woman's right to choose. I will. Hear me now: I am not pro-abortion. I am pro-choice, strongly. I believe this difficult and painful decision should be left to the women of America. I hope the right to privacy can be protected and we will never again have to discuss this issue on political platforms. But I am old enough to remember what it was like before Roe v. Wade, and I do not want to return to the time when we made criminals of women and their doctors.
Jobs. Education. Health care. These are not just commitments from my lips. They are the work of my life.
Our priorities must be clear: we will put our people first again. But priorities without a clear plan of action are just empty words. To turn our rhetoric into reality we've got to change the way Government does business, fundamentally. Until we do, we'll still be pouring billions of dollars right down the drain.
 
Envisioning Change Within Party and Nation
 The Republicans have campaigned against big government for a generation. But have you noticed? They've run this big government for a generation, and they haven't changed a thing. They don't want to fix government, they still want to campaign against it, and that's all.
But, my fellow Democrats, it's time for us to realize that we've got some changing to do, too. There is not a program in government for every problem. And if we really want to use government to help people, we have got to make it work again.
Because we are committed in this convention and in this platform to making these changes, we are as Democrats, in the words that Ross Perot himself spoke today, a revitalized Democratic Party. I am well aware that all those millions of people who rallied to Ross Perot's cause wanted to be in an army of patriots for change. Tonight I say to them: join us, and together we will revitalize America.
Now, I don't have all the answers. But I do know the old ways don't work. Trickle down economics has sure failed. And big bureaucracies, both public and private, they've failed too.
That's why we need a new approach to government. A government that offers more empowerment and less entitlement, more choices for young people in the schools they attend, in the public schools they attend. And more choices for the elderly and for people with disabilities in long-term care they receive. A government that is leaner, not meaner, a government that expands opportunity, not bureaucracy, a government that understands that jobs must come from growth in a vibrant and vital system of free enterprise. I call this approach a New Covenant, a solemn agreement between the people and their government, based not simply on what each of us can take, but what all of us must give to our nation.
We offer our people a new choice based on old values. We offer opportunity. We demand responsibility. We will build an American community again. The choice we offer is not conservative or liberal; in many ways it's not even Republican or Democratic. It's different. It's new. And it will work.
It will work because it is rooted in the vision and the values of the American people. Of all the things George Bush has ever said that I disagree with, perhaps the thing that bothers me most is how he derides and degrades the American tradition of seeing and seeking a better future. He mocks it as "the vision thing." But just remember what the Scripture says: "Where there is no vision, the people perish."
I hope, I hope nobody in this great hall tonight or in our beloved country has to go through tomorrow without a vision. I hope no one ever tries to raise a child without a vision. I hope nobody ever starts a business or plants a crop in the ground without a vision. For where there is no vision, the people perish.
One of the reasons we have so many children in so much trouble in so many places in this nation is because they have seen so little opportunity, so little responsibility, so little loving, caring community that they literally cannot imagine the of life we are calling them to lead. And so I say again: Where there is no vision, America will perish.
 
Offering a New Covenant Based on Responsibility
 What is the vision of our New Covenant?
An America with millions of new jobs and dozens of new industries moving confidently toward the 21st Century. An America that says to entrepreneurs and business people: We will give you more incentives and more opportunity than ever before to develop the skills of your workers and create American jobs and American wealth in the new global economy. But you must do your part: you must be responsible. American companies must act like American companies again -- exporting products, not jobs. That's what this New Covenant is all about.
An America in which the doors of college are thrown open once again to the sons and daughters of stenographers and steelworkers. We'll say: Everybody can borrow the money to go to college. But you must do your part. You must pay it back, from your paychecks, or better yet, by going back home and serving your communities. Just think of it. Think of it: millions of energetic young men and women, serving their countryby policing the streets, or teaching the children, or caring for the sick, or working with the elderly and people with disabilities, or helping young people stay off drugs and out of gangs, giving us all a sense of new hope and limitless possibilities. That's what this New Covenant is all about.
An America in which health care is a right, not a privilege. In which we say to all our people: Your government has the courage, finally, to take on the health care profiteers and make health care affordable for every family. But you must do your part: preventive care, prenatal care, childhood immunization; saving lives, saving money, saving families from heartbreak. That's what the New Covenant is all about.
An America in which middle-class incomes -- not middle-class taxes -- are going up. An America, yes, in which the wealthiest few, those making over $200,000 a year, are asked to pay their fair share. An America in which the rich are not soaked -- but the middle class is not drowned, either. Responsibility starts at the top; that's what the New Covenant is all about.
An America where we end welfare as we know it. We will say to those on welfare: "You will have, and you deserve, the opportunity, through training and education, through child care and medical coverage, to liberate yourself.
But then, when you can, you must work, because welfare should be a second chance, not a way of life. That's what the New Covenant is all about.
An America with the world's strongest defense, ready and willing to use force, when necessary. An America at the forefront of the global effort to preserve and protect our common environment, and promoting global growth. An America that will not coddle tyrants, from Baghdad to Beijing. An America that champions the cause of freedom and democracy, from Eastern Europe to Southern Africa, and in our own hemisphere in Haiti and Cuba.
The end of the cold war permits us to reduce defense spending while still maintaining the strongest defense in the world. But we must plow back every dollar of defense cuts into building American jobs right here at home. I know well that the world needs a strong America, but we have learned that strength begins at home. But the New Covenant is about more than opportunities and responsibilities for you and your families. It's also about our common community. .
Tonight, every one of you knows deep in your heart that we are too divided.
 
Rejecting Idea of 'Them,' With Arkansas as Model
 Itis time to heal America.
And so we must say to every American: Look beyond the stereotypes that blind us. We need each other. All of us -- we need each other. We don't have a person to waste. And yet for too long politicians have told the most of us that are doing all right that what's really wrong with America is the rest of us. Them. Them, the minorities. Them, the liberals. Them, the poor. Them, the homeless. Them, the people with disabilities. Them, the gays. We've gotten to where we've nearly themed ourselves to death. Them and them and them. But this is America. There is no them; there's only us. One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty, and justice, for all. That is our Pledge of Allegiance, and that's what the New Covenant is all about.t
How do I know we can come together and make change happen? Because I have seen it in my own state. In Arkansas we're working together and we're making progress. No, there's no Arkansas miracle. But there are a lot of miraculous people. And because of them, our schools are better, our wages are higher, our factories are busier, our water is cleaner and our budget is balanced. We're moving ahead.
I wish, I wish I could say the same thing about America under the incumbent President. He took the richest country in the world and brought it down. We took one of the poorest states in America and lifted it up.
And so I say to all those in this campaign season who would criticize Arkansas: Come on down. Especially, especially if you're from Washington, come on down. Sure, you'll see us struggling against some of the problems we haven't solved yet. But you'll also see a lot of great people doing amazing things. And you might even learn a thing or two.
In the end, my fellow Americans, this New Covenant simply asks us all to be Americans again. Old-fashioned Americans for a new time. Opportunity. Responsibility. Community. When we pull together, America will pull ahead. Throughout the whole history of this country, we have seen time and time and time again when we are united, we are unstoppable. We can seize this moment, make it exciting and energizing and heroic to be an American again. We can renew our faith in each other and in ourselves. We can restore our sense of unity and community. As the Scripture says, our eyes have not yet seen, nor our ears heard nor our minds imagined what we can build.
But I, I can't do this alone. No President can. We must do it together. It won't be easy, and it won't be quick. We didn't get into this mess overnight, and we won't get out of it overnight. But we can do it, with commitment, creativity, diversity and drive. We can do it. We can do it. We can do it. We can do it. We can do it. We can do it. We can do it.
I want every person in this hall and every person in this land to reach out and join us in a great new adventure to chart a bold new future.
 
Giving Children a Future Of Boundless Hope
 As a teen-ager I heard John Kennedy's summons to citizenship. And then, as a student at Georgetown, I heard that call clarified by a professor named Carroll Quigley, who said to us that America was the greatest nation in the history because our people have always believed in two things: that tomorrow can be better than today, and that every one of us has a personal, moral responsibility to make it so.
That, that kind of future entered my life the night our daughter Chelsea was born. As I stood in the delivery room, I was overcome with the thought that God had given me a blessing my own father never knew: the chance to hold my child in my arms.
Somewhere at this very moment, a child is being born in America. Let it be our cause to give that child a happy home, a healthy family and a hopeful future. Let it be our cause to see that that child has a chance to live to the fullest of her God-given capacities. Let it, let it be our cause to see that child grow up strong and secure, braced by her challenges, but never struggling alone; with family and friends and a faith that in America, no one is left out; no one is left behind.
Let it be, let it be our cause that when this child is able, she gives something back to her children, her community and her country. Let it be our cause that we give this child a country thatis coming together, not coming apart, a country of boundless hopes and endless dreams, a country that once again lifts its people and inspires the world.
Let that be our cause, our commitment and our New Covenant.
My fellow Americans, I end tonight where it all began for me: I still believe in a place called Hope.
God bless you, and God bless America.
 

GRAPHIC: Photo of Gov. Bill Clinton addressing Democratic Convention (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); FAMILY (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (91%); JERRY BROWN (78%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



528 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk; The Campaign

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: THE PARTY'S OVER -- THE NEW STRATEGY;
Perot's Withdrawal Leaves Major Parties With Ideological Fight

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Ross Perot's withdrawal from the Presidential race has forced the Democratic and Republican campaigns to focus their energies back on the battlegrounds of California and the Midwest, and to sharpen their weapons for what promises to be a meaner and more traditionally ideological contest.
While both campaigns pronounced Mr. Perot's withdrawal a boon, it was clear that they had no better idea of how to round up his volatile and elusive supporters now that he is out of the race than they had of how to deal with him as a candidate. 
 Within hours of Mr. Perot's announcement that he would not run, the race was turning into one in which the Democrats tried to become the home of the disaffected and the Republicans saw an opening for the sort of direct assault at which they have excelled.
"I think, obviously, it's a more traditional two-way race," said Charles Black, a senior adviser to President Bush's campaign. "You have a very liberal Democratic ticket. It may take us a few weeks to communicate that to everybody. It took us a while with Dukakis. But frankly, it puts us back in the kind of race that we're good at."
 
Going After Bush
 The Democrats tried immediately to put this to their own advantage by complaining that the Republicans would run a dirtier campaign with Mr. Perot out of the way. But it is clear that they saw the same opening to make a frontal attack on Mr. Bush.
James Carville, a Clinton strategist, said: "It's easier just against Bush than it was with Bush and Perot. If we're saying change, and Perot is saying change, then you're splitting your change up. I think it gives us an easier way to frame the election."
Mr. Perot's withdrawal increased the pressure on Mr. Bush to put his sputtering campaign into high gear, and the President immediately broke out of his self-imposed seclusion in Wyoming to hold a news conference in hopes of taking advantage of the sudden change in the political wind.
Bush campaign officials said they expected the President's travel schedule, which was set to accelerate after the Democratic National Convention anyway, to become even more fast-paced.
 
Stirring the Voters
 Officials of both teams are still crafting their plans, but it is clear that Mr. Perot's withdrawal made regional strategies based on pluralities in individual states and regions irrelevant.
It also is evident that both parties will now be hard-pressed to stir up much enthusiasm among the disaffected constituency represented by Mr. Perot and to get those voters to the polls on Election Day.
With his withdrawal, the 1992 elections now seem more than ever to be centered on a battle for the conservative Democrats who voted for Ronald Reagan in the 1980's and, more broadly, the middle-class voters of the Industrial Belt and other areas who have been buffeted by the recession.
With these factors clearly in mind, both Mr. Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton telephoned Mr. Perot after his announcement and appealed for his support. Their difference in approach was quickly apparent.
"Ross Perot's supporters have told all of us that it's time to go beyond the politics of blame and division and denial," Mr. Clinton said in a statement. He added, "I invite them to join us in our efforts to change our country and give our government back to the people."
Mr. Bush, whose advisers are keenly aware that Perot supporters were especially critical of his record on the economy, made his approach on the lines of "values" that Republicans have historically drawn in campaigns. "Many of the Perot supporters were basically conservative," Mr. Bush said at the news conference. "We will make it clear to all those Perot supporters that we share many of the same principles."
The President also struck a conciliatory note after weeks in which his aides had conducted an all-out assault on Mr. Perot.
Politicians at the Democrats' convention were having trouble deciding just who the Perot voters are. Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago said: "These people are middle managers. They are skilled tradesmen and white-collar workers who have lost their jobs and understand that George Bush does not have an economic plan to get them back."
But Robert Brady, chairman of the Philadelphia Democratic Party, said, "The average Perot voter was a wealthy Republican who will now stay with the Republican Party."
Strategists from both parties were urgently reviewing the altered political landscape.
California, the biggest campaign prize of all, seemed the least changed by the shift, since Mr. Bush has always been in trouble there and it had been far from clear what effect Mr. Perot might have had.
Mr. Perot's departure did not seem to portend much for the Democrats' slight edge in the Northeast, but Mr. Clinton saw his chances ebbing in Texas and Florida, already difficult states for him, and the Republicans immediately saw an opening in the South as a whole.
Republicans have dominated the region for years. But it had looked promising to Mr. Clinton when he chose Senator Al Gore Jr. of Tennessee as his running mate. With Mr. Perot in the race to draw conservative support, the Democrats had hoped that their own Southern base would be big enough to defeat what was left of Mr. Bush's vote in some states.
But yesterday, the Republicans laid plans to strike southward while Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore went on a bus tour of the Midwest after their convention.
"We're flooding right into the South," said Richard N. Bond, the Republican chairman. "While the Democrats go on their bus tour around the country, we're going to be in the South, basically saying to the South, 'It's still Bush country here and we'd like your help now that we've got a two-man race.' "
Senator Lloyd Bentsen, Democrat of Texas, said Mr. Perot's withdrawal changed the prospects in his state. "With Perot in it, we had a definite edge in Texas," he said. "Now, it's doable, but tough."
Mr. Clinton may pick up disaffected Perot supporters in the recession-strapped Rust Belt, where opposition to Mr. Bush's economic policies is strong. But the Democrats' own position in the Midwest is precarious, and Mr. Perot's withdrawal could glue together splintered Republican blocs in the Rocky Mountains and the Southwest.
Senator Dennis DeConcini, Democrat of Arizona, said Mr. Perot's withdrawal would hurt Mr. Clinton badly in those areas. "It makes it impossibile to win the state," Mr. DeConcini said. But he added that Mr. Perot had at least "made the deficit the issue" and he said that had helped Mr. Clinton.
Deputy Mayor Bill Lynch of New York warned: "The Democratic Party and our candidates cannot be complacent about this. I think Perot's support is very volatile. We can't assume it will automatically go to Clinton, that it won't go back to Bush. The Clinton campaign also can't take the base of the party for granted, working people, African Americans, Latinos."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; PEROT, ROSS RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



529 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk; The Campaign

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: UNDER THE BIG TOP -- ON THE FLOOR;
All Over Town, Delegates Hear About Perot

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

 BODY:
In the Florida delegation just after the opening gavel fell at the Democratic National Convention last night, Lee Barakat was telling the other delegates how she first heard Ross Perot had thrown in the towel.
She had just bought a Perot button as a souvenir from a vendor in front of Macy's for a dollar, she said, when someone else standing there said, "You know, Perot just dropped out of the race." 
 "Just then another man came up and asked for a Perot button," Ms. Bakarat told her friends, "and you know what the vendor said? He said, 'That'll be $20.' "
Her friend, Hilda Westberry, another Florida delegate, rolled her eyes. "Boy," she said, "that's the concession to have today."
It was supposed to be Bill Clinton's and Al Gore's night at Madison Square Garden, but the buzz on the convention floor among the delegates was all about the Perot withdrawal and what kind of person he was and what it would mean for the race.
And all across the hall, people were telling stories about how they got the news, the way people do when something really big happens.
Charles McKain of California, a Brown delegate who switched to Governor Clinton last night, first learned from a notice posted on the door at a gay caucus meeting.
State Senator Kenneth Hall of Illinois was taking a nap in his hotel when a friend called and woke him up.
Velma Lois Jones from Tennessee said she heard in the elevator at the Roosevelt Hotel.
The Texas delegation got the word when it was announced at a breakfast at Tavern on the Green. A shriek went up, and then there was wild applause. But afterward, some had second thoughts. Sam Munn said he wished Mr. Perot had stayed in through the Republican Convention. "Perot was giving them a lot of grief," Mr. Munn said.
Aliceanne Wallace said she had heard a good deal about Perot from her children who had moved from Central Texas to California, become Republicans and then become so fed up with President Bush that they had decided to vote for Mr. Perot.
"I can't wait to call 'em and say it's never too late," she said.
In the Tennessee delegation, Mary E. Perry said she thought of her children, too. "It just goes to show what I have always told them," she said. "Everything and everybody can't be bought."
 
Who's Got the Buttons? Almost Everybody
In the corridor just off the convention floor, under the photographer's platform, a dozen men were crouched over, cheering and yelling and looking for all the world like the craps shooters in "Guys and Dolls."
But they were not rolling dice. They were trading buttons: political buttons, advertising buttons, any kind of button imaginable.
Ben Black, a retired art director from ABC News, said that he had been to conventions as part of his job for more than 40 years but that he had come this year just to trade buttons.
The most coveted ones were not, of course, Clinton-Gore buttons, which are everywhere, or even the ones that say, "Jerry Brown in '96."
Another one no one seemed to want were the blue and white buttons reading "Peabody for Vice President."
Endicott Peabody, the Governor of Massachusetts in the mid-1960's, nominated himself for Vice President last night, gave a speech and then withdrew the nomination. This is something he has done in every recent convention, and almost no one has paid attention.
The best items, Mr. Black said, were those little pins that agents from the Secret Service and the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency wear in their lapels.
"The C.I.A. pin, that's the hardest to come by," Mr. Black said.
 
Congressional Leaders Keep Low Profiles
For much of this century, the Speaker of the House of Representatives was the permanent chairman of Democratic National Conventions and dominated the proceedings. William Bankhead of Alabama did it in the 1920's. Sam Rayburn of Texas ran the conventions for a generation, from the 1940's through the early 1960's. And after that John W. McCormack of Massachusetts and Carl Albert of Oklahoma controlled the gavel.
But this year the Congressional leaders were lying low. The majority leaders, Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine and Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, spoke briefly last night, but it was early, well before the delegates and the television networks had begun to pay attention. And the Speaker, Thomas S. Foley of Washington, gave a brief speech before prime time Monday night.
Down on the floor, Representative Vic Fazio of California said, "I'll be frank, this is not the period of Congressional ascendency."
But outside the Garden, Mr. Foley had plenty to do this week. For one thing, he was the guest of honor at a big party thrown for him at the Temple of Dendur at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The hosts, among others, were Pepsi Cola and the American Telephone and Telegraph Company.
 
From 'Potato' To the Pledge
 It was no surprise when Melba Moore got a rousing ovation for her rendition of "The Star Spangled Banner," but rarely does a crowd get to cheer someone for leading the Pledge of Allegiance.
Last night, though, the Democrats scored a coup. They got William Figueroa, the junior high school student who taught Vice President Dan Quayle how to spell potato, to come in from New Jersey to lead the pledge. He got a bigger cheer than any of the early evening speakers.


GRAPHIC: Ross Perot's supporters have told us that it's time to go beyond the politics of blame and division and denial. They relect the energy and courage that the people of this nation, at their best, can harness when they know change must come. We have heard their message and share their hopes. I ask them to give us a fair hearing. -- Gov. Bill Clinton
Chart: "What They Said About Perot's Decision"
Perot's notion that we need a boss to run America just wasn't right for this country. The American people need the freedom to make their own decisions. -- Mary Gingell, national chair of the Libertarian Party
When the dust clears, the Republicans will gain from Perot's decision because this gives President Bush the opportunity to campaign on the profound differences between the two parties, something which would have been blurred by a Perot candidacy. As for Mr. Perot, he proved to be a shrinking violet under the summer heat of a Presidential campaign, something many of us expected would be the case once the harsh spotlight of media coverage hit him. -- Robert H. Michel, House Republican leader
 A gratifying reaffirmation of the strength of our two-party system. It would have been a tragedy for our democracy if that system had splintered in 1992. -- Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts
 I just called Ross Perot. On a very personal basis, I congratulated him. I told him I understood how difficult a decision it must have been. I told him that he had really and truly energized an awful lot of people. Many of the Perot supporters were basically conservative people; they were people that are worried about the values of family; that were worried about the economy and the need to get these deficits under control; the need to do something different about the neighborhoods. And so I believe that we will have an opportunity to make clear to these people that they should feel at home with us as we start the campaign after the Republican convention. -- President Bush
 We know that two of every three Perot supporters were Republicans. By and large, these people were leaving Bush because of promises unkept. In Perot they saw at least someone they thought could fix the economy. The assumption was that Bush can't fix it, but Perot, being the industrialist, may have had some idea. He never came forward with that plan. -- the Rev. Jesse Jackson
 Ross Perot made a deal with the American people: he said that if we collected enough signatures he would run for President. He ran a world-class campaign; now he has let us down. I feel disappointed and angry.
-- Timothy Murphy, a North Dakota state co-ordinator for Perot
 I thought he had more guts than to drop out this early. -- Dick Rose, vice chairman of Perot's Arizona volunteers
 I personally appreciate his recognition that the Democratic Party has revitalized itself; it has. And I can only second Mr. Perot's statement that he has done the right thing; he has. -- Ronald H. Brown, Democratic national chairman
 The withdrawal of Ross Perot from the Presidential contest indicates the difficulty any person who wishes to run for this high office faces, regardless of his or her financial resources. Undoubtedly, Mr. Perot touched a nerve of discontent among many who feel the system does not work for them. This is a very real feeling, and those who will remain active candidates would do well to heed this reality. -- Benjamin L. Hooks, executive director, N.A.A.C.P.
I think he changed the structure of politics forever. There are lots of roads and avenues for politicians to travel now. I wish him the best. I like him. It will be interesting to see what the Perot supporters do. Will they stay home? Will they go to Clinton? Did Bush make a mistake by knocking Perot, because Clinton didn't attack Perot the way Bush did? The public is in a hostile, angry mood. They're disappointed, and this further adds to their disappointment.
 -- Larry King, Host of the CNN program on which Mr. Perot announced that he was available to run for President
 
Photos of Bill Clinton; George Bush; Robert H. Michel; The Rev. Jesse Jackson; Larry King

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; ROSENBAUM, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JESSE JACKSON (74%); AL GORE (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); TIM MURPHY (58%); SHERROD BROWN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



530 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk; The Campaign

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: THE DEMOCRATICS TICKET: SONS OF THE SOUTH;
Presidential Ticket Sprouts From Soil of 2 Tiny Farm Towns 450 Miles Apart

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOPE, Ark., July 14

 BODY:
Both places have telephone books as thin as pocket Bibles and, as unlikely as it seems, they both now have native sons on the Democratic ticket.
In recent days the candidates have made a point of claiming the towns -- Hope, Ark., the birthplace of Gov. Bill Clinton, and Carthage, Tenn., home to his running mate, Senator Al Gore -- as cradles of early thought, emotion and values, places that despite the 450 miles between them may even unite the men in some fundamental way. 
 "I've never been to Hope, Ark., but I'm told it's just like Carthage in one respect," Senator Gore said when he was invited to join the ticket. "It's a place where people know about it when you're born and care about it when you die."
 
Myths in the Making
 In the case of both men, the connection between biography and geography is complex, since they each spent much time growing up in other places. But both communities are now caught up in a bit of geographic myth-making by admiring friends and family, egged on by candidates who sometimes assert that they remain small-town boys at heart.
Hope draws both its name and location from the railroad, which established it as a whistlestop in 1873 and named it after a manager's daughter.
Much has been written about Mr. Clinton's modest economic roots, with his mother widowed months before his birth. But in Hope, as elsewhere, disadvantage is relative. Asked if Mr. Clinton grew up underprivileged, Falba Lively, his mother's cousin, grows incredulous. "Bill?" she exclaimed.
"They were a little more fortunate than the rest of us, because we didn't even have electricity," said Ms. Lively, 61 years old, referring to the farmhouse outside Hope where she was living when Mr. Clinton was born.
Mr. Clinton left Hope after the first grade, spending the rest of his school years with his mother and stepfather in the more cosmopolitan setting of Hot Springs, a resort town. Then he added addresses at Georgetown, Oxford and Yale to his list of formative residences.
But as parochial as Hope and Carthage may seem, both managed to provide the future politicians with a broader range of acquaintances than they might otherwise have known.
Mr. Clinton would often join his grandfather at his dry-goods store north of the railroad tracks, where he sold goods to black field hands and laborers. Many of his friends and relatives, swayed no doubt by their affection for the Governor, insist that the experience planted the seeds of racial empathy.
"That's where he learned to respect the Afro-Americans so much," said Dale Drake, a 78-year-old cousin. "His grandfather taught him to never, never be ugly to anyone, no matter what color, what anything -- poor, rich, or otherwise."
On a later visit home from college at Georgetown, Ms. Drake said, Mr. Clinton angered his mother by convincing her maid to quit, telling her she deserved a better job.
Neither place has produced race relations that fit antagonistic Southern stereotypes. In Carthage, a picturesque hamlet of 3,500 in the Appalachian foothills, 95 percent of the population is white, and race has not been much of a civic issue. In Hope, a prairie crossroads of 10,000 people, a third of the population is black. So is the town's former Mayor and its only practicing obstetrician.
If Mr. Clinton has now given Hope a taste of fame, it takes credit for occasionally reminding the Rhodes Scholar of the people's priorities.
Ms. Lively remembers a visit after his defeat in his first campaign for re-election as Governor. "Daddy told him, 'You raised the car license fees that's why you lost," she said.
Mr. Clinton returned to office two years later, and he has not lost an election since.
Four hundred and fifty miles northeast, Carthage is a smaller, greener and older place, more hilly and a bit more prosperous.
Median household income in the surrounding county is $23,000, about halfway between figure of $17,000 in the county surrounding Hope and the national average of $30,000.
It too was an isolated farming community a generation ago. Like Hope, it is now caught in transition from an agricultural past to an increasingly industrial future, with factories sprouting where fields once stood.
The Gores like to tell a story about the whittlers who while their days on the courthouse steps. They are said to have called Mr. Gore's Vice-Presidential bid the town's second-biggest event, after the opening of the Wal-Mart store several years ago.
But Mr. Gore is just one of Carthage's famous politicians. Before him was his father, Albert Gore Sr., who served in both the House and Senate. And the previous Carthage generation produced Cordell Hull, Franklin Delano Roosevelt's Secretary of State.
In childhood, Mr. Gore split his time living in Carthage and Washington, where he attended an elite preparatory school before moving on to Harvard. But when not in Washington, he spent summers and vacations working on his father's 218-acre farm three miles east of town. He now has his own home on an 88-acre plot a stone's throw away.
These days the original Gore farm appears more manor than tobacco patch, with its chicken shed converted into a heated indoor pool. But in his youth Mr. Gore sometimes stayed for weeks at a time with the farm manager's family, who still did not have indoor plumbing.
Like them, he groomed cattle and chopped tobacco, although neighbors said the family later stopped growing it after Mr. Gore's sister died of lung cancer. The Gores had more than 300 head of cattle on the farm. The walls of the father's spacious kitchen are lined with pictures of the younger Mr. Gore showing cattle at county fairs.
"His introduction to saving the earth was right here on his daddy's farm," said the elder Mr. Gore, linking early rake work to prevent soil erosion to his son's current aspirations as an environmentalist.
If it took some effort to make the transition from attending preparatory school to working as a farm hand, the younger Mr. Gore apparently did not let it show.
"He just had a knack of fitting in," said Gordon Thompson, 47, whose parents managed the Gore farm. Mr. Thompson remembers traveling with Mr. Gore to county fairs to show cattle, sleeping in straw stalls, and comparing the bruises left when the cattle stepped on their feet.
 
Seeing 'the Other Side'
 "He's seen the other side of people who're a little less fortunate than he was," Mr. Thompson said.
Mr. Gore's father has even suggested that his son's early friendships with laborers who were being drafted into the Vietnam war may have influenced his decision to go, despite the youth's opposition and ample opportunities to join other privileged sons in devising escapes.
But another picture on the Gore kitchen wall serves as a reminder that this was no ordinary farm boy. In it, the elder Mr. Gore is dressed in tails, bidding young Al goodbye as he leaves his Washington residence for a White House ball. "As we turned to go," the senior Mr. Gore said, pointing toward the photo, "he hollered out at me: 'Dad, keep that outfit. I may need it someday.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hope, Ark., the birthplace of Gov. Bill Clinton, is a town in transition where many downtown businesses have closed. Whittlers, right, on the courthouse steps in Senator Al Gore's birthplace of Carthage, Tenn., are said to have called his Vice-Presidential bid the town's second-biggest event, after the opening of the Wal-Mart store several years ago. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times; Robert T. Coleman for The New York Times)
 
Map of Arkansas and Tennessee showing location of Hope, Ark., and Carthage, Tenn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CARTHAGE (TENN); HOPE (ARK) UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (67%); STEPPARENTS (64%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (63%); FARM LABOR (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); DEPARLE, JASON BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



531 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk; The Campaign

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN -- PRESIDENT BUSH;
Bush Switches From Trout And Fishes for Perot Voters

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOULDER, Wyo., July 16

 BODY:
President Bush abruptly broke into a wilderness fishing vacation today to scramble for the remains of Ross Perot's political support, at the same time opening the door to putting Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d in charge of the White House and Bush campaign.
In a brief telephone message to reporters and in a news conference later at a desolate Air Force outpost here, Mr. Bush said he was confident that voters who had backed Mr. Perot's independent candidacy would support his re-election now that Mr. Perot had decided not to run for President. 
 But at the same time the President sent the strongest signal yet that he might recruit Mr. Baker, his Wyoming host, to the White House to help rejuvenate the struggling Bush campaign.
Asked whether he would lay to rest rumors that the Secretary would be changing jobs, Mr. Bush replied: "No, I can't resolve it here today at all. I know nobody will believe this, but it is 3 o'clock in Wyoming, and honestly, I have not talked about that with Jim Baker yet."
"Always, when I'm talking to an old trusted friend, all options are open about what I talk about," the President continued. "But what happens is pure speculation."
He noted that Mr. Baker "has a full portfolio" now, leaving Saturday for the Middle East to try to speed negotiations between Israel and its Arab neighbors. "But after that," Mr. Bush added, "who knows?"
The President's impromptu media blitz, orchestrated from Mr. Baker's 1,700-acre ranch where the two men and two of their sons are fishing, clearly tried to keep his campaign in the minds of Perot backers on a day when his remaining rival, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, dominated the news.
Mr. Bush first talked to reporters about Mr. Perot's decision by satellite phone from the bank of a river on Mr. Baker's ranch. But that message proved too scratchy and muddled for television, and he later summoned the reporters 75 miles from Jackson, Wyo., to the outskirts of Boulder to speak to television cameras.
 
An Unusual Occurrence
 Mr. Bush's news conference, on a barren, brush-covered prairie nearly two hours from any town of measurable size, was among the most unusual in recent years. So remote was the locale and so hastily arranged was the session that television reporters were unable to acquire phone lines or satellite dishes to broadcast the session live. Instead, videotape was rushed by the state police 75 miles to Jackson for relay to network headquarters.
Standing before a backdrop of sagebrush and mountain foothills, the President made his case to Mr. Perot's backers.
"I see this as a positive development, in a sense," he said, "because I am convinced that the conservatives who support Ross Perot -- the legions of conservative people -- will end up being with me, because I think they share the same values I am talking about."
Earlier, Mr. Bush said Mr. Perot's backers were "basically conservative people" who fretted about the erosion of family values, the stagnant economy and rising Federal deficits, and crime and other social problems.
 
To Forgive and Forget
 Mr. Bush said he told Mr. Perot he would welcome an endorsement from the Texas billionaire, who has been described by Vice President Dan Quayle and other Bush surrogates as a "temperamental tycoon" with no known political philosophy beyond a contempt for civil liberties. Only last month, the President condemned as "beyond the pale" news reports that Mr. Perot had once investigated his background and that of his children.
Today, all was forgotten and forgiven as Mr. Bush sought to identify his campaign with the fears and frustration of those who had fueled Mr. Perot's squall-line campaign for the Presidency. In his telephone message, Mr. Bush said he had called Mr. Perot "on a very personal basis" to express admiration for his campaign.
"We will make it clear to all those Perot supporters that we share many of their same principles and that we want their support, and that we welcome them warmly into our campaign," the President said.
 
A Break for the Trout
 The speed and intensity of the White House reaction today seemed to underscore the importance that Mr. Bush's strategists attached to Mr. Perot's withdrawal from the Presidential race.
The President was fishing at about 9:15 A.M. on the second day of a two-day trout-fishing expedition with Mr. Baker when Samuel K. Skinner, the White House chief of staff, called with news of Mr. Perot's decision not to run for President. That was 15 minutes after Mr. Perot's televised announcement.
Mr. Bush talked to Mr. Perot and decided to make two statements to the press within the next three hours.
In Washington the Bush campaign chairman, Robert M. Teeter, issued a statement saying Mr. Perot's grass-roots campaign had "clearly touched a chord with the American people."
The President seemed relaxed and almost laconic at his news conference. Some questions were greeted with a dry wit, such as a query as to whether he had offered congratulations to Mr. Clinton on his nomination, as he had to Mr. Perot on his withdrawal.
Mr. Bush's eyebrows rose. "Oh, no, I forgot to do that," he said to laughter. "Maybe I can do that now. He fought hard, he won his party's nomination and, having been there before myself, I can say that's no mean achievement."
But that was the end of the generosity. "We'll go to general quarters in the fall," he said. "Because we differ on almost everything."
 

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush discussing Ross Perot's decision not to run for President at a news conference yesterday in Boulder, Wyo. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WYOMING, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); ARMED FORCES (71%); POLICE FORCES (69%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (66%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); WINES, MICHAEL; PEROT, ROSS GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



532 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: RATE OF MARRIAGE CONTINUES DECLINE

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 16

 BODY:
Even as "family values" have become a central theme in the 1992 Presidential campaign, newly released Government statistics show that the decadelong decline in American marriage rates accelerated sharply last year.
The figures, from the National Center for Health Statistics, were followed today by new Census Bureau data showing that in 1991, one in four Americans of ages 18 and older, about 41 million people, had never married. In 1970, that figure was about one in six adults. 
 Sociologists and statisticians speculated today that the most likely causes of the drop in marriage rates were economic hard times combined with demographic shifts that have reduced the number of young adults, the age group most likely to marry.
The proportion of Americans getting married in 1991 was lower than any year since 1965, a year when the oldest members of the post-World War II baby boom were just coming into prime marrying age.
While divorce rates peaked in the 1980's and have been leveling off, the drop in marriage rates was accompanied by continuing increases in single-parent families. Between 1970 and 1991, the Census Bureau reported, "the proportion of children living in two-parent living arrangements declined from 85 percent to 72 percent, while the proportion living with one parent more than doubled, from 12 percent to 26 percent."
There were sharp differences in these statistics for whites and blacks. More than half the nation's black children, 58 percent, were living with one parent in 1991, compared with 20 percent of white children.
The statistics also showed more people postponing marriage, especially men. Last year, 17.6 percent of men in the 35-to-39 age group had never married, up from 7.8 percent in 1980. For women, the increase was almost as sharp: Never-married women, who were 6.2 percent of females in the 35-to-39 age group in 1980, accounted for 11.7 percent of the same group in 1991.
At all age levels, black men were disproportionately represented in the "never married" column. For instance, 31 percent of black men ages 35 to 39 had never been married in 1991, up from 18.5 percent in 1980 and 15.8 percent in 1970.
The Census Bureau data also showed that in almost all age groups from 25 to 74 more than a quarter of black men were not living with a spouse, a parent or with children. Only between the ages of 40 and 44 did the percentage of black men not in such family groups fall below 25 percent, to 23.7 percent.
For white men, the rate of those not living in a family group peaked between the ages of 25 and 29 at 28.3 percent, then declines rapidly. In the 40-to-44 age bracket, for example, 15.8 percent of white men do not live in family groups, and that rate drops to 12.9 percent between aqes 55 to 64.
"This pattern is distinctively different for blacks and whites," said Robert J. Willis, who directs the economics research center of the University of Chicago's National Opinion Research Center. He said the differing patterns of marriage and family were evident not just in the less-educated segments of society but show up in surveys of high school graduates as well.
He also said that many statistics involving marriage, child-bearing and child-rearing indicate that recent trends among whites have been mimicking earlier trends among blacks.
For the population as a whole, he said, "My own hunch is that the decline in marriage rates has something to do with the recession. Marriages tend to be accelerated or postponed depending on the state of the economy."
The median age at first marriage has also been increasing. It now stands at 26.3 years for men and 24.1 years for women, higher than at any time in the last century, and continuing long-established trends, he said. For women, he said, "there are two activities that are extremely time-intensive: bearing and raising children, and establishing yourself in a career."
"A lot of people are trying different ways of sequencing them -- marriage first, then babies, then career, or getting established in a career first, then marriage or babies." he said. "It seems to me until people have found a right way to travel through this, it'll be very difficult to predict how these statistics are going to change."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "I Don't" shows the decline of the amount of people who are getting married, from 1940-1992, and the increase in the amount of people who are getting married at a later age, from 1890-1991. (Sources: National Center for Health Statistics; Cencus Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU; NATIONAL CENTER FOR HEALTH STATISTICS US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU; NATIONAL CENTER FOR HEALTH STATISTICS US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: MARRIAGES; BLACKS (IN US) MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (93%); MARRIAGE (93%); CENSUS (91%); STATISTICS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (90%); MEN (89%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); PARENTS (75%); BABY BOOMERS (75%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); WORLD WAR II (68%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY SIR GEORGE YOUNG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



533 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Feud Over Geothermal Water Rights Pits Yellowstone Against a Church

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CORWIN SPRINGS, Mont., July 9

 BODY:
Two of the worst neighbors in the West are at it again, feuding this time over the underground currents of hot water that make up the world's largest geyser system and define the character of Yellowstone National Park.
The park and its neighbors to the north, the Church Universal and Triumphant, led by Elizabeth Clare Prophet, have been at odds ever since church leaders moved their headquarters here in 1986 and began installing an elaborate system of underground bomb shelters. But the latest fight, over geothermal water rights, has brought Congress into the act. 
 Last month, the Senate began considering legislation to prevent landowners from tapping into underground reservoirs of hot water bordering the park; this led church members to untap a geothermal well on its property and fill a swimming pool.
 
Effects on Geysers
 Yellowstone officials were infuriated by the opening of this vein of pressurized water about 10 miles north of the park. Church leaders, citing a geological study, said their well would not affect Yellowstone's geysers. But scientists at the park say one hole in the system could lead to other wells that would eventually drain the system.
Ultimately at stake, says Yellowstone's Superintendent, Robert L. Barbee, is no less an icon than Old Faithful, which is to geysers what the Statue of Liberty is to monuments. Old Faithful, which erupts every 78 minutes on average, is Yellowstone's biggest tourist attraction.
"It would be a national tragedy if something were ever to happen to this park's geothermal features," Mr. Barbee said. "We can't afford the risk. If you let one hole be punched into the ground around the park, why not 10, then a hundred?"
With 60 percent of the world's geysers on its 2.2 million acres, Yellowstone National Park is in the largest geothermal basin on earth. The hot springs, gurgling mud ponds, geysers and steam vents that run through Yellowstone provided the initial impetus for the move to protect the area in 1872, when Yellowstone became the first national park.
Last year, the Old Faithful Protection Act was introduced in Congress as a way to assure that Yellowstone's geysers were not weakened by outside development. But that bill, which passed the House in November, has been stalled in the Senate by advocates of property rights.
When church leaders untapped the well on June 30, they said they wanted to establish a property right to the water so they would be compensated if Congress banned geothermal development around Yellowstone. The well was dug in 1986 but had not been used.
The church, which owns more than 28,000 acres in Paradise Valley, just north of the park, will seek a payment of up to $450,000 if it is deprived of the use of the well, said Edward L. Francis, the church's vice president. Mr. Francis is married to Elizabeth Clare Prophet, the spiritual leader of the church, who said she was directed by God to establish her religious headquarters in the valley.
 
Fears of Money Seekers
 Yellowstone officials and many environmental groups view the church's action as a provocative stab in a long- running conflict between the park and the church. They worry that other landowners around the park, seeing a potential to make money from the Government, could start drilling into geothermal aquifers with the intention of demanding compensation.
In California, Nevada, New Zealand and other places with active hot springs and geysers, developments have drained the natural features of their energy.
"We know that punching holes into the source of geothermal features will eventually ruin them," said John Varley, the chief naturalist at Yellowstone. "So why take the chance?"
 
Constitution Is Cited
 Church leaders say they also want to protect Yellowstone's geysers and hot springs. But they say constitutional guarantees of private-property rights are at issue. They cite a provision of the Fifth Amendment that prohibits a Government from "taking" property without providing just compensation.
Last month, the Supreme Court ruled that the Government must take into account a property owner's economic loss when restrictions are placed on land use. But it is unclear how the decision will apply to the numerous cases of property owners' fighting environmental regulations. The groups battling those restrictions have not rallied to the side of the Church Universal and Triumphant.
It has never been established whether the church even has a right to the hot water that it has pumped from a well 450 feet deep. The church claims that right, but last month Montana state officials said it had no such right in an opinion by the state land use agency.
But the church's critics see other motives.
"This is not a taking," said Represenative Pat Williams, a Montana Democrat who introduced the Yellowstone Protection Act. "The church has no right to such a well. What they have done is place Yellowstone Park in real jeopardy."
Western Republicans on the Senate Energy Commmittee have considerably weakened the bill, Mr. Williams said. The Republicans say they are trying to assure that property rights are not trammeled by the legislation.
The Greater Yellowstone Coalition, the largest environmental group in this area, called the church's untapping of the well "a transparent attempt to pump a geothermal aquifer or the Federal Treasury."
Scientists are not certain exactly how wells drilled into the church land would affect Yellowstone's features. A study by the United States Geological Survey found that the well, if it pumped water at a relativeley small rate, would not hurt the park's geothermal features. But if the pumping were to accelerate and drain the underground reservoir, the Federal scientists said, it "could conceivably cause adverse effects on thermal features in Yellowstone National Park."
The geothermal controversy is the latest in a series of conflicts between the church and its neighbors. Paradise Valley, a high-mountain ribbon of cottonwoods and wild animals, has still not got over an episode three years ago when church members prepared to go into their underground fallout shelters.
Mrs. Prophet has repeatedly raised the prospect of imminent nuclear war. To prepare for such a catastrophe, the church built a shelter for 700 staff and family members and then decreed that all developments on other church-owned land must have fallout shelters.
State officials have held up approval of the shelters ever since April 1990, when 32,500 gallons of fuel leaked from tanks at the shelter complex.
Some Yellowstone officials have also said the church's ranch activities had been detrimental to elk and bison herds, which sometimes roam outside the park in the winter. Church officials say they have gone out of their way to accommodate the animals.
The church headquarters is on a ranch once owned by Malcolm Forbes, the late publisher. The Federal Government had a chance to buy the land in 1980, but turned it down. The church bought the ranch for about $7 million.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yellowstone National Park officials say private wells tapping into the geothermal system around the park could threaten Old Faithful, above. The geyser, which erupts every 78 minutes on average, is the biggest tourist attraction in the 2.2-million-acre park. (Larry Mayer for The New York Times)
 
Map of Yellowstone National Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CHURCH UNIVERSAL AND TRIUMPHANT ROBERT L SIGMON (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHURCH UNIVERSAL AND TRIUMPHANT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; WATER; GEOTHERMAL POWER; GEYSERS GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (91%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); WATER RIGHTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



534 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Bids Opened For Altering Of Shoreham

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, L.I., July 16

 BODY:
The Long Island Power Authority received bids today from three consortiums to convert the Shoreham nuclear power plant to a natural-gas-fired plant by the mid-1990's.
Richard M. Kessel, the chairman of the authority, said, "The fact that the consortiums consist of well-respected energy firms from all over the country shows that the state was prudent in reaching out to determine if there was an alternative use for the plant. 
 "And if we can show that converting Shoreham will allow us to be economically competitive, it will also allow us to move ahead and reduce our dependence on foreign oil," he said, adding that the agency hoped to make a decision this year on whether to convert the plant and if so, which of the bids to accept.
A month ago, the two-year process of decommissioning began. Expected to cost $186 million, it involves the partial dismantling and removal of radioactive parts from the $5.5 billion plant, which is on the North Shore about 55 miles east of Manhattan.
If feasible, Mr. Kessel would like to convert Shoreham to a natural-gas plant and help make Long Island less dependent on the imported oil that fuels Lilco's generators.
 
Three Bids
 The first bid opened, for $274 million, came from a group made up of the New York Power Authority, United Engineers and Constructors Incorporated of Philadelphia, the Enron Power Development Corporation of Houston and Siemens Power Ventures Inc. of Manhattan.
The second bid, for $347 million, was submitted by the Phoenix Shoreham Repowering Partnership of Brooklyn, consisting of Gas Energy Incorporated, a subsidiary of the Brooklyn Union Gas Company, and Union Energy Incorporated of Toronto, Ontario.
The third bid was submitted by the Peconic Energy Venture of Holtsville, L.I., a consortium of subsidiaries of the Bechtel Group Incorporated of San Francisco, the CMS Energy Corporation of Dearborn, Mich., the General Electric Company of Schenectady. N.Y., and the Panhandle Eastern Corporation of Houston. It included three options, priced at $346 million, $343 million and $218 million.
Each bidder also offered to complete the conversion, operate the plant, supply the natural gas and sell the electricity to Lilco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (91%); NG (LSE) (91%); CMS (NYSE) (64%); GNE (PAR) (64%); GEC (LSE) (64%); GE (SWX) (64%); GE (NYSE) (64%); SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (93%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (91%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (66%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (64%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (64%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (54%); SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (66%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (66%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY; NEW YORK POWER AUTHORITY LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (93%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (91%); BECHTEL GROUP INC (84%); GAS ENERGY INC (66%); UNION ENERGY INC (66%); CMS ENERGY CORP (64%); PANENERGY CORP (64%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (64%); SIEMENS AG (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); URS CORP - WASHINGTON DIVISION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY; NEW YORK POWER AUTHORITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (66%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (66%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (66%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT; CONTRACTS ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (92%); POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); BUSINESS INCORPORATIONS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); 

PERSON: KESSEL, RICHARD M; MCQUISTON, JOHN T RICHARD M KESSEL (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



535 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
After Wild Swings, a Mixed Close

BYLINE: BY KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities staged an abrupt turnaround yesterday, and closed narrowly mixed after being down by as much as a point early in the session.
Traders and analysts were left scratching their heads over the cause of the wild price swings. 
 "This was one of the dizzier days that I can remember," said Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, a Princeton, N.J. firm that provides research and commentary on developments in the foreign exchange and credit markets. "It was hard to get a handle on why the market got hammered in the morning, and hard to figure what brought it back in the afternoon."
A desire to capitalize on the recent run-up in prices was clearly a motivating force in Europe, as market participants sold Treasury securities immediately after Germany's central bank announced it was raising its discount rate to 8.75 percent from 8 percent.
 
German Move's Effect
 Talk that the Bundesbank might make such a move had circulated for days, but analysts said that with German interest rates already much higher than those in the United States, any increase should not have lasting effect on the American credit markets.
Prices slid further once trading shifted to the United States on news that initial claims for unemployment insurance fell by an unexpectedly large 15,000 during the week ended July 4. And traders chose to focus on a surge in new mortgage applications rather than a 3.2 percent drop in housing starts during June.
Aping the move in stock prices, the bond market began to perform better after Ross Perot announced he would not run for President.
Some traders said they saw no reason for Mr. Perot's withdrawal from the race as a reason to buy bonds.
"Of the three men in the race, Perot was the only one that really saw the budget deficit as a serious problem," one government-securities trader said. "As a result, I really can't see why his departure from the race would be a help to the bond market."
But others said Mr. Perot's departure seemingly improved President Bush's re-election chances and appeared to eliminate the possibility that the November race would be decided in the House of Representatives next January.
After being buffeted for much of the session, market participants seemed to shrug off a report from the Federal Reserve Board showing that two of the three measures of the nation's money supply it tracks on a weekly basis rose during the week ended July 6.
The $11.2 billion rise in M-1 and the $8.9 billion in M-2 were slightly larger than expected. At the same time, however, analysts said they had not expected M-3, the broadest money measure, to decline by $7.2 billion.
Despite the weekly increase, money supply growth remains extremely weak.
For the month of June, M-1 fell by $2.4 billion, M-2 dropped by $10.7 billion and M-3 fell by $15.1 billion.
Few analysts are expecting a pickup in money growth anytime soon. They said continued weakness would afford the Federal Reserve the opportunity to ease monetary policy again.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields on 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds from 4/92 to 7/92 (The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PRICES OF TREASURY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICES OF TREASURY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); MONEY SUPPLY (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%); HOUSING STARTS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



536 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Housing Starts But a Better Job Outlook

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 16

 BODY:
Housing starts fell 3.2 percent in June, the Government said today, but analysts expect modest improvement starting in July because of the lowest mortgage rates in two decades.
In one of the few bright spots in recently bleak reports, the Government also reported that first-time applications for unemployment benefits fell in early July to the lowest level in nine months. And a four-week moving average, which analysts prefer because it evens out the often volatile weekly numbers, also fell. 
 Nationally, starts of new homes and apartments totaled 1.17 million at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, down from 1.21 million in May, with construction down in every region except for the West, the Commerce Department said.
 
Impact of Lower Rates Seen
 "We have to realize that these June figures are prediscount-rate-cut figures, and in the coming months we should see substantial improvement," said Jean Sundrla of Evans Economics, a Washington forecasting firm.
On July 2, the Federal Reserve slashed both the discount rate, which it charges commercial banks for loans, and the Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans.
Mortgage rates, which had been falling gradually, immediately began to drop sharply. By last Friday, 30-year fixed-rate mortgages were averaging 8.13 percent, down from their 9.03 percent peak in March and the lowest since July 1973.
 
Germany Bucks the Trend
 Meanwhile, the Bundesbank, Germany's equivalent of the Federal Reserve, raised its discount rate today to a record 8.75 percent from 8 percent, in part to combat inflation.
The move came just 10 days after President Bush and other leaders of the world's seven major industrial nations held a summit meeting in Munich, Germany, at which they pledged to cooperate in international economic matters.
The Bundesbank action could curb United States exports, since the move would tend to slow the German economy and its ability to buy American products.
Even with the lower mortgage rates in the United States, most analysts expect any improvement in housing to be modest and well below the 1.7 million annual level of starts in 1983 and 1984, the years following the previous recession.
"Until people feel better about the economy and the job market, housing is going to be held down," said David F. Seiders, an economist for the National Association of Home Builders.
The Labor Department suggested some improvement in employment during the week that ended July 4. It said first-time claims for jobless benefits dropped by 15,000, to 401,000, down from 416,000 a week earlier and the lowest level since claims totaled 401,000 during the week that ended Oct. 5.
The four-week moving average dipped to 414,500 in the period that ended July 4, from 415,750 during the period ending the previous week.
The 11 percent increase in housing starts in May was the largest advance since starts jumped 19 percent in February 1991 as the housing industry began to climb out of its recession.
But the May increase failed to recoup a revised 19 percent plunge in April, even steeper than the earlier estimate of 17.3 percent.
"We wound up the second quarter well below the first," Mr. Seiders said. "It seems clear that moving into the third quarter, both the economy and the housing market lack momentum."
 
Region by Region
 Applications for building permits -- often a barometer of future activity -- fell 1.3 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.04 million. It was the fourth straight decline.
Regionally, the West posted a 7.1 percent advance in starts, to a 303,000 annual rate, after gaining 8.4 percent a month earlier.
But starts fell elsewhere. They were down 9.5 percent in the Midwest, to a 277,000 rate. They fell 5.7 percent in the South, to a 463,000 rate. And they were off eight-tenths of a percent in the Northeast, to a 124,000 rate.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Housing Construction" shows new private housing starts and permits authorized during the months from 1/91 to 6/92 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; HOUSING STARTS; MORTGAGES; RATES; INTEREST (MONEY) INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); HOUSING STARTS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (79%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); INTERBANK LENDING (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



537 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Presidential Politics Adds To Fall in Gold and Silver

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Gold and silver prices fell yesterday because the decision by Ross Perot not to run for President as an independent candidate reduced the uncertainty surrounding the Presidential race.
"The market's gut reaction to the Perot news was bearish," one trader said. "The feeling seemed to be that with him out of the race, Bush's chances of staying in the White House increase, and he's seen as less threatening to the economy than Clinton." Gov. Bill Clinton won the Democratic Presidential nomination on Wednesday. 
 Precious metals have often been seen as a haven during political and economic uncertainty.
Gold also weakened yesterday because the dollar fell after Germany's central bank tightened monetary policy by raising its discount rate three-quarters of a point, to 8.75 percent.
On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for delivery in August fell $1.50, to $353.20 an ounce, and silver for September dropped 3.2 cents, to $3.928 an ounce.
Platinum prices also tumbled amid signs of revived diplomatic efforts in South Africa and a general feeling that the rise in platinum tied to political unrest may have been overdone.
One analyst said involvement by the United Nations in racial turmoil in South Africa, the world's leading producer of platinum, and the possibility that Cyrus R. Vance, former Secretary of State, might act as a mediator, could head off a general strike scheduled for Aug. 3.
Platinum for October tumbled $6.30, to $383.50 an ounce, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Oil prices closed slightly firmer after a mixed showing that reflected a dearth of market-moving news.
Crude oil for August gained 8 cents, to $21.79 a barrel, after trading as low as $21.65, and gasoline for August advanced 1.04 cents, to 60.95 cents a gallon. Some investors bought gasoline contracts against sales of heating oil, causing August heating oil to fall 0.22 cent, to 60.12 cents a gallon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE OF NEW YORK COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; SILVER; PRICES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL (88%); METALS MARKETS (79%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



538 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 16.21, After Jump on Perot News

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average finishing up 16.21 points at 3,361.63. The average had spurted 18 points after Ross Perot suddenly withdrew from the Presidential race, but that rally faded quickly.
Analysts said overriding concerns about the economy and earnings had tempered the market's enthusiasm over the removal of uncertainty that had been brought on by the three-way race. 
 Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was an active 206.9 million shares, compared with 208.3 million on Wednesday. Increasing issues outnumbered losing declining stocks by 877 to 820.
Bradley Turner, chairman of McDonald & Company's investment policy committee, said while the day's political fireworks raised eyebrows, they did not significantly move markets.
 
Traders Watch Earnings
 "Right now, earnings and the economy are in the driver's seat," he said.
Robert Stovall, president of Stovall/21st Advisers, said: "The big uncertainty was dumping the election decision into the House of Representatives. Now, that has been removed, and we will have a final decision in November."
Mexican stocks, which had been battered on Mr. Perot's stance against a free-trade agreement for Mexico, Canada and the United States, were the most visible beneficiaries of the news.
Otherwise, given that no real themes emerged apart from the gains in Mexican shares, "stocks are really just responding very quickly and decisively to earnings surprises," said Hersh Cohen, president of Shearson Asset Management.
Stocks may also have been dampened by the discount rate increase yesterday morning by Germany's Bundesbank. Bonds fell on the news but recovered.
The 30-year Treasury bond rose 6/32 , to 10416/32 , and the yield slipped to 7.60 percent, from 7.61 percent on Wednesday.
 
What Germany's Doing
 Ron Clarke, managing director in equities for Aetna Capital Management, said the stock market's main concerns seemed to be the German rate increase and the American economy. The Bundesbank raised the rate to 8.75 percent from 8 percent.
Mexican shares that trade in the United States gained on the Perot news included Telefonos de Mexico, up 1 1/2, to 49 5/8; ICA, up 7/8, to 18 3/4; the Mexico Fund, ahead 2 3/8, to 25 7/8, and the Mexico Equity and Income Fund, up 1, to 15 5/8.
Centocor rose 1 3/4, to 16 1/4. Eli Lilly said it would provide up to $125 million to the diagnostic-test maker Centocor, including an investment of $50 million for just under a 5 percent stake.
Shares of Sierra Semiconductor tumbled 3 3/4, to 12 1/4. Analysts said the company cautioned them about third-quarter earnings.
Shares of Chemical Banking fell 1 1/4, to 35 5/8; Boatmen's Bancshares lost 2 3/8, to 50 3/4, and Bank of New York was up 1/8, to 40. Merrill Lynch lowered its ratings on all three.
The Standard & Poor's composite index of 500 stocks rose 0.44 point, to 417.54. The American Stock Exchange index rose 1.47, to 388.34.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index of all listed common stocks rose 0.29, to 229.49. The average price per share rose 4 cents.
The Nasdaq index rose 0.72 point, to 576.19.
The Wilshire Associates Equity Index, the market value of Big Board, American Exchange and Nasdaq issues, was 4,022.968, up 5.320, or 0.13 percent.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (51%); LLY (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD INVESTMENTS INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); AETNA CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT LTD (53%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (52%); ELI LILLY & CO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); BONDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS ROBERT STOVALL (61%); ROSS PEROT (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



539 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
New President Named For Hewlett-Packard

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 16

 BODY:
The Hewlett-Packard Company ended more than a year of suspense today when it chose an aggressive computer industry executive, Lewis E. Platt, to succeed John A. Young as president of the Silicon Valley-based electronics company on Nov. 1.
Mr. Platt, who has been given high marks for masterminding the company's revitalized computer business, has been mentioned frequently as a candidate to succeed Mr. Young, 60 years old, who will retire at the end of October after 14 years as Hewlett-Packard's president and chief executive. 
 Mr. Platt, who is 51, will take over the leadership of a company that has for several decades been emblematic of Silicon Valley's informal and engineering-oriented business style. He had previously been executive vice president and head of the company's computer systems organization, which accounts for nearly 75 percent of Hewlett-Packard's revenue.
The company also announced today that Dean O. Morton, also 60, would retire as chief operating officer and would not be replaced. David Packard, 79, co-founder of the company, will remain chairman. Two other Hewlett-Packard executives were promoted to new responsibilities. They are Richard A. Hackborn, 55, executive vice president and head of the company's computer products organization, which is responsible for the company's very successful laser and inkjet printers, and Willem P. Roelandts, 47, vice president and general manager of the networked systems group, which runs the company's communications businesses.
 
Difficult Choice of Successors
 Both Mr. Platt and Mr. Hackborn have been groomed as successors to take the top spot at Hewlett-Packard and industry analysts said yesterday that the choice had been a difficult one.
"The company has one of the deepest benches in the world," said Michael Murphy, editor of the California High Technology Stock Letter. "But they are handing the torch to the right guy."
Despite industry speculation about the succession process, Mr. Platt said that there had been no corporate infighting.
"It wasn't nearly as exciting as the press characterized it," he said. "Dick and I have worked together closely since 1985 and we talked about our strengths and weakness, but there was no feeling of internal competition between the two of us."
In turning around Hewlett-Packard's computer business Mr. Platt has developed a reputation as a hard-charging executive and has made the company a factor across the entire range of computing systems from portable handheld systems to the mainframe market.
"When people see Lew Platt ascending to the presidency it sends a clear message that being successful at H-P now means demonstrating that you are aggressive," said Robert Herwick, an analyst at Hambrecht & Quist. "You have to wear flashier suits and take a tougher line, and don't be afraid to knock on doors where H-P hasn't been seen before."
Mr. Platt was chosen after a two-year search carried out by a company succession committee, Mr. Young said in a telephone interview. Mr. Young will leave the company's board of directors, but will remain available in a consulting role as needed.
He said that he had not decided on personal plans past his retirement and planned to take a number of months to consider different options. Mr. Young has been active on national policy and economic issues in the past. He was named chairman of President Ronald Reagan's Commission on Industrial Competitiveness in 1983.
Mr. Young also established an industry-sponsored Council on Competitiveness in Washington. The council has no connection with Vice President Dan Quayle's taxpayer-financed competitiveness council. As Hewlett-Packard chief since 1978, Mr. Young attained a reputation for integrity and good management that was described in "In Search of Excellence," the 1980's management best seller by Thomas J. Peters and Robert H. Waterman.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lewis E. Platt, left, will succeed John A. Young, right, as president of the Hewlett-Packard Company in November. (Hewlett-Packard)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (96%); HAMBRECHT & QUIST CALIFORNIA (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (92%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SUCCESSION PLANS (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: PLATT, LEWIS E; YOUNG, JOHN A; MARKOFF, JOHN ANN LIVERMORE (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



540 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
A.T.&T. Net Up 3.6%, as Nynex Profit Rises 13.9%

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
A.T.& T., the world's largest telecommunications company, reported yesterday that net income in the second quarter grew a scant 3.6 percent, to $961 million, while revenue rose less than 1 percent, to $15.85 billion.
Meanwhile, the Nynex Corporation, which provides local-telephone service for New York State and New England, said yesterday that second-quarter earnings rose 13.9 percent, to $331.1 million, or $1.62 a share. The sharp rise was partly the result of a one-time credit from a change in a cellular telephone contract. 
 Following are details of the companies' results:
 
A.T.&T.
 The American Telephone and Telegraph Company said the poor quarter-to-quarter comparison was misleading. Last year's quarterly net was helped by a one-time gain of $87 million from the sale of stock held in Sun Microsystems Inc., a computer maker. Without that one-time gain last year, A.T.& T. quarterly net this year would have been up more than 14 percent, despite the economic slump that has cut into the company's domestic and global markets.
Analysts said the overall results were within their expectations. Shares of A.T.& T., the most widely held stock in the country, closed at $44.875, up 75 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Sales declined for the huge call-switching computers bought by foreign governments. But A.T.& T. reported strong trends in other operations, including increased call volume for domestic and international long-distance calls and good results at its AT&T Universal Card Services unit, whose consumer credit card can be used both to charge purchases at shops and restaurants and also for A.T.& T. long-distance service.
Revenue from leasing and financial services, a large part of which is the Universal Card, rose 42.9 percent, to $425 million, from $298 million a year earlier.
The largest part of A.T.& T.'s revenue, more than 60 percent, comes from domestic and international long distance. Revenue from long-distance calls grew 2.2 percent, to $9.85 billion, with minutes of use, a critical measure of performance, growing more than 6 percent. By contrast, the struggling Sprint Corporation, the nation's third-largest long-distance carrier, reported earlier this week that its call volume rose about 3 percent.
Analysts say A.T.& T.'s business-customer market is growing much faster than the company's residential market, probably in the range of 10 to 12 percent volume growth on the business side, compared with just 2 percent to 3 percent for residential customers.
Sales of A.T.& T.'s telecommunications network products and systems dropped 12.2 percent, to $1.7 billion, A.T.& T. said. Industrywide, equipment sales -- especially for giant switching computers like A.T.& T.'s 5ESS switch -- have declined for all of the world's telecommunications equipment companies.
 
Nynex
 Second-quarter revenue for Nynex, which is based in White Plains, dropped 2.3 percent, to $3.28 billion, partly because of the discontinuation of a chain of computer stores the company owned.
The largest part of Nynex's revenue, or more than 85 percent, is in local-telephone business. Quarterly revenue for this segment rose only eight-tenths of 1 percent, to $2.82 billion, while operating income rose 5.6 percent, to $664 million. Telephone access lines rose 1.2 percent, to 15.5 million lines.
Cellular telephone operating income rose 24 percent, to $21.7 million, while revenue rose 7.5 percent, to $89.9 million. All the $4.2 million gain reflected a $6 million credit from a "contract modification" that stemmed losses at the unit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (92%); S (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (72%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (69%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (69%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (69%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (69%); SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T); NYNEX CORP AT&T INC (92%); NYNEX CORP (72%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (69%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); UNIVERSAL CARD SERVICES CORP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T); NYNEX CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (78%); MARKET SIZE (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); COMPUTER MAKERS (69%); RETAILERS (68%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



541 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar in a Broad Decline; German Rate Rise a Factor

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell against most currencies yesterday as the German central bank raised a key interest rate and Ross Perot withdrew from the race for the Presidency.
The dollar fell after the Bundesbank in Germany said it was raising its discount rate, but later rallied after Mr. Perot announced his withdrawal. 
 Stephen Flanagan, a vice president at Mitsubishi Bank Ltd. in New York, said that because the market had anticipated Germany's move for a week, there was not a significant change for the dollar. The Bundesbank announced it had raised the discount rate three-quarters of a percentage point, to 8.75 percent.
Robert Ryan, a senior trader with the Bank of New York, also said the German bank's increase was expected because Germany's economy was under pressure.
"It's a major gesture by the Bundesbank but it may not have a significant impact on the dollar in the longer term," Mr. Ryan said. "It's where do we go from here?"
 
U.S. Data Have Little Effect
 In late European trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.4740 German marks, down from 1.4770. At the close in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.4780 marks, down from 1.4810 late Wednesday.
The dollar later rallied after the Perot announcement because the political picture is clearer and Congress would not be left to make the decision on the country's next leader, Mr. Ryan said.
Traders made no mention of the day's new economic reports, a slight decline in jobless claims for early July and sluggishness in new housing starts.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell to 124.93 Japanese yen, from 125.32 yen at Wednesday's close. Later, in London, it rose to 125.35 yen. The dollar closed at 125.35 yen at the end of the New York session, up from 125.10 late Wednesday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.9375, from $1.9260 late Wednesday. The pound was trading at $1.9395 at closing in New York, more expensive than $1.9225 late Wednesday.
Other closing prices in New York, compared with late Wednesday, included: 1.3285 Swiss francs, down from 1.3395; 1,121.50 Italian lire, down from 1,128.00; 4.9910 French francs, down from 5.0050; 1.19165 Canadian dollars, down from 1.19335.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Wednesday, were: 1.3345 Swiss francs, down from 1.3360; 4.9775 French francs, down from 4.9915; 1.6625 Dutch guilders, down from 1.6658; 1,118.00 Italian lire, down from 1,124.25, and 1.1908 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1927.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (72%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (72%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); NEW YORK (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GERMANY GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; DISCOUNT RATE; CREDIT; INTEREST (MONEY); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (88%); BRITISH POUND (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS ROBERT RYAN (80%); ROSS PEROT (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



542 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Worth His Weight In Gold

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN

 BODY:
AS a young boy growing up in Silsbee, Tex., Mark Henry was hard-pressed to envision a time when being big wouldn't be enough.
By the fourth grade, Henry was 5 feet 5 inches tall and weighed 255 pounds; by his senior year at Silsbee High School, he was a 6-3, 360-pound offensive lineman.
Then the sky fell in when Henry scored below the 700 on the Scholastic Aptitude Test required for a freshman to compete while on an athletic scholarship. 
 In the past, low scores hadn't stopped colleges from gobbling up athletes with breathtaking physical ability and academic deficiencies. But Henry was caught in the crossfire of academic reform. Gradually the stunning reality set in: size was not enough.
No college was willing to take a chance. "One coach said, 'We can't take the risk on somebody with low scores when we can take somebody else with a higher score that as good or almost as good,' " Henry recalled. "I just told him 'In the future, you'll see that you missed out.' "
Two years later, football's loss is weight lifting's gain.
Henry's meteoric rise in the sport will take him this weekend to Barcelona, Spain, as a member of the United States weight lifting team, competing as a superheavyweight.
After graduation Henry, who has lifted weights throughout high school and was a three-time state weight lifting champion, was introduced to Olympic-style weight lifting by a University of Texas kinesiology professor who had seen him in the 1990 state high school power lifting championships.
A year later, when Henry walked into the Olympic weight-training center for the first time, Lyn Jones, the national coaching coordinator for the weight lifting federation, took one look at his 6-3, 407-pound frame and said that Henry was the "find of the century."
Since then, Henry, 21 years old, has dropped to a less dramatic 367 pounds. And just as he discovered in high school that size alone was not enough, he has learned that power, unaccompanied by technique and discipline, is useless.
"Sixty-five percent of weight lifting is mental," Henry said. "In football, you focus on being aggressive, intimidating people, hitting people to make them shy away from you.
"In weight lifting, you have to control that anger, focus it on the bar. The bar has a force to it -- you can put it over your head and get under it; sometimes you won't be able to hold the weight because you'll be scared. You learn not to be afraid -- you learn to tighten up when you feel like the bar's going to come down, and go up and meet it. It's a mental process."
In losing football, Henry said he gained an opportunity for growth he may not have achieved otherwise.
He has also been exposed to sports that largely have remained outside his reach and of many athletes raised in the inner city. Henry wishes there was a way to divert some of that waiting talent to other areas within the Olympic movement.
"I wish people in the federation could travel around the country and just pick up the best athletes," he said. "There's an Olympic sport called team handball. It's like a cross between soccer and basketball. I was thinking about going back home, seeing if we could raise some money, get a couple brothers off the street who aren't doing anything -- who wanted to play basketball but couldn't make it -- bringing them back here and banging. Within a year or two, they could be a top contending team.
That sounds good in theory, but Henry said it won't happen soon. Many of the Olympic sports, with no scholarship system, no means of providing training, development and income for athletes from economically disadvantaged areas, are luxury items.
"A lot of the better athletes don't have the time or the means to go into a sport that's not a money sport," he said. "So a lot of the guys go into football and basketball because they want to make money fast.
"I would have probably been the same way. The only reason I didn't go into football was because somebody told me 'No.' "
Instead, Silsbee, Tex., is going to Barcelona on Henry's broad shoulders. Henry said that the most satisfying aspect of the trip is that he never gave up on himself.
"Even as a kid, my two goals were to go to the Olympics and play professional football," he said. "But I wasn't the smartest one in my class. I wasn't the strongest, or the fastest, so teachers spent a lot of time telling me what I couldn't do, what I wasn't going to do. When I go back to Silsbee, I tell kids, 'You can do what you want to do.' I tell them, don't let people take your dreams away.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Henry. (Duomo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (74%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: BARCELONA, SPAIN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (74%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (54%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1992); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WEIGHT LIFTING WEIGHTLIFTING (91%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (72%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); KINESIOLOGY (70%); 

PERSON: HENRY, MARK (WEIGHT LIFTER); RHODEN, WILLIAM C MARK HENRY (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



543 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: A Breakthrough on Mexican Trade

 BODY:
"We are entering the top of the ninth inning on negotiations," said President Bush after meeting with President Carlos Salinas de Gortari of Mexico before Tuesday night's All-Star game. The words were casual but the accomplishment is not. The two countries have settled many of the issues blocking a free trade agreement that American exporters and investors will find enticing.
Mexico has agreed to open up its banking and securities industries to U.S. investors by the year 2000 and has accepted provisions that would prevent Japanese and other foreign manufacturers from gaining unfair access to the U.S. market via Mexico. Meanwhile Mr. Bush is making good on his promise to push through a treaty that would help Mexico and Canada, the other participant. 
 By eliminating most trade barriers, the pact would allow each country to specialize in what it produces best, cutting prices everywhere. It is expected to create about 130,000 more jobs in export industries than it will eliminate in import industries, like automobiles and apparel.
Compare Mr. Bush's good deed with the protectionist demagogy of organized labor and Congressional opponents. The critics spin frightening stories of factory owners rushing south to exploit dollar-a-day Mexican workers. But the Mexican economy is too small -- a 20th the size of the United States' -- to pose a serious threat. Besides, low wages don't explain trade patterns. If they did, American manufacturers would be rushing to Sri Lanka, not Mexico.
Bill Clinton has been generally favorable toward the free trade pact, though he soft-pedaled his support during the early primaries. Left unresolved is whether he's prepared to take on powerful Democrats who oppose the treaty.
The best trade pact is universal and non-discriminatory, which is why the Uruguay Round of trade talks is so important. But Mexico and Canada are neighbors and warrant special treatment.
The free trade pact will inevitably bulk large in the Presidential campaign. On this score, Mr. Bush gets high marks. The jury is still out on Mr. Clinton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SRI LANKA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS.COM INC (57%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS EXPORT GROUP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SRI LANKA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS; TREATIES; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); BASEBALL (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1992



544 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Bethlehem Steel In a Long Battle

BYLINE: By Jonathan P. Hicks

 BODY:
WHEN the Bethlehem Steel Corporation announced earlier this week that it would report a $64 million loss for the second quarter, it caused some nervousness among investors who had generally perceived the fortunes of the nation's second-largest steel producer, after USX, to be improving.
After all, the company's losses had narrowed over the last year or so, and Bethlehem was laying off fewer workers and closing fewer plants. 
 But the $64 million loss made it clear that Bethlehem's problems persist. In part, that loss results from a litigation charge. The company said its results would include a $25 million charge to increase its reserves for loss contingencies in connection with an appeal it lost last month before the Supreme Court of Kentucky over a longstanding dispute over the ownership of a coal mine in eastern Kentucky. But even without that charge, Bethlehem said, the company would have suffered a net loss of $39 million, weaker results than the $29 million net loss in the second quarter of last year.
Of course, the company and all American steel producers are suffering from continued low demand. Cars and appliances are using less and less steel from year to year, a trend that has been under way for decades.
But what is clearly hurting Bethlehem most, analysts and company officials contend, is the continued price competition among steel companies desperate to hold on to market share and customers. The average price of the sheet steel that goes into cars and appliances is now about $300 a ton, roughly the same price it has been for a year and far below the $450-a-ton price of the summer of 1988.
But appearances may be deceiving, analysts further contend. Although Bethlehem has problems aplenty, its competitive position has been steadily improving. The company lost $10 for every ton of steel it shipped in the first quarter of this year, a far narrower loss than the $21 a ton it lost in the fourth quarter of last year and the loss of $22 a ton in the third quarter of 1991. Even the USX Corporation, widely regarded as the most efficient among the nation's big steel companies, also had a $10-a-ton loss in the first quarter, according to industry analysts. In contrast, in the first quarter there was a $32-a-ton loss at Inland Steel and a $46-a-ton loss at Armco.
"If you look at their financial performance, they really haven't been doing that poorly in comparison with the average of the big six steelmakers," said Christopher Plummer, an analyst with Resource Strategies Inc., an economic consulting form in Philadelphia. "They seem to always have some unusual items that affect the net income figure, but have a lot going for them. They have trimmed their work force and cut their labor costs."
Other analysts contend that the company has forcefully brought in new technology. "The company has invested in a lot of good technology and has been looking for new approaches in steelmaking," said John Jacobson, an analyst with AUS Consultants in Philadelphia. "They have been adopting new technology in both their plant at Sparrows Point, Md., and at Burns Harbor, in Indiana. At the same time, there is clearly an effort to have more decision making at the plant level. The mills are doing a better job of making quality products and they are being more and more recognized for having efficient mills and production quality."
Still, many analysts, including Mr. Jacobson, suggest that while Bethlehem's problems have been exaggerated, the company still has to pare down the layers of management. "They are moving in the right direction, but compared with the mini-mills, they are inefficient," Mr. Jacobson said. "Their biggest problem has been in taking forceful efforts to improve their own operations. They have spent too much time in the past by focusing on external factors, such as the trappings of success. They have always had a lot of layers of management. You don't layer upon layer to get things done.
Also, the company still makes some steel products -- structural steel and rail, for example -- that other large steelmakers have abandoned and left to the mini-mills, which make steel from scrap with smaller, lower-paid work forces.
Mr. Plummer also noted that Bethlehem was still saddled with a mountainous unfunded pension liability. "While competitors like Inland and USX are in a positive situation in terms of their pension liabilities, the unfunded pension liabilities at Bethlehem add on quite a bit to their real cost of labor," he said.
Still, the company, which was widely rumored several years ago to be a candidate for a Chapter 11 filing, has come a long way in overcoming its old image of thick layered bureacracy and luxurious executive golf courses. "They are taking their cost- cutting and modernization responsibilities more seriously," Mr. Jacobson said. "But then, to survive in this environment, they don't really have any choice."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (84%); X (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (93%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS332322 SHEET METAL WORK MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (93%); MARATHON OIL CORP (84%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (63%); RYERSON HOLDING CORP (51%); SUPREME COURT OF KENTUCKY (56%); SUPREME COURT OF KENTUCKY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP SUPREME COURT OF KENTUCKY (56%); SUPREME COURT OF KENTUCKY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STEEL AND IRON; FINANCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES COMPANY LOSSES (92%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); LITIGATION (70%); MARKET SHARE (69%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P JOHN JACOBSON (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1992



545 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 17, 1992

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk; The Campaign

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: THE PARTY'S OVER -- BILL CLINTON;
Democratic Team Opens by Appealing to Middle Class

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL

 BODY:
Gov. Bill Clinton and his running mate, Senator Al Gore, opened their general election campaign last night with a stern attack on President Bush's economic policies and a vision for a Democratic administration that would have as its priorities jobs, health care, AIDS research, the environment and political reform.
 In an address intended to dispel the impression that he has character flaws that might disqualify him from the Presidency, the Arkansas Governor spoke of his background as a fatherless child and of his vision of a government based on the values of community, responsibility and compassion. 
I end tonight where it all began for me," Mr. Clinton concluded his speech, evoking the small-town virtues of his birthplace, Hope, Ark. "I still believe in a place called Hope."
 Then the balloons fell and the delegates waved banners, celebrating with the quadrennial burst of unity and enthusiasm that Democrats display whenever they feel the Presidency is within reach once again. Along with their nominee, they chanted, "We can do it!"
 At the conclusion of his acceptance speech, Mr. Gore took an additional turn around the podium, dancing arm in arm with his wife, Tipper.
 Mr. Clinton accused the Bush Administration of giving lip service to those values for political purposes but forgetting them when it came to governing. "Frankly, I'm fed up with politicians in Washington lecturing the rest of us about 'family values,' " he said. "Our families have values. But our government doesn't." [Transcript, page A14.]
 Mr. Clinton asserted a Democratic claim to the issues that the Republicans have monopolized for three elections, even citing passages from the Pledge of Allegiance as if in a defiant challenge to President Bush to use patriotism against him in the manner the Republicans employed so successfully with former Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, the 1988 nominee.
 "In the name of those who do the work, pay the taxes, raise the kids and play by the rules -- in the name of the hard-working Americans who make up our forgotten middle class -- I proudly accept your nomination," Mr. Clinton said. "I am a product of that middle class. And when I am your President, you will be forgotten no more."
 
Demonstration of Optimism
 The delegates, packed shoulder to shoulder on the convention floor, cheered Mr. Clinton at nearly every line, demonstrating with their exuberance the optimism that has overtaken Democrats who see new opportunities in the withdrawal of Ross Perot from the Presidential race. They seemed ready to accept what Mr. Clinton had come to say.
 "I think the average citizen has a false impression of him," said Delia Camacho, a delegate from Texas who teaches kindergarten in El Paso.
 Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore, who today will begin a six-day bus trip that will stop in seven states, used emotional appeals, humor and Biblical references to pursue their mission of redefining Mr. Clinton as a politician who is not only strong, but also worthy of trust.
 "I think he needs to say who he is," said Marian Wright Edelman, a friend of the Clintons and chairwoman of the Children's Defense Fund, as she roamed the convention floor last night. "People have not understood the man's background. We need to know he's a poor boy and not someone to the manor born."
 Saying the middle class had been victimized by 12 years of Republican administrations, Mr. Clinton declared that only a new President could rescue the country from economic decline.
 Mr. Clinton said he could be the bridge to disillusioned supporters of Ross Perot, who dropped out of the race yesterday. He criticized President Bush's "failed economic theory" and, implicitly, a set of policies that he said had failed to help the middle class.
 "People want change, but Government is in the way," Mr. Clinton said. "It has been hijacked by privileged, private interests. It has forgotten who really pays the bills around here. It's taking more of your money and giving you less in service."
 The speech, and especially the 14-minute biographical film that stressed his small-town roots, also took direct aim at the candidate's greatest weakness in the Democratic primary campaign.
 
Centrist Themes
 In the film, Mr. Clinton spoke, haltingly, of the reaction of his 12-year-old daughter, Chelsea, to reports early in the campaign that he had been unfaithful to his wife. Chelsea, he said, said only, "I'm glad that you're my parents."
 In calling for a "new covenant" between the American people and their Government, Mr. Clinton returned to a favorite theme for centrist Democrats who sense a chance to defeat a Republican incumbent this year.
 "We offer our people a new choice based on old values," Mr. Clinton said. "We offer opportunity. And we demand responsibility. The choice we offer is not conservative or liberal, Democratic or Republican. It is different. It is new. And it will work."
 Although Mr. Clinton graduated from Georgetown University and Yale Law School and was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, he emphasized his humble roots.
 "My grandfather had a grade-school education," he said. "But in that country store, he taught me more about equality in the eyes of the Lord than all my professors at Georgetown, more about the intrinsic worth of every individual than all the philosophers at Oxford, and he taught me more about the need for equal justice than all the jurists at Yale Law School."
 Mr. Gore also stressed his family background, saying: "I was 8 years old when my father's name was placed in nomination for the Vice Presidency before the Democratic Convention of 1956. Growing up, I watched him stand courageously for civil rights and economic opportunity and a Government that worked for ordinary people."
 Mr. Gore began by poking fun at one of Mr. Clinton's passions. "I've been dreaming of this moment since I was a kid growing up in Tennessee: that one day, I'd have the chance to come here to Madison Square Garden and be the warm-up act for Elvis."
 Mr. Clinton sought to head off any Republican plans to use Mr. Clinton's record as Governor of Arkansas against him, pointing out that, unlike the 1988 nominee, Governor Dukakis, he would not sell himself as a leader who had singlehandedly brought prosperity to his state.
 "There is no Arkansas miracle," he said, "but there are a lot of miraculous people. Good people, pulling together. Because of them, our schools are better, our wages are higher, our factories are busier, our water is cleaner and our budget is balanced. We're moving ahead.
 "And so I say to those who would criticize Arkansas: Come on down," he said. "Especially if you're from Washington, come to Arkansas."
 Mr. Clinton used the word "change" repeatedly and emphasized active words like "seize," "move" or "excite," intending to convey a new energy and purpose.
 
Retelling His Story
 Mr. Clinton and his aides have worried in recent weeks that the positive side of their candidate's story is not widely known, and they made clear last night that his personal background would become a theme of the campaign, countering Republican challenges on the subject of family values.
 "The future entered my life the night our daughter, Chelsea, was born," Mr. Clinton said. "As I stood in that delivery room, I was overcome with the thought that God had given me a blessing my own father never knew: the chance to hold my child in my arms."
 Mr. Clinton credited his mother, Virginia Kelley, his wife, Hillary, and his grandfather for teaching him about caring for women, children and minorities, and he portrayed himself as a man who identified with those who are neglected or burdened.
 "I was raised to believe that the American dream was built on rewarding hard work," he said. "But we have seen the folks in Washington turn that American ethic on its head."
 The film that introduced Mr. Clinton last night, a collage of images of his life and friends, was created by Linda Bloodworth-Thomason, the television producer who is a family friend and creator of the program "Designing Women."
 It was deliberately nonpolitical, serving instead to set the stage for the triumphant entrance of the nominee and give Mr. Clinton the opportunity to tell his own story in his own words.
 At its outset, Mr. Clinton recalled the longwinded address he delivered from the convention podium four years ago, an address that earned him ridicule at the time.
 "I ran for President for one reason and one reason only," he joked. "I wanted to come back and finish that speech I started four years ago."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Al Gore and Gov. Bill Clinton on the podium after Mr. Clinton gave his speech accepting the Democratic nomination for President. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Virginia Kelley, Gov. Bill Clinton's mother, and his half brother, Roger, listening to Mr. Clinton's speech. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); William Figueroa, for whom Vice President Dan Quayle misspelled potato, leading the Pledge of Allegiance last night. (Associated Press); Delegates cheering on the convention floor last night during the grand finale at Madison Square Garden. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); AIDS & HIV (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORE, ALBERT JR
(SEN) BILL CLINTON (95%); AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1992



546 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Ross Perot;
Advisers Describe Perot Disillusion

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, July 17

 BODY:
Officials of what was the Ross Perot campaign painted a picture of the Texas billionaire today as a candidate so disdainful of traditional politics that he resisted spending money on polls or campaign commercials, even as he spent lavishly to finance grass-roots volunteer groups.
"It wasn't that he was unwilling to spend money," said one campaign insider. "He didn't want to spend money on things that mattered." 
 These campaign insiders described Mr. Perot as a man obsessed with his image who began to lose interest in the contest when faced with a barrage of critical news reports. Some also said he lost heart when he began to realize what his advisers told him might be necessary to address the country's economic difficulties, especially the Federal budget deficit, something he once said he could solve "without breaking a sweat."
 
To Tell the Truth
 "When you look at the hard economic problems facing this country, if you tell the truth about it and propose a specific plan to deal with it, then you run away a lot of voters," James Squires, the senior spokesman for the Perot Petition Committee, said on the NBC "Today" program this morning, the day after Mr. Perot said he would not be a candidate for President. "And I think the prospect for that, though there were many factors involved, had a lot to do with Mr. Perot's decision."
The campaign's issues department, headed by John P. White, a former official in the Carter Administration, had developed a complete economic platform that Mr. White said was scheduled to be unveiled in two weeks. Neither he nor other Perot officials would describe the elements of the economic plan, but they said that as the day of the announcement drew near Mr. Perot became wary over how it would be received.
"Ross was continually worried, as we got closer to announcing the platform, about the magnitude of the problem and how easily it could be solved," said a campaign official who, like most others, demanded anonymity.
This evening Mr. Perot raised the possibility of leaving his name on the ballot in the 24 states where he has qualified and allowing petition campaigns to go forward in states where he is not yet certified.
Interviewed on "Larry King Live," he said he said that, if his grass-roots volunteers asked him, he would remain on the ballot to help build a national movement that could provide the "swing vote" in Congressional and Senate campaign as well as the Presidential race.
 
Don't Call Headquarters
 "What we're now discussing with the state chairmen is even more all-encompassing because it goes to endorsing senatorial and Congressional candidate," Mr. Perot said on the Cable News Network program. He added that if the Presidential candidates did not come up with an economic plan that satisfied his volunteers, his name would be on the ballot as a protest.
Mr. Perot said he would "help and support" the effort "in any way they want me to." But later in the program he suggested that volunteers who want to enlist in this effort not call his Dallas headquarters. "It is far more efficient now to sign up with local groups," he said. The telephone bank at Mr. Perot's headquarters is scheduled to be shut down Wednesday.
Mr. Perot also said on the program that as he became more knowledgeable about the country's economic problems and their possible solutions, he realized that merely running for President would not be the answer. "The more deeply I got into it, that's when I realized it has to be the House, the Senate and the White House," he said.
"I have not gone away," Mr. Perot said in an effort to reassure his volunteers that he would work with them if they remained unified. "I will stay with them right through the end."
"But I have concluded I should not be the candidate," he added.
 
Calls From the Wounded
 Midway through the broadcast, Mr. Perot began getting phone calls from disappointed supporters.
"I would like to start out saying how much I hurt," a woman from Cleveland said, her voice breaking. "The tears have not stopped."
Mr. Perot responded, "I do care for you and I love you." A group of leaders of Mr. Perot's grass-roots campaign has traveled to Dallas, where they hope to meet with Mr. Perot on Saturday to try to persuade him to remain in the race.
Beyond Mr. Perot's reluctance to put forward the economic plan he had commissioned, campaign officials say Mr. Perot's effort was listing badly, and he rejected advice on ways to right it. Some aides say he never realized that much of his support was soft. They noted that much of the support he enjoyed from people who are usually Democrats began to erode during that party's convention. They said they thought that unless he changed strategy, the same would have happened with his Republican support.
"We thought his base was somewhere in the neighborhood of 17 to 18 percent," said a campaign official. "Anything above that was people flirting with his candidacy."
 
'No Idea of Television'
 Focus groups conducted by the campaign found that Mr. Perot was still a virtual unknown to most voters. Yet Mr. Perot rejected the advice of subordinates to run advertisements that would have helped define him.
"He had no idea of television," said one staff member. "His idea of television was getting on the 'Today' show and being interviewed by Katie Couric."
Officials of the campaign said Mr. Perot's distrust of professional political consultants such as Edward J. Rollins and Hamilton Jordan, the co-managers of the campaign, was reflected in how he spent money. They said that, while he lavished funds on state volunteer operations, his Dallas campaign headquarters was caught up in heated arguments over whether commercials should be shot on videotape, or on more expensive 35-millimeter film.
 
Notes From an Airplane
 Mr. Perot reportedly also did not like appearing in forums other than rallies at which the presence of a cadre of his hard-core supporters could be assured. He argued against speaking before the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People last weekend, asserting that members of the group "won't vote for me anyway," a campaign aide said.
The Texan then ignored a speech written for the occasion by Mr. Squires. Speaking from notes that he prepared aboard his private jet as he flew to Nashville, Mr. Perot delivered what many considered a patronizing speech that missed a chance to expand his appeal to younger black professionals.
Mr. Perot also seemed reluctant to become well-versed on issues, several campaign insiders say. Though his staff prepared thick briefing books on various issues, Mr. Perot said he preferred one- or two-page memorandums.
 
Loose Selection Process
 Campaign aides say the Perot organization never made any strides toward selecting a running mate, beyond bandying about names of prominent people. Among those mentioned were Gen. Colin L. Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Elizabeth H. Dole, president of the American Red Cross; Bernadine P. Healy, director of the National Institutes of Health; Jack F. Kemp, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and former Senator Paul E. Tsongas of Massachusetts, an early candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination.
None of the group were brought in for any kind of interview to see if they were interested.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry King, left, and Ross Perot pausing during a commercial break last night on Mr. King's live television talk show. Mr. Perot announced on Thursday that he would not be a candidate for President. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (60%); PEROT PETITION COMMITTEE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEROT PETITION COMMITTEE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); PETITIONS (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; PEROT, ROSS MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



547 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Dow Off 29.99 as I.B.M. Is Pummeled

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:
Bill Clinton looked good; I.B.M. looked bad. So investors found reason to sell stocks before heading off for the weekend.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 29.99 points yesterday, or just less than 1 percent, to 3,331.64, putting it 1.08 ahead for the week. A $5.25 drop in I.B.M., to $95 a share, directly accounted for more than a third of the average's decline. 
 Market watchers said that the fears aroused by I.B.M.'s disappointing earnings dragged down the rest of the market. Stock analysts are now saying that earnings might not improve so much after all. Maybe, they say, share prices built on the assumption of a respectable recovery will have trouble withstanding repeated disappointments.
 
'Somewhat Overvalued'
 "You have a market that is somewhat overvalued," said Frank Kennedy, chief market strategist at Equitable Capital Mangement. "As you see disappointing earnings reports, you are reminded that the earnings gap between long-term bonds and stocks is rather wide."
Long-term bonds are paying from 7.68 percent for Treasuries and about 8.25 percent for high-grade corporate issues, while dividends on the Standard & Poor's index of 500 issues are yielding 3 percent. A rise in United States bond yields yesterday, after German rates were raised, also weighed on the stock market.
Political events offered investors no diversion. Stocks advanced on Thursday after Ross Perot announced his decision not to enter the Presidential race as an independent. But to some on Wall Street, the beginning of a two-man bout after an optimistic Democratic convention was no more reassuring.
"There was always a residual feeling in the market that Bush would pull it out," said Byron R. Wien, the United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley. "Clinton's momentum increases the prospects of a Democratic victory."
With Madison Square Garden just about three miles away, it was hard for Wall Street to ignore all the talk there about raising taxes for the rich. Some investors were so jittery that they acted on rumors that President Bush was ill and that Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d or someone else would jump into the race, said Paul Fine, who trades stock-index futures at Shearson Lehman.
The market's decline was broad-based, with losers on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbering gaining issues, 1,054 to 613. Volume was 192.1 million shares, down from 206.9 million on Thursday.
The International Business Machines Corporation's profits did improve fivefold in the second quarter, but analysts expected it to do better after an especially weak second quarter last year. With 5.9 million shares traded, it led the Big Board active list. Apple Computer, which also reported weak earnings, dropped 3 3/4, to 45.
 
More Weak Data
 Investors looking for other signs of weakness readily found them. Reuters reported that the University of Michigan's index of consumer confidence in the economy slipped to 77.1 percent in early July from 80.4 percent for June. May's trade deficit rose to an 18-month high, as sluggish economies abroad meant weak demand for American products.
As a result, analysts said, auto stocks and other cyclical issues that depend heavily on an economic recovery fared poorly, with Ford Motor down 1, to 44 5/8.
Digital Equipment, however, gained 2 1/4, to 43 1/4, on heavy volume after the resignation on Thursday of its founder and chairman, Kenneth H. Olsen. Analysts have blamed him for the company's recent losses.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (85%); IBM (NYSE) (85%); IBM (LSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FUTURES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); POLITICS (64%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R BILL CLINTON (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



548 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
I.B.M. reported a fivefold jump in profits to $714 million, or $1.25 a share, for the second quarter, but that was below analysts' estimates. Investors responded by driving the computer maker's shares down $5.25 each, to $95, in active trading. [35.] Texas Instruments reported a profit of $72 million, or 73 cents a share, compared with a loss of $157 million a year earlier. [39.]
Prices of personal computers have plunged in recent weeks, buyers are not snapping up bargains. Instead they seem to be waiting for yet-lower prices. [35.] 
 A Muppet with a bar sinister? The discovery -- and attempted promotion -- of two long-lost fuzzy characters, Wilkins and Wontkins, created by Jim Henson when he was still a student, has led to suits and countersuits, even fisticuffs. [35.]
Dashing, articulate Robert B. Palmer bears no surface resemblence to Kenneth H. Olsen, the lumbering, bearlike founder and president of Digital Equipment, whom he is to succeed. But Mr. Olsen, a 66-year-old former M.I.T. professor, is pleased that he can leave the company in the hands of a visionary scientist rather than turn it over to a salesman. [37.] Pier Carlo Falotti, the president of Digital's European operations, resigned to head the Ask Companies, a leading California software supplier. [37.]
Nationsbank's acquisitive chief executive, Hugh L. McColl Jr., sees a prospect in Baltimore's troubled MNC Financial, which would give him a dominant position in the market around Washington. Nationsbank agreed to invest $200 million in MNC for a 16 percent nonvoting stake and an option to buy the whole company for at least $1.2 billion more by Sept. 30, 1997. [37.]
Byron Donics will leave Estee Lauder's Aramis division, where he is president, to head a financing company that plans to invest in the international and domestic health and beauty industries. [37.]
 
 International
 The nation's merchandise trade deficit widened to $7.38 billion in May, as exports, the mainstay of economic growth since President Bush took office, fell for the third consecutive month. [35.]
Brazil's new debt agreement with its creditor banks has spurred enormous enthusiasm in the Government in Rio de Janeiro and among private economists, despite the country's huge economic problems and a corruption scandal. [41.]
 
The Economy
Consumers' confidence in the economy slipped in early July, a survey prepared by the University of Michigan indicates. The survey -- keenly watched by financial markets -- showed that the sentiment index fell to 77.1 percent in early July from 80.4 percent for the whole of June, recipients said. [48.]
A plan setting aside $50 million for investors who filed late claims against Michael R. Milken and other employees of Drexel Burnham Lambert was approved by a Federal judge. [48.]
 
Markets
 Stocks tumbled, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling 29.99 points, or just under 1 percent, to 3,331.64, as I.B.M. dropped $5.25 to $95. Some market watchers also cited anxiety over the apparent strength of Gov. Bill Clinton. [38.]
Bond prices fell sharply, impelled by a stronger-than-expected regional Federal Reserve bank survey of manufacturers and a big drop in the value of the dollar, among other factors. [38.]
Precious metals prices were drive up by investors seeking a safe harbor. Gold rose $4.80, to $358 an ounce. [45.] The dollar fell against major currencies. [45.]
 
Today's Columns
In I.R.S. wording, taxpayers can trust, but there is little comfort in deviations from it. Jan M. Rosen: Your Money. [36.]
The gene for a smell-enhancing protein was patented by researchers at Johns Hopkins University. Its precise role is still being explored. Edmund L. Andrews: Patents. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (58%); EL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (52%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); JUDGES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); EMERGING MARKETS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (61%); APPROVALS (60%); CORRUPTION (50%); SCANDALS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



549 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for Even Cheaper PC's

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:
In the economics taught in college, when prices fall, sales rise. But many personal computer customers seemed to have missed a few lessons. Despite the largest price cuts in the history of the personal computer business in recent weeks, they have decided to stop buying, stand back and enjoy the spectacle of an industry whirling into a vortex of hyper-deflation.
"Customers come up to me and say, 'When are the prices going to drop again?' " said Harry Shasho, sarcastically imitating their winks and nudges. A vice president of Willoughby's camera and electronics store on West 32d Street in Manhattan, Mr. Shasho recently surveyed a computer department bereft of customers and said, "When a guy's seen Compaq drop, and AST drop, and Leading Edge drop, all in one month's time, he says, 'Hey, I'll wait.' " 
 During recent weeks, Mr. Shasho said, sales have been down about 10 percent even from the recessionary levels of last year.
 
Cuts of as Much as 40%
 The lack of enthusiasm among some buyers is all the more striking given the extent of the recent price cuts -- as much as 40 percent just in the last month. And it demonstrates that the computer industry obeys its own economic laws: procrastinators are always rewarded, because prices always move lower.
"I am thinking about buying a computer for my aunt," said Thomas Sedlock, a customer at J&R Computer World, near City Hall in lower Manhattan. "Compaq's price cuts stimulated me to see what's available. But, for myself, I'm fussier. I would wait till color laptops are cheaper."
Dr. Sedlock, a psychiatrist, gave a few desultory taps to the keyboard of a NEC 386-5L20 laptop, then he looked longingly at a far more expensive machine that came with a color display.
He said he was confident that color laptops, which at J&R start at $2,899, would soon be cheaper than the black-and-white model he was testing. At J&R, prices are changed so frequently that few are posted, and a salesman had to tap into a computer himself to learn that the NEC costs $1,880.
Michael Ginsburg, a freelance writer testing the word-processing abilities of a Leading Edge computer at J&R, said he was also checking mail-order catalogues. Even then, finding the latest prices took some effort.
"Don't look at the prices," he said he was told when he called to request catalogues. "When you're ready to shop, call us."
The price wars appear to find corporate America asleep at the keyboard. Mr. Shasho said his corporate and institutional customers, including several Ivy League universities, were too fixed in their purchasing habits to either rush after any bargains or wait for further discounts.
"They have budgets, they have committees, they have purchase orders," he said, speaking at his usual 50-megahertz pace. "I'm talking about major companies, not Sid & Al's Hardware."
Kimball Brown, director of personal computer hardware research at the International Data Corporation, a consulting and research company, said all the price-cutting would lead to only minor increases in the number of machines sold this year, and no growth in revenues.
Some buyers, Mr. Brown said, are waiting for the International Business Machines Corporation to make its move. He expects to see a revamped product line in September. "When that happens, we'll have a whole new round of price cuts," he said. The company has already announced plans to sell clones in Europe and Canada under a new Ambra nameplate.
Lower prices for computers are nothing new. Prices have been falling and performance improving since the personal computer industry emerged from some West Coast garages about 15 years ago. But several analysts said the latest price war was fiercer than any they recall and the relative lack of customer response surprising.
"This is the most intense," said Seymour Merrin of Palo Alto, Calif., who publishes a computer newsletter. "This industry is incredibly Darwinian."
The latest struggle for survival started on June 15. The Compaq Computer Corporation of Houston, the first company to sell clones of I.B.M.'s personal computers, grew tired of smaller clone makers doing to it what it had done so well to I.B.M. Its market share and profits dwindling, Compaq struck back.
Before the hostilities, Compaq machines started at about $2,000. Now, for $899, a buyer can get a machine lacking only a few of the higher-priced model's features.
Dell, Toshiba, Sharp, NEC and Hyundai rushed to introduce low-priced computers or cut prices on their current models by as much as 40 percent. Over the last month, price cuts averaged 20 to 30 percent -- as much as computer prices normally fall in a whole year, said Jonathan L. Yarmis, the director of the personal computer division at the Gartner Group, a market research and consulting firm in Stamford, Conn. Gartner is now advising clients to begin buying personal computers again, unless they want to wait for further possible savings from I.B.M. or AST Research.
Among several major computer makers, only Compaq, which has many corporate and institutional buyers, reports that the price cuts have brought a surge of orders -- more than it can immediately satisfy.
Genelle Trader, vice president of marketing at Everex Systems Inc., which sells I.B.M.-compatible clones, said "things got very quiet" after Compaq slashed its prices. "We did see some caution and stalling. I've talked to acquaintances at other competitors and they all see the same thing," she said.
But she said she saw some revived buying last week. And some rapidly growing clone makers, including the Dell Computer Corporation, say the price wars are not costing them any business.
Indeed, hesitation to buy is by no means universal. Some buyers are so awed by the performance they can afford that they see no reason to wait.
In the buy-now camp is Robert D. Holmes, a Southern California Gas Company computer specialist who helps channel more than $2 million in annual purchases of personal computers. He said that to delay buying would deprive the company of the greater productivity the new machines bring.
 
Moves Up the Line
 With a goal of spending about $3,000 a machine, Mr. Holmes had initially planned to buy computers powered by 386DX chips. Now, instead, he plans to buy machines with the much faster, top-of-the-line 486DX chips.
But some people who bought computers recently cannot forgive themselves. A lawyer stopping by J&R said he was proud when he landed a Centrix computer a month ago, powered by the fast and powerful 486DX microprecssor, and connected to a broad, 15-inch color screen -- for $2,500. That system now sells for hundreds of dollars less. "I'm kicking myself," he said.
Adding to the injury, he said, several colleagues at his firm -- some secretaries, too -- are still waiting to buy.
Mr. Shasho of Willoughby's said some customers berated him when they found that a machine they bought for $2,798 16 months ago was now the economy model, selling for $799.
Some buyers do not have the luxury of waiting for lower prices. Gennady Mossin, a shopper at Willoughby's, carefully looked over the least-expensive computers and wondered whether they might someday be able to handle Cyrillic. Mr. Mossin, a translator and interpreter, told a salesman he wanted to buy something small enough to carry back on the plane to Russia.
"For me, it's now or never," Mr. Mossin said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Ginsburg shopped recently at J&R Computer World, where industry price cuts have forced constant price changes. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
 
"$1,500 Worth, Then and Now" shows examples of personal computer systems that about $1,500 would buy a year ago and today from Dell Computer, a leading maker of IBM-compatible computers. (Source: Dell Computer) (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CPQ (NYSE) (83%); IBM (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: R-COMPUTER (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); PERSONAL COMPUTERS; PRICES PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (89%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); DEFLATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (60%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



550 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: At the Truck Stop;
The View From the Semi: Long-Haul Drivers Look Down on Politicians

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SIOUX CITY, Iowa, July 16

 BODY:
Of the various publics largely ignoring politics as the Democrats convened in New York, few did it with such tooth-picking gusto as the nation's long-haul truck drivers. They swaggered down to earth from their air-cushioned driver's seats here at Interstate 29's dusty Truck Haven and sounded more intent on tucking into a stack of pancakes than on taking this nation back, getting it moving again, or whatever the convention cliche was back East.
"You think I should pay attention to them politicians when they can't even balance their own damn checkbooks?" asked Jim Wendt, a 63-year-old driver whose rig full of perishables rested at low idle across the Truck Haven lot beside dozens of other panting, rumbling diesel trucks.
 
Lots of Hissing and Chuffing
 "The same sort of 'respected people' who robbed us in that savings-and-loan scandal get elected as delegates to them things," the driver declared, angrily splitting the blame between the parties with cleaver bluntness. Mr. Wendt repeatedly used the savings-and-loan and House bank scandals to dismiss the convention promises emanating this summer from politicians to do better next time. 
 As the driver fulminated under the bill of his weathered baseball cap, dozens of groaning, hissing truck rigs glided in and chuffed out of the Truck Haven lot. They gathered as if for a counter-convention of angry metal mammoths. But it was only a normal slice of Americana where human survival can get reduced to such a monotonous ramble of work, sleep and meals that politicians seem at best irrelevant outsiders.
"Hell, I was listening to Jesse Jackson the other night, and I kept waiting to have to come to a screeching halt before all the beggars and homeless he says are lying around America," said Tom Liston, one of the rare drivers interviewed who admitted he would pause a bit when he hears politics on his truck radio dial, but mainly to rile himself on a nocturnal haul. "All that doom and gloom just to get themselves elected, so you know they can't afford to talk about the good things," said Mr. Liston, a driver for 15 of his 37 years.
Truck Haven constitutes a small wayside village that never sleeps and a precinct where politicians best tread lightly. Under this week's full moon, rows of corn crowded to the very edge of enormous asphalt parking lots where the thrum of the idling trucks never stopped. Drivers confronted a stranger's questions about politics as if they were being invited to stare up into the Iowa night in search of life beyond the truck stop.
"I been doing my paperwork and can't be bothered with that," said one grizzled man, begging off the task.
"I need a shower right now more than politics," said another, stretching after descending from his work perch.
The way station includes a plain block lodge of motel beds, a repair depot, and a round-the-clock diner replete with promises of Mom's cooking, credit-card phones and ash trays at each table, plus a "Truckfax" phone machine so drivers can get lading bills and seal the paperwork of deals back beyond the antacid shelf in the general store.
"Reagan screwed up," said one driver, complaining about business as he poured syrup onto a prodigious melange of pancakes, eggs, bacon and sausage. "He should have kept those taxes instead of cutting them, and instead cut spending."
A driver on a neighboring stool snorted generally of politicians: "Well, you know they're never gonna cut spending." A third man shifted the talk to the new national driver licenses the truckers find bedeviling. The discussion of Presidential politics was over in a minute, and the heartland seemed stony in comparison with the idealism and optimism to be found on the convention pictures being televised from New York as the drivers moved through the night or paused at their stations.
 
Past Failures Lamented
 Asked about the subject, Mike Turner stopped on his way back to his rig and said, "Clinton may make it, but he's taking over a garbage scene, with all the failure that's gone before." Mr. Turner, a 43-year-old driver who has covered 48 states in long-haul commerce, listens to the popular talk-radio night host, Bill Sanders. He said the talk this week has rarely been of the political convention, but rather of the confusion and supposed inequities of trucking licenses.
Chris Agers, a 29-year-old driver wielding a long-handled squeegee across his wet windshield by the Truck Haven diesel pumps, said politics is a world of "bits and pieces, at best" to him as he rambles cross-country. "My sense is the Democrats are quiet this year, so maybe it's the Republicans' turn to be disruptive," he said.
"I'll tell you, I was in the Air Force serving in Saudi Arabia during Desert Storm, and I found that a waste of taxpayers' money by the politicians," said Mr. Agers. "The President should care about the economy and the people of the U.S. first, then the rest of the world."
Ben Schlaefli's knowledge of the latest news from New York was not at all about the Democrats at Madison Square Garden, but about an annoying new safety requirement to have two special yellow lights always blinking on oversized loads in New York, unlike all the other states of the union. "That raises my hackles more than the convention does," he said.
Jim Tuller, in his 42d year of interstate truck driving, "couldn't care less" about who makes it next to the White House. "Lot of new young drivers on the roads nowadays, and they don't stop to help when you're in trouble," he said when asked what is of concern to him. "It's everybody for himself these days."
"Driving around, of course I can see the hard times, people out of work," said Mr. Tuller. But still he said it was a waste of time to listen to politicians' promises about the problems he can see so plainly through the windshield. "I'm six months from retirement," he said. "Wouldn't you know my wife wants to see the country and drive around a lot." He shrugged as he headed from his rig into the truckers' diner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SIOUX CITY (IOWA) UNITED STATES (93%); IOWA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) TRUCK DRIVERS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TRUCKING (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (68%); SCANDALS (67%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



551 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Democrats;
With No Break, Clinton Initiates Campaign Tour

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J., July 17

 BODY:
Bill Clinton and his running mate, Al Gore, rallied the Democratic faithful today, using the first full day of their campaign to romance supporters of Ross Perot and open a six-day bus tour that will carry them through nine states.
"This is our chance to change America," Mr. Clinton said at a meeting of the Democratic National Committee before leaving New York this morning. "Let's take it." 
 The new Democratic ticket left midtown Manhattan in a caravan of eight buses that took them from a confetti-strewn rally to the outskirts of Camden in about two hours.
Governor Clinton of Arkansas, Senator Gore of Tennessee and their aides were ebullient today, telling their supporters that the Presidency was within reach if they could persuade Mr. Perot's supporters to join the Democrats.
 
Playing Down Polls
 Nonetheless, Mr. Clinton and his strategists played down the latest public opinion polls showing that they have surged to a remarkable lead over President Bush in the last week.
Mr. Clinton had 56 percent to Bush's 33 percent in a USA Today-CNN poll by the Gallup Organization of 602 voters.ABC News polled 527 voters, who gave Mr. Clinton a 54-to-31 percent lead. He enjoyed an even bigger lead among "likely voters," who favored the Arkansas Governor, 58 percent to 29 percent, ABC said. Both polls had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus five percentage points.
The Democrats proudly marched out two Perot-to-Clinton converts at their East 48th Street rally today. Matthew L. Liflander and Thomas Hoving, two Perot organizers in New York State, appeared to announce their decision to embrace the Clinton-Gore ticket.
"All those people who thought Ross Perot had guts -- and he don't -- must go back to the obvious choice, who has guts," said Mr. Hoving, a former New York City Parks commissioner and former director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. "He's proven it. Leadership is courage and persistence in times of adversity."
Mr. Clinton said that Mr. Perot gave Democrats the "ultimate compliment" when he said during a surprise news conference on Thursday that he was abandoning his Presidential bid in part because the Democratic Party had appeared to be revitalizing itself.
"It is for us now to show that we can be trusted to do what we say and to run this country," Mr. Clinton said.
Mr. Clinton, Mr. Gore and their wives traveled in a custom-fitted bus for the first leg of the tour. Their first stop was an aerospace plant here, where employment has dropped from 5,000 workers to 1,600 in five years.
The 1,000-mile itinerary includes stops in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois and Missouri. Winning those states along the route is crucial to the Democrats' chances of defeating President Bush in November.
"This will be a campaign of action, words of movement, not just talk," Mr. Clinton said before he left on his bus tour. "We are going to change this country with your help. That is what this whole convention has been about."
The two Democrats continued their theme this afternoon at the Camden stop, where they met with Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey and Representative Robert E. Andrews, both Democrats.
Repeating the theme that Clinton strategists believe is their best weapon against President Bush, Mr. Clinton described the plant's program to retrain space technology workers as an example of the best kind of change.
"Change is the key to your security," Mr. Clinton said.
"The other side is saying we've been in charge for 12 years and if you want change, vote for more of the same," Mr. Gore said. "That doesn't make sense. Their approach has failed."
Mr. Florio made a pitch that Mr. Clinton is certain to hear more of as he travels the country. "It's been a lonely, lonely effort having every state take care of its problems by itself," the New Jersey Governor said. "We need some help from Washington."
The Clinton campaign has learned well from the mistakes made by Michael S. Dukakis, the 1988 Democratic Presidential nominee, when he disappeared from the campaign trail after the convention. His 17-point lead in the polls subsequently disappeared as well.
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Gore have set a busy schedule for themselves this week, and both received a road map and instant camera to take along as they left New York. Reading material on their luxury bus included Jules Witcover's book, "Crapshoot: Rolling the Dice on the Vice Presidency."
Their final stop of the day was at Steelworkers Hall in Coatesville, Pa., where the caravan was to stay for the night. Plans called for the tour to visit the Pennsylvania cities of York, Carlisle, McKeesport and Pittsburgh on Saturday.
Mr. Clinton had a much better time in New York this time than he did when he campaigned there during the April primary and was greeted by hecklers at nearly every stop. Today, hundreds of people cheered as he left his midtown hotel, and hundreds more crowded the street outside for the send-off rally.
"I want to begin by saying a heartfelt welcome for this wonderful city that has been somewhat rough to me but in the end always good to me," he said. "New York, I love you. Thank you."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Clinton began trailblazing the Democratic campaign yesterday at a rally in Manhattan. At 48th Street and Lexington Avenue, before the bus tour headed for pivotal swing states, Mr. Clinton held three-month-old Bennett Walls of Arlington, Va., with an exuberant Hillary Clinton at his side. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)
 
Map of the U.S. showing route of the Clinton-Gore bus route.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY GALLUP ORGANIZATION (55%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMDEN (NJ) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; PUBLIC OPINION; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (61%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); PEROT, ROSS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (95%); AL GORE (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



552 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: In the Heartland;
Clinton Is Reaching Restless Reagan Democrats

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOMETOWN, Ill., July 17

 BODY:
When Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas took to the podium to accept the Democratic nomination for the Presidency and wax moderate about the needs of working people, he was likely hoping that a guy like Joe Madden was listening from his sky-blue velour recliner, nodding in agreement. And he was.
Mr. Madden, a maintenance supervisor in this working-class suburb southwest of Chicago, is a Democrat's dream. He is white, male and suburban, a family man who is a Democrat at heart, but was stolen away by the Republicans many elections ago. 
 He lives in a town full of Reagan Democrats and Kmart Republicans, a tidy suburb of tract homes in Buick country, where a majority of citizens, regardless of their party affiliation, have voted Republican for the last 12 years, twice for Ronald Reagan and once for George Bush.
Like most of his neighbors and millions of suburbanites across the nation, the 58-year-old Mr. Madden is the kind of voter the Democrats have been trying, and failing, to win over for years.
 
Willing This Time
 But this time, people like Mr. Madden seem willing to believe in them. He and more than a dozen other voters interviewed here since the closing of the Democratic convention on Thursday night said they felt betrayed by the Republicans and were looking over the fence again.
After Governor Clinton's acceptance speech that night Mr. Madden turned off his wide-screen television feeling better about Democrats than he had since he cast his last vote for a Democrat, John F. Kennedy in 1960. For now, he said, with the economy stalled, the Arkansas Governor has his vote.
"I feel he's going to bring the country together," Mr. Madden said. "We're deep in the hole. If he can do half of what he said, four years from now we'll be a much better country."
He sighed when asked about the last vote he cast, the one for President Bush. "I can't see voting for him again," Mr. Madden said. "He's a big wheeler and dealer. The country's going backward instead of forward. We fell for his promises and what did we get? There's too much money going to foreign countries when we got problems right here at home. Bush has been feeding the big guys. The working people can't carry the load anymore."
Hometown (population 4,769) is an unpretentious, aluminum-siding kind of town, where houses have pickup trucks out front and basketball hoops out back, where adult children live a few doors down from their parents and where the mayor has hung a poster in his office that says, "I Am the Flag."
God and country are important here. And the Democrats' red-white-and-blue banners, the close-up shots of Mr. Clinton's mother, her eyes misty, the cheers and banners and orchestrated show of unity during the Democratic National Convention were not lost of Hometown residents.
"I'm listening," said Ronald Jeffrey, an electrician in Hometown. "It's one of the best tickets they've had in a long time. They seem more unified. There isn't all the bickering. They seem to be more towards the center. I like what I see and I'm ready for a change. What wrong can this ticket do?"
Mr. Jeffrey, 42, is the kind of American who remembers going to ball games growing up and getting chills down his spine whenever he heard the national anthem. So when the Democrats play the patriotism card it seems almost a homing device for people like Mr. Jeffrey.
It is a strategy that for now is playing well in Hometown. The town has seen its population and tax base decrease in the years since Mr. Reagan took office. Many point to the local shopping center as proof that the Republicans have presided over a deteriorating economy.
"We're hurting," said Mr. Madden, who is the maintenance supervisor at the shopping center, and serves as the town's director of public works in his off-hours. "We have seven vacant stores. We had a food store, a bakery, a children's store, a shoe store, a Kresge's. All gone."
Mention George Bush here, and unemployment, recession and drugs spill from many people's lips. They seem infuriated that President Bush reneged on his pledge of no new taxes. They express a deep sense of alienation from the President, seeing him as an advocate for the elite, not them.
"He goes on vacation too much," Mr. Jeffrey said. "Every time you look around he's at Kennebunkport or something. Who's running the shop?"
What on the face of it would seem to be Mr. Bush's strengths are seen as weaknesses here. For one, Hometown residents tend to view Mr. Bush's first term as really the third term of the Reagan-Bush Administration. The argument that he needs a second term to complete the programs of the first -- an incumbent's standard line -- does not wash here.
"They've had 12 years to do something, and they haven't," said Joan Doberwits, the town clerk, who like most everyone else is a registered Democrat who has been voting Republican since 1980. "In my heart, I feel Bush has had enough time. He's had his chance."
William Cochrane, a telephone repairman, who has not voted for a Democrat since Harry S. Truman, said: "He's been a do-nothing President. I don't think Bush has done anything. Personally, I feel let down by the man."
The Persian Gulf war is a touchy subject with many residents, who say they are angry that Saddam Hussein is still in power.
"They spent millions of dollars and accomplished nothing," Mr. Corcoran said. "It was such a waste of time."
On the other hand, people seem not as troubled by Mr. Clinton's debits. Gennifer Flowers is long forgotten, whether he did or did not inhale is, to them, talk-show grist and people, for now, seem to be looking past his attempts to avoid Vietnam.
The charges of womanizing, in particular, seem to be a nonissue, and some seemed impressed that Gov. Clinton had weathered the scrutiny. "That kind of gossip irritates me," said Nancy Jeffrey, a nurse who is married to Mr. Jeffrey and has voted Republican with him.
Mr. Jeffrey sees both President Bush and Governor Clinton as morally flawed. "Bush's son was involved in the savings and loan mess," Mr. Jeffrey said. "You could sling mud back and forth all night long. They cancel each other out."
Some residents here say they like the idea of a Democratic Congress and President working together to get something done and others simply like the fact that Bill Clinton is not George Bush, especially now that Ross Perot is no longer in the picture.
"If one has to get in, let it be Clinton," came the voice of a retiree, Patricia Eisner, who until Thursday was a Perot supporter. "I want to believe what Clinton says because it sounds great. But face it, none of them would say what you wouldn't want to hear. They'd be a fool."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We're deep in the hole," said Joe Madden, a maintenance supervisor in Hometown, Ill., a suburb of Chicago. "If he can do half of what he said, four years from now we'll be a much better country." (Jack Spratt for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN-BUSH ADMINISTRATION (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: REAGAN-BUSH ADMINISTRATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HOMETOWN (ILL) UNITED STATES (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); BASKETBALL (60%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



553 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit at $7.38 Billion As Exports Post 3d Decline

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 17

 BODY:
Exports, the mainstay of economic growth since President Bush took office, fell for the third consecutive month in May, with the nation's merchandise trade deficit widening to $7.38 billion, the Commerce Department announced today.
As the Administration sought to minimize the report's significance, Democrats greeted the news as a confirmation of what Gov. Bill Clinton on Thursday night called a need for strengthening American competitiveness in international markets. 
 "It confirms the need for change," said Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan. "It confirms the fact that the No. 1 challenge before America is economic revitalization."
But Commerce Secretary Barbara H. Franklin noted that exports in the first five months of this year were still up 6 percent from last year. "Despite the volatility of monthly trade figures," she said, "the trend in export growth remains solid."
Exports have accounted for 87 percent of the nation's economic growth during the Bush Administration, according to the Commerce Department. But this spring the nation's trade surplus with Western Europe has shrunk as economic growth slows there, and is offsetting less of the nation's widening trade deficit with Japan and oil-producing countries.
Even third world countries, which have been a rapidly growing market for the United States in recent months, cut back their purchases slightly in May.
The overall May deficit was the highest in 18 months.
Stephen S. Roach, the senior economist at Morgan Stanley, said weak exports combined with rising unemployment had prompted his investment bank two weeks ago to cut its estimate of second- and third-quarter economic growth to 2.25 percent from 3.8 percent. "This report is certainly consistent with that revision," he said.
Mr. Roach warned that the trade deficit might continue to deteriorate as the increase in German interest rates announced on Thursday slowed European economies and their appetite for imports, while resumed growth in the United States might renew the demand for imports here.
The gloomiest reaction to the trade figures came from the United States Chamber of Commerce, whose 200,000 member companies have made the organization's views into a broad gauge of corporate sentiment across the country.
"It appears we have the worst of all worlds -- declining exports due to a sluggish global economy and increasingly fierce competition, declining imports reflecting fragile domestic demand, and an expanding trade deficit symptomatic of U.S. trade policies still mired in a cold-war mentality," the chamber's vice president for international issues, Willard A. Workman, said in a statement.
"While exports remain an important part of our economy, the data of the last three months indicate that America cannot rely solely on stimulus from our really stellar export performance of the past three years to mitigate fundamental weaknesses in the U.S. economy," Mr. Workman added. American exports, he said, were still restricted in areas like word-processing computer software.
Total exports, adjusted to exclude seasonal variations, fell to $35.49 billion in May from $36.41 billion in April and a peak of $37.65 billion in February. At $7.38 billion, the merchandise trade deficit in May was the widest since the $9.49 billion recorded for November 1990.
The May deficit would have been even wider if imports had not also fallen in May by $603.6 million, to $42.87 billion. The drop in imports "is not all good news, since some of the decline may be caused by a weaker than expected domestic economy," said Stephen Cooney, the director for international investment at the National Association of Manufacturers, the Washington-based trade group.
Mr. Cooney pointed out that slightly more than half of the drop in exports since February has come in civilian aircraft, which tend to be ordered in large clumps.
But the airline industry's prolonged slump, coupled with recent postponements and cancellations of new aircraft deliveries, could mean that the recent drop may foreshadow continued weakness, Mr. Cooney said.
The politically sensitive trade deficit with Japan narrowed in May to $3.50 billion from $4.21 billion in April. The nation's trade surplus with Mexico, which has accounted for two-fifths of this year's overall growth in exports, showed a small but surprising drop to $434.4 million, from $576.6 million in April.
The United States is in the final stages of negotiating a North American free trade agreement with Mexico and Canada. President Bush has cited the growth in American exports to Mexico and Latin America as one reason for doing so.
Mr. Levin, one of the main authors of a broad trade bill approved last week by the House, said that the new figures increased the odds that Congress would adopt a bill this year.
But Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who heads the Finance Committee, has repeatedly said he has not decided whether to introduce a trade bill in the Senate.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Balance of Trade" -- Deficit is the excess of imports over exports. Amounts in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Graphs show U.S. exports and imports and amount of deficit, May 1991-May 1992. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT MORGAN STANLEY (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); SANDER M LEVIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



554 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Albany Still Wrestling With Unfinished Business

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 17

 BODY:
Another round of meetings today between Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and state legislative leaders failed once again to produce an agreement on a package of bills left over from the legislative session, including a fiscal bailout for Nassau and Suffolk counties.
The bills, which also include an $800 million bond act intended to create jobs across the state, unraveled in the early morning of July 3, just before the Legislature went home for the summer. Since then, staff members from the Governor's office, the Democratic-led Assembly and the Republican-led Senate have been meeting in hope of cutting a deal. 
 Governor Cuomo said today that progress was being made and that some issues had been resolved. But he added that "the deal I made with them is that nothing is agreed to until everything's agreed to. So you say, 'This piece is done provided you do this piece.' "
After a midday meeting of the Governor, Senate Majority Leader Ralph J. Marino and Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin ended with major points unresolved, the group broke for the day. Predictably, aides to Mr. Marino and Mr. Weprin each blamed the other side for the stymie.
But Mr. Cuomo said he was hopeful a resolution could be reached, possibly by the end of the weekend. He scheduled talks for Saturday afternoon to discuss Long Island proposals, and he asked Louis J. Yevoli, the Democratic supervisor of the town of Oyster Bay, and County Executives Thomas S. Gulotta of Nassau and Robert Gaffney of Suffolk to join the three leaders.
 
Tax Increases Sought
 "We want to get this thing resolved as quickly as possible," said Anne Crowley, Governor Cuomo's spokeswoman. "We are running out of time. We need more information from them, and it will be helpful to have all of them in the room with the leaders."
The Nassau leader wants permission to borrow $100 million and to raise the county mortgage-recording tax from 1 percent to 2 percent. The Suffolk leader wants the authority from Albany to borrow up to $91 million and to raise the county sales tax half a percentage point, to 8.5 percent. Leaders in both counties say that without action, they could run out of money by this fall.
Because the state Legislature must pass the jobs bond act by Aug. 3 if the question is to be put on the November ballot, the leaders have less time to resolve the remaining issues. Once an agreement is reached, the Legislature would then have to be called back to Albany for a special session to vote on the bills.
If the bond act and a proposal to expand the powers of the New York State Thruway Authority are extremely important to Mr. Cuomo's economic-development plans, the Long Island bailout is essential for Mr. Marino, who comes from Long Island and whose political base is there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (53%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING COUNTIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); BONDS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); LEGISLATION (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); TAX LAW (70%); SALES TAX (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: LYALL, SARAH; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MARIO M CUOMO (94%); RALPH J MARINO (76%); SAUL WEPRIN (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



555 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: New Betrayal, Senecas Say, And New Rage

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SALAMANCA, N.Y., July 17

 BODY:
JoJo Redeye is haunted by memories of a happy childhood.
After work, as the sun dips below the pine-crowned hills, Mr. Redeye, the 55-year-old maintenance manager for the Seneca nation, often walks to the reservoir created by the construction of the Kinzu Dam, which wiped out the the places where he was born and raised. 
 "They condemned our land," he said. "They dug up our sacred grounds and scooped up remains. They've caged us and crowded us like a bunch of animals. Sometimes I sit down and cry."
 
White Residents Worry
 Now his anger, shared by many of the 5,500 Senecas who live near here, is bubbling over in a protest against a tax ruling that the Senecas see as the latest in a series of betrayals and broken promises. Although the confrontation was suspended tonight, after the Senecas won a favorable temporary injunction, the dispute, which produced scuffles with the state police and the closing of sections of two highways, is not ended.
The protest revolves around the ability of the state to collect taxes on reservation sales to outsiders. On July 9, the Appellate Court decided in New York's favor, but tonight a State Court of Appeals judge issued a temporary injunction against the state. A hearing was scheduled for July 27 to decide whether the injunction will be permanent.
In addition, Indian leaders said tonight that under an agreement with state troopers, the troopers would no longer come onto the reservations except by invitation of the Senecas, such as to help with a major accident. And a delegation from the Cattauragus and Allegany reservations, including many of the young Senecas who took the lead in the confrontation, is to go to Albany Wednesday to meet with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
The court ruling is the latest twist in a tax fight that is several years old.
Treaties establishing Indian reservations as independent nations prohibit states from levying taxes on transactions between Indians. Without the taxes, the price of cigarettes and fuel sold by Indian establishments has been substantially less than that charged by surrounding retailers.
But in an effort to help close the state budget gap, New York three years ago imposed regulations restricting the amount of tax-free cigarettes and fuel that wholesalers could supply to reservations.
Suppliers exceeding the "cap" -- which was to be set through negotiations with tribal leaders or based on the size of the native population -- would be held liable for taxes on merchandise that was presumably to be sold to non-Indians. The state Commissioner of Taxation and Finance, James W. Wetzler, has estimated those sales cost New York $50 million a year in uncollected taxes.
Indians and their suppliers fought the regulations, and the Attea Brothers, a Buffalo-based cigarette wholesaler, filed suit.
Protests began Wednesday night on the Cattaraugus reservation, 40 miles north of here, when about 200 Indians began burning tires and debris on a bridge overlooking the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway, which skirts the Indian land. Shortly after midnight, they started throwing flaming debris onto the Thruway, causing the police to temporarily close a 30-mile section.
 
Taking Back the Thruway
 State police in riot gear moved in. Thirteen Indians were arrested and three suffered minor injuries, state police said. Four state troopers also were hurt, including the region's commander, Major Bruce Roloff.
The protest spread here Thursday when about 300 Senecas cut off a section of State Route 17, the Southern Tier Expressway.
Today, before the judge issued his temporary injunction, the Indians reinforced roadblocks of cars, burning tires and park benches across state roads and prepared for a confrontation with the more than 200 state police on the scene. After the judge's ruling, barricades came down.
"We're mad," said Eliott Jimerson, a Seneca standing at one barricade. "We're going to take drastic action to make people listen. And if they don't listen, there will be violence."
White residents of Salamanca, which has a population of about 3,500 and is built predominantly on the Indian reservation, became increasingly worried as the protests intensified today. Banks closed early and emptied their cash machines. Supermarkets sent employees home early. So did state parks and some convenience stores.
While the imposition of the tax would be an economic blow for the Senecas, Indian businessmen said the protest was not solely because of the ruling.
"It's been brewing a long time," said Art Jimerson, the nephew of the owner of Seneca Hawk Petro, a four-pump gas station, convenience store and restaurant. "We're finally standing up on our own feet and saying we're not taking it any more. Everybody's boiling point came at one time. We can't stand it anymore and we're not taking it anymore."
The Senecas said that if the state insists on levying the tax, they will take back the land under the Thruway and the Expressway.
"The bottom line is the breaking of their treaty. Again," said J. C. Seneca, a tribal leader. "They make sure we keep our side of the bargain. But they only keep theirs when it's convenient."
At a Thursday news conference, Governor Cuomo took note of the longstanding roots of the protest. "It's hard to deny the emotional validity of their position," he said. "That makes it extremely complicated. Extremely."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seneca Indians protesting a new sales tax on reservations confronted police officers Thursday in Salamanca, N.Y. (Associated Press)
 
Map of New York showing location of Cattaraugus Indian Reservation. (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SALAMANCA (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INDIANS, AMERICAN; SENECA NATION OF INDIANS; SALES TAX; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INJUNCTIONS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (88%); LITIGATION (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); SALES TAX (74%); TAX LAW (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); POLICE FORCES (72%); APPEALS COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (71%); RETAILERS (71%); RIOTS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); TAX AUTHORITIES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); TOBACCO PRODUCT WHOLESALERS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); JUDGES (66%); POPULATION SIZE (55%); 

PERSON: GRUSON, LINDSEY JOJO REDEYE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



556 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Convention Spotlight Has Warm Glow for the Mayor

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins, who brought the Democrats to New York, was no doubt sorry to see them leave yesterday. Few weeks in Mr. Dinkins's often stormy 30-month tenure have been remotely like this one.
At one point, within a span of 48 hours, the Mayor delivered a welcoming speech from the podium at Madison Square Garden; addressed tens of thousands of people crammed into Times Square for an AIDS rally and, the next morning, a salute to Broadway; took Nelson Mandela, the head of the African National Congress, to meet with Gov. Bill Clinton at the Democratic nominee's hotel; was host to mayors from around the country at Gracie Mansion, and kicked off a glitzy fashion show featuring top New York designers under a huge air-conditioned tent in Central Park. 
 Amid the swirl of events, Mr. Dinkins also managed at least a half-dozen television interviews and countless appearances at breakfasts, luncheons and receptions for convention delegates. And he was greeted with standing ovations and compliments, about both his city and his performance as host to the Democratic National Convention.
 
Long Toil Rewarded
 It was a week that offered a powerful reminder of why someone would want to be Mayor of a city as contentious and demanding as New York.
"Mayor Dinkins, it has been wonderful being in your city these past few days," Representative Maxine Waters of California said on Wednesday at a lunch for women in politics sponsored by Essence magazine. "You have been crisscrossing this city, going everywhere, always with a smile. This is a complicated city, and you're doing a wonderful job."
As hundreds of delegates headed home yesterday, some New York officials said much the same thing. After a week of hoopla at Madison Square Garden and carefully staged events from Brooklyn to the Bronx, the city began returning to its own rhythms. [Page 26.]
Mr. Dinkins, who has spent most of his term trying to overcome criticism of his handling of everything from the budget to labor negotiations to the boycott of a Korean grocery in Brooklyn, is not accustomed to hearing such sustained praise. And he did not dispute those who suggested that the glow coming from New York all week might brighten his own standing.
Like Governor Clinton, Mr. Dinkins is likely to enjoy what political operatives call a bounce in the polls as a result of the upbeat week. But even he acknowledged that the political impact of the convention may not be long-lived. Asked yesterday at a news conference how long he thought he might benefit, Mr. Dinkins said, "Who knows? Maybe an hour and a half."
The Mayor is not a man who easily reveals his feelings in public. When he was asked on Thursday what the week had meant to him, he answered with a phrase that he sometimes employs: "It sure as hell is better than a jab in the eye with a sharp stick."
But when pressed, Mr. Dinkins said the week could not have gone better. "I am delighted with the reaction that we've gotten in the city for the convention, and pleased that my speech went well," he said. "This is all good for our city. It may also not be bad for me."
Polishing New York's image as a tourist attraction surely helps the local economy, particularly when the city has endured two years of national news stories that have depicted it as a place overwhelmed by lurid crimes, fleeing corporations and racial and ethnic strife.
Mr. Dinkins, a loyal Democrat, missed few chances this week to help the Clinton-Gore ticket, and he seemed mindful as well of another race -- his own.
Mr. Dinkins's main Democratic rival, Andrew J. Stein, was highly visible this week in a whirl of appearances with groups that included attending the Hispanic Caucus, the Women's Caucus, gay delegates, advocates for people with AIDS march and abortion-rights advocates.
But, it seemed, no one moved faster than the Mayor.
On Wednesday, after meeting with Mr. Mandela and Mr. Clinton, the Mayor rushed downtown for a news conference at the Varick Street offices of the Spanish-language daily, El Diario-La Prensa. There, he was lauded by the Mayor of San Juan, Hector Luis Acevedo, and the president of the Puerto Rican Senate, Miguel Hernandez Agosto, for making changes to the Democratic platform that assured the party's continued support for existing Federal tax incentives for mainland businesses that relocate to Puerto Rico.
Mr. Dinkins, who has been criticized by local Hispanic leaders for failing help their communities, was hailed by Mr. Acevedo, who called his work on the party platform "testament of his effort and his loyalty to the people of Puerto Rico."
So it went all week, with Mr. Dinkins making 8 to 10 stops a day around Manhattan, then spending the evening at Madison Square Garden. And he was much in demand for interviews: the Mayor's press secretary, Leland T. Jones, said an unofficial count showed about 65 convention-related radio and television appearances in the last two weeks.
And while the Mayor tended to the ceremonial occasions, senior aides oversaw the myriad details of keeping the city and the convention functioning smoothly. Deputy Mayor Bill Lynch handled the large-scale political matters, from shepherding the Rev. Jesse Jackson to greeting Mr. Mandela. The director of the Mayor's Office of Operations, Harvey Robins, coordinated the city's vast and largely successful effort to keep midtown streets safe and gridlock-free. Several prescient aides even created an informal group that they dubbed the Delegate Mugging Response Team, to provide a quick, helping hand to unlucky conventioneers.
The preparations freed the Mayor to shuttle from hotel meeting rooms to outdoor rallies, and at nearly every stop he basked in warm praise.
In the lobby of the Sheraton New York Hotel one morning, a man with a Southwestern accent told Mr. Dinkins: "Great city, Mr. Mayor. I've been here 20 straight years, four times a year, and I think it's never been better."
And during the AIDS rally in Times Square, a young woman yelled, "Hey, Dinkins, we love you, man!" The Mayor, seated on the outdoor stage between Gregory Hines and Jessica Lange, smiled broadly and waved.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); POLITICS (75%); GOVERNORS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); FASHION SHOWS (69%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (61%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (58%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) BILL CLINTON (73%); MAXINE WATERS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



557 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Republicans;
G.O.P. Asks Perot Backers To Give Its Ticket a Chance

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TAMPA, July 17

 BODY:
In a campaign foray across three Southern states, Vice President Dan Quayle courted supporters of Ross Perot today and vowed to "peel back the veneer to find out what is underneath" Gov. Bill Clinton, whom the Democrats anointed this week as their Presidential nominee.
Almost a continent away, President Bush took much the same tack toward supporters of the Texas billionaire. 
 In Jackson, Wyo., President Bush ended an idyllic two days of trout fishing. Using barbecue and contrition as his lures, he went off in pursuit of the wily Perot supporter.
In a lunchtime appearance before about 1,000 people at the airport in Jackson Hole, Mr. Bush pleaded for Mr. Perot's supporters to give the Republicans a chance to "complete the dream" of his first term.
"Today I have a message for anyone who supported Ross Perot, and any American who identifies with that frustration that brought them together: I hear you, and you've come through loud and clear," Mr. Bush said. "I hear the voices, in so many accents, say that attention must be paid to our jobs, our schools, our families. Attention must be paid to our future. And I hear that call. And more than that, I share your frustration."
Yet it was Mr. Quayle, at stops in Kentucky, Mississippi and Florida, who laid out what are likely to become the principal themes in the campaign. He portrayed Mr. Clinton and his running mate, Senator Al Gore, as traditional tax-and-spend Democrats who have adopted moderate language to mask their underlying liberalism.
 
Putting G.O.P. Label on Issues
 He said he had been surprised to hear Mr. Clinton speak of subjects ranging from family values to national security in his acceptance speech Thursday night."These are all very much Republican issues," Mr. Quayle said. The Vice President said that as he watched Democratic delegates applaud Mr. Clinton's emphasis on the family, he had been amused because "many in that same audience ridiculed me for bringing it up" during his Murphy Brown speech in California this spring.
Mr. Quayle particularly criticized Mr. Clinton's pro-choice position on abortion. He described the Democratic nominee's pledge to appoint Supreme Court justices who will uphold a woman's right to an abortion as "a very extreme statement," and he ridiculed the Democrats' endorsement of family leave in their platform as "a typical big-Government paternalistic response" to an important social issue.
The Vice President also sought to portray Mr. Clinton as unable to lead the economy back to prosperity. He recalled high inflation and interest rates under former President Jimmy Carter and said that Mr. Clinton planned to raise taxes, which "is not the way to create jobs."
Speaking of the Bush Administration, he said, "We have the plan for economic growth. Please look at our program." He added that it was "important for the American people to know who Bill Clinton is, what damage he will do to the economy."
Mr. Quayle also said that he and Mr. Bush planned to "reach out to the volunteers of Ross Perot." Reversing earlier criticism in which he had described Mr. Perot as a "temperamental tycoon" with no respect for the Constitution, Mr. Quayle praised the Texas billionaire for having "energized a lot of people."
At a news conference late this afternoon, Mr. Quayle urged Mr. Perot's supporters not to become disillusioned with the political process and to bring their energy to the Republican Party.
"If you want change, you have to have a united Government," Mr. Quayle said. "Divided Government does not serve us well."
 
Blaming the Democrats
 As he has done repeatedly in the past, Mr. Quayle blamed the Democratic majority in Congress for the impasse in Washington that Mr. Perot made the centerpiece of his now-abandoned crusade.
Earlier in the day, Mr. Quayle met with leaders of the Perot campaign in Kentucky to seek their support. He said that he had answered their questions about issues, and he predicted that with enough encouragement, they would eventually be coaxed into the Republican fold.
"It is especially important to have the Ross Perot supporters come our way, and I think they will," he said. "But it will take time."
In President Bush's appearance, his oratory bore a telling similarity to some early campaign speeches in New Hampshire last January, when he allowed that he had underestimated public dismay over the state of the economy and told one crowd, "Message: I care."
The apologies helped little in New Hampshire, where Patrick Buchanan, a conservative commentator, gave Mr. Bush a brief scare.
Today's blue-jeans and T-shirt crowd munched appreciatively on barbecue and baked beans, toe-tapped to Western music and applauded politely, but otherwise seemed little moved by the President's pleas.
Mr. Bush's appearance today overflowed with political symbolism and stunning patriotic scenery. It began with a dramatic drop from the sky in a Marine helicopter to an airport runway flanked by the towering Grand Teton Mountains, and it ended with Mr. Bush leaping off a Western-style wagon, loaded with hay bales, to pump hands and kiss children.
But substance sometimes seemed lacking. He seemed unable to offer any detailed answer to some of the frustrations that he raised in his speech. Asking, "What do you say to an elderly woman" who is afraid to leave her home, or a child who must pass through metal detectors to go to school, the President answered his own question by responding: "You say, 'Enough is enough!' And, 'Let's put an end to the lawlessness.' "
His campaign chairman, Robert M. Teeter, who is accompanying Mr. Bush on a two-day swing through Wyoming and Utah, said the President's message today began a strong White House push to lure Mr. Perot's backers to the Republican cause.
He dismissed new opinion polls that show Mr. Clinton leading Mr. Bush by as many as 22 percentage points, noting that Mr. Bush had trailed his Democratic foe by 17 points at this time in 1988 and still won in a walk.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush made an appeal to supporters of Ross Perot yesterday, then helped himself at a barbecue in Jackson, Wyo. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTHERN STATES (US); WYOMING UNITED STATES (94%); WYOMING, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); TRAVEL, PERSONAL US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ABORTION (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (60%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); PEROT, ROSS; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); AL GORE (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



558 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: A Hard Sell;
People in Advertising Aren't Surprised Perot Didn't Stay

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Ross Perot's withdrawal from the race for the Presidency came as little surprise to advertising executives and people who study the field. The problems that pressured Mr. Perot into withdrawing, they said yesterday, can be comprehended if the selling of a candidate is compared to the selling of a product.
Eugene Secunda, a professor of marketing at Baruch College in New York, likened Mr. Perot's experience to what happens "in almost any consumer-product category you look at, like automobiles or soft drinks." 
 He added, "The same immutable rules of marketing applied to Ross Perot."
Mr. Secunda advised thinking of Mr. Perot as a new product, trying to persuade consumers to switch from two familiar brands -- President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton -- they were already considering buying.
"He misjudged what it takes to introduce an unknown brand into a category," he said, "where there are established brands already holding market share."
 
Issues of Spending
 The primary misjudgment came in advertising spending, said Bill Koenigsberg, president of Horizon Media in New York, a company that buys commercial time and print ad space for products like Carvel ice cream and Shasta soft drinks.
Mr. Perot, who had already spent $10 million on his nascent campaign, had said he was willing to spend a total of $100 million, including the costs of advertising. Mr. Koenigsberg said that even such a huge sum might have been too low.
By analyzing the spending of recent third-party Presidential candidates, Mr. Koenigsberg estimated that Mr. Perot would have needed to spend roughly $153 million to attract enough votes to win. Mr. Koenigsberg's formula involved calculating the cost per vote for George Wallace in 1968 and John Anderson in 1980, based on what they spent on advertising, adjusted for inflation.
Mr. Secunda said that even for someone who was ready to spend $100 million, Mr. Perot was acting "as if he was already established and could afford to coast." Spending on political ads was a constant source of tension between Mr. Perot and advisers.
And before Mr. Perot withdrew, news reports said he had balked at the cost of proposed commercials and complained he could get them produced for far less.
"Newcomers always claim they can get it done for 49 cents a commercial," Mr. Secunda said. "It's a classic mistake amateurs make."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ADVERTISING; FINANCES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); BRANDING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); MARKET SHARE (73%); SOFT DRINKS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; ELLIOTT, STUART BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN ANDERSON (53%); R JOHN ANDERSON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



559 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Prices of Long-Term Bonds Drop Sharply

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Bond prices fell sharply yesterday, pushed lower by a regional Federal Reserve bank survey of manufacturers in the Mid-Atlantic region that was stronger than expected, a big drop in the value of the dollar and a negative reaction to opinion polls that show Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas holds a commanding lead over President Bush.
Much of the trading, which was fairly heavy, was done by dealers, market participants said. 
 "There is a Friday phenomenon during the summer that portfolio managers and bond mutual funds tend not to be around," one government securities trader said. "In that sort of environment, there is a pattern for the dealer community to flatten up their positions for the weekend."
The dollar's slide began in earnest after the Commerce Department reported that the nation's trade deficit widened for the third straight month in May, to $7.4 billion.
Results of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia's survey of local manufacturers also came as a surprise.
The July survey showed a marked acceleration in activity from June levels.
Another unwelcome sign of strength to bond investors came from public opinion polls showing that Governor Clinton emerged from the Democratic Convention with a lead of nearly 2 to 1 over President Bush.
Bond investors fear a victory by the Democrats in the fall would lead to a significant increase in the size of the Federal budget deficit.
Virtually all the decline in prices was concentrated among long-term issues. Short- to intermediate-term maturities were little changed.
"It's the same story we have had for months now," said Steven Slifer, an executive vice president and financial market economist at Lehman Brothers.
"The long end underperforms, intermediates do O.K. and the short end is firm because economic statistics remain weak, and the prospect of another easing move by the Fed remains in place. As a consequence, the yield curve continues to steepen relentlessly."
 
Long Bond Yields 7.68%
 In the secondary market for Treasury securities, the 8 percent 29 1/2-year bonds of 2021 were offered late yesterday at a price of 10322/32 , down 27/32 , to yield 7.68 percent, compared with 7.60 percent on Thursday and 7.62 percent on July 10.
Among outstanding Treasury note issues, the 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 1049/32 , down 10/32 to yield 6.89 percent. And the 5 percent two-year notes were offered at 10113/32 , down 2/32 , to yield 4.23 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates were little changed.
Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 3.15 percent late yesterday, down 1 basis point, or one-hundredth of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates were unchanged at a late offered rate of 3.20 percent.
Activity was very slow in the corporate and municipal bond markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (84%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MIDDLE ATLANTIC STATES (US) UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME PRICE CHANGES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); YIELD CURVE (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); BUDGETS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); STATISTICS (68%); BOND FUNDS (59%); GOVERNORS (58%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



560 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Mostly Lower As Trade Data Add to Woes

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell against major currencies yesterday in what traders described as the latest of several days of bad news for the dollar and the American economy.
Trading was dominated this week by speculation, confirmed on Thursday, that the German central bank would raise its discount rate at the expense of the dollar. 
 The Government reported yesterday that the United States trade deficit widened to $7.38 billion in May, which was more than the market had anticipated. There was also a 2.5 percent drop in exports in May.
"I think what we've seen happening is that the trade data came on the Friday of a week of negative news for the dollar," said David Jacques, a senior dealer at Barclays Bank.
John Painow, a trader with Chemical New York Capital Markets, agreed that the news of the week had been bad for the dollar, along with President Bush's fall in the polls.
He added that the market does not like election-year uncertainty, and dealers are not clear about what effect the election of the Democratic Presidential nominee, Gov. Bill Clinton, would have on the market.
Jay Tucker, a trader with First Boston, went a step further, saying the dollar's fall in several markets, coupled with falling stocks and a rally in gold, indicated a classic shift to haven investments.
"What we seem to be seeing here is a liquidation of U.S. assets, which is led by dollars," Mr. Tucker said. "The dollar has not bounced in weeks. It has gone down without any type of move up."
In Tokyo, the dollar settled at 125.28 yen yesterday, up from 124.93 on Thursday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.9515, from $1.9375 late on Thursday. The pound closed at $1.9510 in New York, more expensive than $1.9395 on Thursday.
Other closing prices in New York, compared with late on Thursday, included: 1.3015 Swiss francs, down from 1.3285; 1,109 Italian lire, down from 1,121.50; 4.9325 French francs, down from 4.9910, and 1.18915 Canadian dollars, down from 1.19165.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BARC (LSE) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); ALBANY, NY, USA (55%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS BANK PLC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (52%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%); ALBANY, NY, USA (55%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CHEMICALS TRADE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); GOLD MARKETS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (75%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



561 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Delegates Leave Behind A Satisfied New York City

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
Hundreds of delegates checked out of their hotels yesterday and headed home, leaving behind beaming city officials who declared that the Democratic National Convention had changed the way the world sees New York.
The exodus of delegates produced luggage-cart gridlock at the New York Sheraton Hotel and Towers, one of the headquarters hotels for convention delegates -- the front entrance was briefly blocked by carts until a bellman cleared a path. But as the day went on, the city returned to its regular rhythms after a week of political hoopla at Madison Square Garden and carefully staged events in other parts of the city. 
 Police officers who had massed on street corners near the Garden all week went back to their regular posts in Manhattan and other boroughs. So did Transit Authority workers who spent the week standing in midtown stations, answering delegates' questions about the subterranean labyrinth. At the Seventh Avenue subway station at 53d Street on the IND B, D and E lines, the token-booth clerk, Patricia Hinds, prepared to take down the sign that said, "For Madison Square Garden, take E train downtown to 34th Street-Penn Station." The message had been put up for delegates staying at the Sheraton, just above the station.
And once again, Madison Square Garden looked like a construction zone. A week after the carpenters put away their tools, workers began tearing apart the $20.8 million worth of renovations the Democrats had demanded. A small bulldozer demolished the special raised floor that had supported thousands of cheering delegates all week long. The podium where Gov. Bill Clinton delivered his acceptance speech on Thursday night was knocked down. Hundreds of telephone lines that had been installed just for the convention were ripped out.
 
Litter Left Behind
 Outside the Garden, the cleanup crews were scrubbing and shining the "public furniture," as the sanitation supervisor for the nonprofit 34th Street Partnership called the lampposts, fire hydrants and pay-telephone stands that had been off limits for the week, when the neighborhood was turned into a security zone.
"They may have brought more money to the area, but they also brought more litter than we expected," said Robert Ferrieri, the sanitation supervisor. He estimated that there was 25 percent more trash in the area than usual.
The city said it had collected three tons of paper for recycling from the Garden area. Sanitation Department officials said they could not tell how much litter they had picked up from the streets.
With many delegates raving about their week in New York City, saying the city seemed cleaner than they had expected and the people friendlier, officials said the convention had achieved their main objective by being "good for our economy and good for our image," as Mayor David N. Dinkins put it.
 
City's Image Polished
 Whether the convention will generate long-term gains for the tourist business remains to be seen -- hotel occupancy figures for July will not be available until September. But Marshall Murdaugh, the executive director of the New York City Convention and Visitors Bureau, was optimistic.
"The convention helped dispel the myth of the unfriendly New Yorker," he said. "These delegates felt welcomed by New York, and that's important because the No. 1 way to attract visitors is not through advertising or direct mail, it's through word of mouth, and the word of mouth has never been more positive."
But not from everyone.
"It's so polluted, it makes my face break out," said Donna Bragg, a co-anchor from KFSM-TV in Fort Smith, Ark., when asked what she thought of New York. "I have a friend from New Jersey who said they've really cleaned the city up. I said, 'This is clean?' "
And Marion Garcia of Houston, a Texas delegate, said he was assigned to a hotel room that was already occupied -- by a woman who came out of the shower to open the door for him as he tried to make the room key work. "I guess she assumed I was her husband," he said. "I jumped back and said, 'Lady, at least you didn't shoot.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor David N. Dinkins, left, shaking hands yesterday with the Democratic Presidential nominee, Gov. Bill Clinton, has received compliments about both his city and his performance as host to the convention (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); After the speeches and hoopla ended, a worker at Madison Square Garden contemplated his plan for the last task of the Democratic convention yesterday: sweeping up placards and trash left by the delegates (John Sotomayor/The New York Times); For Larry Mavencamp and Carra George, looking out on midtown last Sunday from the top of their East 50th Street hotel, their first convention as delegates from Montana has been a memorable experience. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (93%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (57%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTION

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); MAYORS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); PAPER & PACKAGING (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



562 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT NEW YORK;
Business Made Easy, Or Easier At Least

BYLINE: By Douglas Martin

 BODY:
"IT'S still very much the old boys' network," said Heather Faulding, an architect who owns her own firm. "It's no picnic."
Ms. Faulding made the remark in a monthly meeting of female chief executive officers. They gather to chew over common problems, from collecting bills to marketing. What they don't discuss are the touchy-feely sorts of things men might imagine women would bring up in a support group. 
 They are too busy calculating how to make money in what some still imagine is a man-eat-man business world. But more than half the small businesses in the metropolitan area are owned by women, according to the business census, and the proportion continues to grow. To be sure, their role remains mainly at the very lowest rung, with businesses of significant size continuing to be dominated by men.
 These observations come from Rosalind S. Paaswell, president of the American Woman's Economic Development Corporation. The federally and privately financed group exists to aid the swelling number of female entrepreneurs. Each year, it counsels 3,000 businesswomen in the New York area, where the organization, which is now a national one, began in 1976.
Some 40 of these are company heads meeting in three local groups like this one. "Entrepreneurship is a very lonely undertaking," Ms. Paaswell said. "Every entrepreneur needs someone to talk to."
They rotate among their places of business. On Thursday night, they congregated in the Seventh Avenue offices of Ildi Marshall, a designer. Bottles of water and trays of fruit and cheese graced a makeshift board table.
Backgrounds varied. Ms. Marshall fled Hungary in 1956 with "a handbag and a change of underwear" and found a job packing hot dog rolls for $1 an hour. Nights, she studied design. Today her annual sales exceed $1.7 million.
Ms. Faulding emigrated from South Africa 14 years ago and has had her own business for four years. Janet Grossman, who was once a reservations agent for Pan Am, owns a business travel company with annual sales exceeding $5 million. Patricia Scordio owns a construction company with 18 employees that posted $1.6 million in sales last year.
Rita Troshynski, who moved here from Nebraska, has found a niche connecting artists with manufacturers. Pearl Mintzer has made a business of making things more visually attractive, from the Bloomingdale's fragrance department to boxes for leather goods.
The final participant was, of all things, a man, Diego Leiva, who was helped by an older man when he set off in business at 17. Once the seller of computer equipment had become wealthy, he asked the mentor how he could repay him. "Do unto others as I did unto you," he said.
So, for 2 1/2 years, Mr. Leiva has been leading groups like this one. "I get nothing other than to see them succeed," he said.
The discussion began with Ms. Grossman saying she would miss the next meeting because of a bar mitzvah in London. She had unsuccessfully tried to get the date of the bar mitzvah changed. It was agreed she could participate by means of a conference call.
She then told the happy news that she had brought in four new accounts worth $500,000 annually since the last meeting. The bad news followed: the bank had called her $24,000 note.
Mr. Leiva urged her to take a lawyer to the bank meeting, not just her accountant as she had intended. This stirred support.
"Make a big show," Ms. Scordio said. "I don't think they expect that."
Mr. Leiva then interceded with the general thought that all the women should be working from detailed, up-to-date business plans. He said computer programs to write them are available for $99. "There are a thousand good ideas out there," he declared. "The problem is the execution."
Ms. Marshall brought up her difficulties collecting bills, and participants suggested using a buyer's credit card. Ms. Scordio described how an employee had asked for a raise she had intended to give later, and received a battery of welcome advice. Ms. Mintzer complained about buyers knocking off her creations but was rebuked by Mr. Leiva for not having written an ironclad contract.
"This is called a lesson in life," he said.
The discussion veered to a venture capital scheme that Ms. Troshynski needed to discuss. And so it went. These were women navigating waters once barred to their sex, but now frighteningly open to all. The stakes seemed huge.
"I'm alone," Ms. Marshall said. "My whole family's dead. I'm divorced. I have to stay in business to keep living."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN WOMEN'S ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%); NEW YORK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN WOMEN'S ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP NEW YORK (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS; WOMEN; ENTREPRENEURSHIP WOMEN (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (90%); MEN (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); CITIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (60%); COMPUTER & SOFTWARE STORES (50%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS; PAASWELL, ROSALIND S ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



563 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Investors Seeking Safety Drive Up Precious Metals

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Investors seeking a safe harbor from the slumping stock market and a falling dollar drove up prices of precious metals yesterday.
"It was a great end to a great week, if you're a bull," one analyst said. 
 Gold and other precious metals are traditionally seen as safer investments than paper assets in times of economic or political turmoil.
Prices rebounded from Thursday's fall when the market reacted negatively to Ross Perot's dropping out of the Presidential race and to signs of diplomatic efforts in South Africa, which operates some of the world's most productive gold and platinum mines.
At the Commodity Exchange in New York, August gold rose $4.80, to $358 an ounce, and September silver added 6.2 cents, to $3.99 an ounce.
At the New York Mercantile Exchange, October platinum soared $7.80, to $391.30 an ounce.
Ian MacDonald, dealer at Credit Suisse, said the rise in metals prices was attributable to the fall in the dollar and another, more fashionable factor.
"Jewelry demand overseas is really getting strong, running at an all time high," he said.
In the platinum market, sensitivity to events in South Africa remained acute. A general strike is set there for Aug. 3.
"Despite talk of diffusion of tensions in South Africa, this move underscores the concern in the market," said James Steel of Refco Inc. "Anxieties over tension spilling over into the mining sector remain omnipresent."
Copper prices retreated, despite news that Polish copper miners will begin a strike next week.
September copper lost 1.15 cents, to 115.20 cents a pound.
Oil prices also fell on profit taking, particularly in the gasoline market.
"It started off as profit taking and once it got going, we saw some fresh selling," said Peter Beutel, energy director at Pegasus Econometric Inc.
August oil dropped 21 cents, to $21.58 a barrel; August gasoline fell 1.12 cents, to 59.83 cents a gallon, and August heating oil lost 0.23 cent, to 59.89 cents a gallon.
Corn prices extended an eight-day string of losses set off by widespread rains in the Midwest that has chopped 15 cents a bushel off the December contract's price.
The rains have created ideal conditions for the corn and soybean crops, which were suffering through a spring dry spell.
At the Chicago Board of Trade, December corn declined 1.5 cents, to $2.32 3/4 a bushel. November soybeans, which fell for the fifth consecutive trading day, declined another 3.5 cents, to $5.65 3/4 a bushel. July wheat gained 2.75 cents, to $3.48 1/2 a bushel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (66%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (51%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); REFCO INC (66%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; CURRENCY; METALS AND MINERALS PLATINUM MARKETS (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COPPER INDUSTRY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); COPPER MINING (74%); MINE WORKERS (74%); MINES & MINING (74%); PLATINUM GROUP METALS MINING (74%); BONDS (74%); HEATING OIL (73%); FINE JEWELRY (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (66%); CORN FARMING (61%); SOYBEAN FARMING (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (56%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



564 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Dips

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
A survey prepared by the University of Michigan indicates that consumers' confidence in the economy slipped in early July, people who get the subscription-only report on the survey said yesterday.
They said that the survey -- keenly watched by financial markets -- showed that the sentiment index fell to 77.1 percent in early July from 80.4 percent for the whole of June. Its index of consumer expectations, used by the Federal Government as part of its leading-economic-indicators report, fell to 67.1 percent from 70.7 percent, they said, while the index of current economic conditions fell to 92.7 percent from 95.4 percent. 
 All the figures indicate a depressed consumer view of the state of the economy.
By contrast, a survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia released yesterday showed manufacturers in that area a lot less gloomy about the economy this month. Its index for current conditions rose to 27.0 in July from 10.9 last month.
"This is the highest increase since April 1988," said John Canavan, an analyst at Stone & McCarthy Research Associaties Inc. "It is pretty strong."
"Signs of improvement everywhere are pretty weak," Mr. Canavan cautioned. "Everything's showing a real tepid rise."
The University of Michigan's index is closely guarded by its tabulators, none of whom will comment on it. It is composed of three indexes -- consumer sentiment, current economic conditions and consumer expectations. Financial markets tend to focus on the consumer sentiment portion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (69%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (93%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SURVEYS AND SERIES; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); 

PERSON: JOHN CANAVAN (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



565 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 18, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: More Jobs, Jobs, Jobs

BYLINE: By Roger C. Altman and Arthur Levitt Jr.; Roger C. Altman is co-chairman of the Mayor's Management Advisory Task Force. Arthur Levitt Jr. is chairman of its committee on incentives and tax policy.

 BODY:
Pessimism over New York City's future runs deep. Most people predict a continued exodus of businesses and taxpayers. Apparently the experts have not visited Pittsburgh, which has made a strong comeback over the past year. A key reason is its aggressive approach to economic development. Yes, it has pockets of poverty but has rebuilt an economic core that provides job opportunity.
In May, Mayor David Dinkins's Management Advisory Task Force compared Pittsburgh's economic plans to New York's, found ours inadequate and suggested sweeping changes. Our main proposal is the establishment of a development bank that has substantial financing for long-term, job-intensive projects and is insulated from politics as effectively as possible. We are negotiating with financing sources to try to create one. 
 New York has been severely underspending on economic development. Despite a $29 billion operating budget and a $4 billion capital budget, the city spent only $84 million directly on development last year. The immense pressures for spending for social purposes crowd out development. Pittsburgh's direct spending on projects that create jobs has been 10 times higher than ours per capita.
Cities with the most successful redevelopment records have worked closely with business and leading nonprofit organizations. Unlike New York, they plan all aspects of development with the private sector.
In 1982, Pittsburgh formed an Urban Redevelopment Authority that plans and finances large projects and is a good model for New York. It has an independent board and a history of independent operations. It sells its own bonds but is connected to the city government because it gets Federal and state monies. One recent project is the Pittsburgh Technology Center, a downtown industrial park for research and light-manufacturing businesses, which is projected to create 11,000 jobs.
By contrast, New York City's Economic Development Corporation and the state's Urban Development Corporation are out of money. They depend on their respective legislatures for funds, getting them only in a crisis. For example, when several commodity exchanges threatened to leave New York, the money to subsidize a new location was found. But far-sighted projects like building a biotechnology center together with Columbia University wait for 10 years or more.
The only solution lies in a new organization whose governance and financing are less politically dependent. Its equity must be obtained on a long-term, not year-to-year, basis.
We are negotiating with the city, the Municipal Assistance Corporation and corporate pension funds on multi-year commitments for $150 million in equity. We are also seeking a semi-independent board and management; at least half the directors would be business leaders appointed for fixed terms. These negotiations are not easy because legislatures usually want tight control over the use of money, but the bank would succeed only if it were semi-autonomous.
Once the equity was committed, it would be leveraged by selling bonds in the capital markets. Initially, the city would guarantee the bonds, but by receiving a portion of each project's cash flow, the bank eventually would become self-supporting.
Some believe that large-scale development ignores the most disadvantaged neighborhoods and their small businesses. But we found that central business districts are crucial to creating jobs across the entire income spectrum. Manhattan creates more than a third of the city's jobs, through direct employment and multiplier effects, and this is where the bank would concentrate initially.
The city's economy is not going to recover strongly on its own. An initiative to rekindle the growth of jobs is sorely needed; without them, the best social policies can't succeed. But there is a financing gap to be faced, and development banking can fill it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (52%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); MAYORS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (64%); COMMODITIES TRADING (50%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, ROGER C; LEVITT, ARTHUR JR DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1992



566 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 30; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: July 19, 1992

 BODY:

 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction	 	 	 	 	 1		1	GERALD'S GAME, by Stephen King. (Viking, $23.50.) Twenty-eight hours of horror suffered by a woman chained to a bedpost after her husband suffers a heart attack.	 	 	 	 	 2	1	19	THE PELICAN BRIEF, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $22.50.) A woman law student seeks to discover the truth about the murder of two Supreme Court justices.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	8	WAITING TO EXHALE, by Terry McMillan. (Viking, $22.) The friendships and romances of four black women in Phoenix.	 	 	 	 	 4	2	4	SCRUPLES TWO, by Judith Krantz. (Crown, $22.) Continuing the story of the crowd that frequents an ultrachic Beverly Hills store. (LP)	 	 	 	 	 5	4	7	DARK FORCE RISING, by Timothy Zahn. (Spectra/Bantam, $18.50.) An insane Jedi threatens Luke Skywalker in the second volume of a "Star Wars" trilogy.	 	 	 	 	 6	6	5	POSSESSING THE SECRET OF JOY, by Alice Walker. (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $19.95.) The struggles of an African woman to come to terms with the consequences of female circumcision.	 	 	 	 	 7	5	10	JEWELS, by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $23.) The life of a woman who becomes rich by dealing in precious stones. (LP)	 	 	 	 	 8		2	FATHERLAND, by Robert Harris. (Random House, $21.) A thriller set in the Third Reich 20 years after Hitler wins World War II.	 	 	 	 	 9	7	9	SAHARA, by Clive Cussler. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) On a mission to Africa, Dirk Pitt uncovers a plot that may extinguish all life in the world's seas.	 	 	 	 	10	10	5	DOUBLE DEUCE, by Robert B. Parker. (Putnam, $19.95.) Spenser joins his old friend Hawk to investigate murders in a Boston housing project.	 	 	 	 	11 *	9	117	OH, THE PLACES YOU'LL GO! by Dr. Seuss. (Random House, $12.95.) Verse and pictures.	 	 	 	 	12 *	8	13	ALL AROUND THE TOWN, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) The plight of a college student accused of killing her professor.	 	 	 	 	13		1	EYE OF THE STORM, by Jack Higgins. (Putnam, $22.95.) An American is hired by the British to thwart an Iraqi agent's attempt to kill Margaret Thatcher during the gulf war.	 	 	 	 	14 *		1	COLONY, by Anne Rivers Siddons. (HarperCollins, $20.) A 90-year-old South Carolina woman recalls what she saw while becoming the doyenne of a Maine summer retreat.	 	 	 	 	15	13	6	ALL THE PRETTY HORSES, by Cormac McCarthy. (Knopf, $21.) The adventures of a 16-year-old vaquero from Texas in the Mexico of 1950.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	3	DIANA: HER TRUE STORY, by Andrew Morton. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) A biography of the Princess of Wales.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	8	THE SILENT PASSAGE, by Gail Sheehy. (Random House, $16.) The psychological and social significance of menopause for today's women.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	5	TRUMAN, by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) A biography of the 33d President.	 	 	 	 	 4	4	4	SAM WALTON: MADE IN AMERICA, by Sam Walton with John Huey. (Doubleday, $22.50.) The autobiography of the man who became the richest American by creating the Wal-Mart store chain.	 	 	 	 	 5	6	8	DIANA IN PRIVATE, by Lady Colin Campbell. (St. Martin's, $19.95.) A biography of the Princess of Wales.	 	 	 	 	 6	8	3	A BRILLIANT MADNESS, by Patty Duke and Gloria Hochman. (Bantam, $22.50.) The actress tells how she learned to live with manic-depressive illness.	 	 	 	 	 7	7	11	HEAD TO HEAD, by Lester Thurow. (Morrow, $25.) The upcoming economic battle among Japan, Europe and the United States.	 	 	 	 	 8	5	7	PEROT, by Todd Mason. (Business One Irwin, $16.95.) An unauthorized biography of Ross Perot.	 	 	 	 	 9	10	5	ACQUIRED TASTES, by Peter Mayle. (Bantam, $20.) Essays on the pleasures of living extravagantly during the high-flying 1980's.	 	 	 	 	10		1	LINCOLN AT GETTYSBURG, by Garry Wills. (Simon & Schuster, $23.) The address delivered on Nov. 19, 1863, and how it has affected American life.	 	 	 	 	11	14	11	WHO WILL TELL THE PEOPLE, by William Greider. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) How powerful monied interests dominate the Government.	 	 	 	 	12 *		1	THE HAPPY ISLES OF OCEANIA, by Paul Theroux. (Putnam, $24.95.) An 18-month exploration of the South Pacific in a one-man kayak.	 	 	 	 	13	11	25	REVOLUTION FROM WITHIN, by Gloria Steinem. (Little, Brown, $22.95.) The reflections of a feminist on the struggle to achieve self-esteem.	 	 	 	 	14	9	13	GIVE WAR A CHANCE, by P. J. O'Rourke. (Atlantic Monthly, $20.95.) Satirical essays.	 	 	 	 	15	13	9	ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, by Blanche Wiesen Cook. (Viking, $27.50.) The first 49 years of a pre-eminent First Lady.	 	 	 	 	16 *		1	DIANA: A PRINCESS AND HER TROUBLED MARRIAGE, by Nicholas Davies. (Birch Lane/ Carol, $21.95.) A biography of the Princess of Wales.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 	 1	1	22	A RETURN TO LOVE, by Marianne Williamson. (HarperCollins, $25.) Ways to replace feelings of fear with feelings of love in daily life.	 	 	 	 	 2	4	33	HOW TO SATISFY A WOMAN EVERY TIME, by Naura Hayden. (Bibli O'Phile/Dutton, $14.95.) Sexual counsel for married couples.	 	 	 	 	 3	2	5	LIFE'S LITTLE INSTRUCTION BOOK, by H. Jackson Brown Jr. (Rutledge Hill, $12.95.) Some 500 tips for achieving a self-fulfilling life.	 	 	 	 	 4		1	HARVEY PENICK'S LITTLE RED BOOK, by Harvey Penick with Bud Shrake. (Simon & Schuster, $19.) Anecdotes and tips about playing golf by a legendary teacher.	 	 	 	 	 5	3	13	THE JUICEMAN'S POWER OF JUICING, by Jay Kordich. (Morrow, $15.) A program for staying healthy and trim by consuming fresh fruit and vegetable juices.	
 
These listings are based on computer-processed sales figures from 3,050 bookstores and from representative wholesalers with more than 28,000 other retail outlets, including variety stores and supermarkets. The figures are statistically adjusted to represent sales in all such outlets across the United States.
 
*An asterisk before a book's title indicates that its sales, weighted to reflect the book-selling industry nationally, are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
LP indicates that a book is available in large print.
And Bear in Mind
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
THE END OF EQUALITY, by Mickey Kaus. (Basic Books, $25.) Mr. Kaus, an editor of The New Republic, argues boldly and radically that the present welfare system, corrupt and corrupting, should be eliminated and replaced by a guaranteed jobs program.
DESTINY'S JOURNEY, by Alfred Doblin. Edited by Edgar Passler. (Paragon House, $24.95.) This important, nourishing memoir by the author of "Berlin Alexanderplatz" looks at human nature under stress and its recuperative powers in two major episodes: Doblin's flight from Germany to America and his return in 1945.
MEETING EVIL, by Thomas Berger. (Little, Brown, $19.95.) In Mr. Berger's 18th novel, a good-enough man's life is taken over by a bad-as-possible man who suddenly shows up on the doorstep.
IMPOSSIBLE VACATION, by Spalding Gray. (Knopf, $22.) An exercise in the neurotic picaresque, this glum, hilarious first-person novel, with its self-absorbed protagonist, has the rambling, confessional feel of Mr. Gray's customary performance pieces.
THE STOLEN HOUSE, by Bernard L. Herman. (University Press of Virginia, cloth, $35; paper, $16.95.) An account of an 1812 lawsuit leads to a historian's fascinating examination of economic life when most Americans were poor and the few rich knew no shame.
TROMBONE, by Craig Nova. (Grove Weidenfeld, $20.95.) Mr. Nova's restrained, skillful novel exposes a young man who only wants life to be ordinary to the perils of trying to save his father, his friends and himself from an array of extraordinary menaces.
BASTARD OUT OF CAROLINA, by Dorothy Allison. (Dutton, $20.) This first novel, precise and terrible in the details of poverty and meanness, follows its title character to the age of 13, when a dreadful trauma persuades her that her life is finished.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (69%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (69%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); WOMEN (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); WORLD WAR II (71%); DESERT STORM (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); HOMICIDE (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (55%); OCEANS (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (58%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



567 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy

BYLINE: BY LAUREL GRAEBER

 BODY:
A VERY THIN LINE: The Iran-Contra Affairs, by Theodore Draper. (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $16.) Mr. Draper's concern is that very fine line that separates legitimate from illegitimate use of our Government's power. The Iran-contra affairs, he concludes, were the most startling contemporary example of the latter. Last year our reviewer, Tom Wicker, found this book "meticulous and disturbing," "the most exhaustive examination" of the Iran-contra events.
WARTIME LIES, by Louis Begley. (Ivy, $4.99.) Only the most elaborate kinds of deceit could rescue Maciek, this novel's Polish Jewish narrator, from the horrors of the Holocaust. A middle-aged man when the story begins, he relates his boyhood flight from the Nazis, which he made in the company of his Aunt Tania, a high-spirited young woman. Her quick wits and imaginative acting helped save their lives, but not Maciek's faith and innocence. This is a "masterly first novel," Judith Grossman said here last year. "It seems no less than justice that Maciek and Tania should be given their honorable place . . . in fiction, where lies may be reconciled with truth." 
 ROME AND A VILLA, by Eleanor Clark. (Harper Perennial, $12.) Like the city it celebrates, this book endures. Published 40 years ago, expanded and reissued in 1974, this combination history and memoir has been given a new preface. In 1952 our reviewer, Katherine Anne Porter, said, "With her genius for attention, observation and recording, [Ms. Clark] sees with beautiful accuracy the differences between things."
THE MIRACLE GAME, by Josef Skvorecky. Translated by Paul Wilson. (Norton, $10.95.) This novel spans the period between two crises of faith, one fictional, one real: the controversy following the supposed movement of a statue of St. Joseph in a rural church in Czechoslovakia in 1949, and the democracy-crushing Soviet occupation some 20 years later. These events are seen through the eyes of the narrator, a roguish but good-hearted Czech named Danny. Mr. Skvorecky "is honorable enough to offer no solutions here, only a work of literature, of bitter gravity and of bitter mirth," Angela Carter said in The Book Review last year.
HIS EYE IS ON THE SPARROW: An Autobiography, by Ethel Waters with Charles Samuels. (Da Capo, $13.95.) Born in poverty to a 13-year-old rape victim, Ethel Waters became a chambermaid, then a vaudevillian and ultimately, a stage and film star. When this 1951 best seller was first published, our reviewer, Ruth Chatterton, said: "I felt as if I had been curled up in front of a fire listening as [she] bared her soul. . . . I listened enthralled."
A GLIMPSE OF SCARLET: And Other Stories, by Roxana Robinson. (Harper Perennial, $10.) New York City and its environs are the setting for many of these 14 stories, which revolve around familial love that is often threatened and sometimes regained. This is a "stunning first collection," Bret Lott said here last year. "Ms. Robinson may be John Cheever's heir apparent."
THE MAN WHO KNEW INFINITY: A Life of the Genius Ramanujan, by Robert Kanigel. (Washington Square/Pocket Books, $12.) The brief life of Srinivasa Ramanujan (1887-1920), a poor Brahmin from rural India who became one of the most important contributors to number theory, is "one of the most romantic stories in the history of mathematics," our reviewer, John Allen Paulos, said last year. He added that this book is one "even a complete innumerate can enjoy."
THE TIME AND THE PLACE: And Other Stories, by Naguib Mahfouz. Selected and translated by Denys Johnson-Davies. (Anchor, $8.50.) These 20 stories by the Egyptian Nobel laureate take place in Cairo, but their characters are often transported to other territories through dreams and death. Last year, one critic noted that "Mahfouz uses an economical, simple style to create worlds exotically different from ours yet bound by universal home truths."
THE RITUALS OF DINNER: The Origins, Evolution, Eccentricities, and Meaning of Table Manners, by Margaret Visser. (Penguin, $12.50.) According to Ms. Visser, most tableside etiquette exists to undercut the potential violence inherent in mealtime, when humans gather together with sharp implements to indulge a very basic appetite. "The book progresses like a feast," Molly O'Neill said here last year. "Read it, because you'll never look at a table knife the same way again."
THE TRANSPARENT MAN, by Anthony Hecht. (Knopf, $10.) Beauty, even natural beauty, is cruel in the poems of Anthony Hecht, who explores the grimness and decay beneath the surface of the familiar. In 1990 our reviewer, William Logan, observed that "his dry and melancholy authority has been a brilliant counterirritant to the wastage of our language." Knopf has also reissued Mr. Hecht's COLLECTED EARLIER POEMS ($15), which includes the complete text of his 1968 Pulitzer Prize winner, "The Hard Hours."
YOU MAY PLOW HERE: The Narrative of Sara Brooks, edited by Thordis Simonsen. (Norton, $8.95.) Sara Brooks, a black American, led an ordinary life with extraordinary will: born in 1911 to a struggling Alabama farmer, she became a cleaning woman and union organizer who managed to support five children. This book, consisting of her reminiscences as told over 10 years to the daughter of her Cleveland employers, is a "much-needed addition to our expanding knowledge of American social history," our reviewer, Frances Smith Foster, said in 1986.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Louis Begley (Anka Muhlstein)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PAPERBACK BOOKS; BOOK TRADE BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (88%); LITERATURE (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); HOLOCAUST (74%); 

PERSON: GRAEBER, LAUREL THOMAS GREY 'TOM' WICKER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



568 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14; Column 5; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 5062 words

HEADLINE: Why Paris Works

BYLINE: By Steven Greenhouse; Steven Greenhouse was a correspondent in The New York Times Paris bureau for five years and recently joined the Washington bureau.

 BODY:
In a hidden, walled-off area, just west of the Boulevard St.-Michel, Paul Rissel looks like a figure borrowed from the 19th century as he opens the door to the lush greenhouse. Wearing a rough brown tweed sport coat and a long camel-colored scarf, he pushes past some ficus and stops next to a dozen unobtrusive black trays. These trays, he points out, are one of the secrets behind the ageless beauty of Paris's ornate Jardin du Luxembourg, which was built for Queen Marie de Medicis some 370 years ago. Rissel, one of the two chief gardeners, explains that the trays produce seedlings for the tens of thousands of geraniums, dahlias and petunias that the Jardin's 80 gardeners meticulously replant each May around the majestic central fountain.
The resplendent array of flowers gives the garden the idyllic air of a Renoir painting. During the gentle rains of spring, lovers stroll hand in hand, and when the sun breaks through, 5-year-olds scamper around the fountain to chase after their toy sailboats. 
 "People just love this garden," says Rissel, with a pride nurtured by 38 years of working at the Jardin. "In most big cities, the natives lack contact with nature, and that's what we're trying to give them."
A soft-spoken man with soft hands and long gray sideburns, Rissel heads a small army of gardeners. Each year they plant or transplant 350,000 flowers, and each spring they cart out 150 palm and orange trees, some of them 200 years old, that were lovingly sheltered from the winter cold.
At a time when cities from Lagos to Los Angeles are afflicted by homelessness, crime and budget traumas, Paris's famed garden is an oasis from urban turmoil. Mayors around the world may be screaming for cash, but the Jardin du Luxembourg is awash in money. It boasts more than one gardener per acre, which allows for an attention to detail and beauty that is rare in modern cities. One gardener devoted two full months to scooping out the rot from the trunk of a beech tree that the gardeners were eager to save because it stood eloquently alongside a small Bartholdi Statue of Liberty. "We function like the gardeners of an old house of the bourgeoisie," Rissel says. "We do much more by hand."
Rissel and the garden he nurses are just one gilded strand in the tapestry of cobbled streets, quaint quays and medieval churches that make Paris one of the world's most beautiful, best-run cities. Although many cities appear to be breaking down from poverty and decaying infrastructure, Paris seems to be improving with age.
FOR MANY OF THE CITY'S 2.2 million residents and many of the 20 million tourists who visit each year, Paris remains a magical, even transcendent, place. While many Americans shun their own cities as if they were places suffering from the plague, Paris is a city with which countless people still have a passionate love affair.
The people who run Paris know that if their city relied on just the charms of its past, it would lose its magic. Thus, they have sought to superimpose a smoothly running, modern metropolis on the city bequeathed them by medieval kings and 18th-century revolutionaries. And they have succeeded royally.
Garbage is picked up seven days a week, mail is delivered three times a day and all of Paris's 800 miles of streets are swept by hand each day. At rush hour, the subways come once every 80 seconds, and many Metro stops are decorated with mosaics and murals. Affluent families are rushing not to flee for the suburbs, but to buy apartments in Paris's choicest neighborhoods and to send their children to public schools.
There is no single explanation for why Paris works so well. Rather, Paris has become a shining model for urban planners thanks to numerous ingredients lacking in many other cities: ample financing, sound administration, farsighted planning, technological ingenuity, a flair for design and an ambition to always improve.
It would be wrong to single out Paris from other French cities as a success story, because Toulouse, Lyons, Nice, Bordeaux and Strasbourg have worked just as hard to keep their beauty, build a vibrant cultural life and remain attractive for families. Nonetheless, Paris, whose metropolitan area includes 10.5 million people (one-fifth of France's population), is undeniably the Olympus of French cities.
Parisians have two major complaints. Traffic congestion has created a miasma of noise, pollution and stress, helping to make Paris's high-strung population even more irritable. The other is that crime is growing, although the roughest parts of Paris seem no more dangerous than the safest parts of many American cities. Paris had 80 murders last year, compared with 482 in Washington, which has about one-fourth the population.
Homelessness is another problem, although it does not seem one of the Parisians' main concerns, perhaps because the city has long romanticized the clochards who sleep along the Seine. The homeless, estimated at between 6,000 and 15,000, can stay for up to six months in 60 government-run or private shelters where they receive free room, board, medical care and job training. Most go to these shelters voluntarily, but the police often round up sleeping drunks to protect them from the cold.
"Paris's streets are cleaner than American cities, its garbage is picked up more regularly, its streets are paved more often and its bureaucracy is more efficient," says Michel Rousseau, an economics professor who studies urban problems. "But all this costs a lot of money."
Fortunately for Paris, the national Government contributes more than half the city's revenues. Because the state pays so much, Paris's affluent families do not shoulder a huge fiscal burden of caring for the immigrants and poor living in the city. This is one reason Paris has not suffered from the middle-class flight that has hurt so many American cities.
As one urban planner puts it: "One reason Paris has so few problems is that the type of people who make problems can't afford to live in Paris." Economic realities force the poor to live in suburbs ringing Paris, but even there, in the ban lieue, the levels of poverty, violence and drugs are a fraction of those in American cities.
"Because of France's republican traditions, there is a real sense of solidarity, a real desire to help the less-well-off," says Roland Castro, director of the national Government's efforts to help the suburbs. "People often point to American cities as a model to avoid. They say, 'That can happen to us if we let things slide.' "
AT ONE OF THE 50 MAHOGANY TABLES under the gaze of two austere Chinese statues, Francois Dupin is scribbling on a napkin to explain why his cafe, Les Deux Magots, remains a mecca for Paris's beau monde. "The Chamber of Deputies is over there," says the short, dapper cafe manager, drawing a short black arrow to the west. "The students come from over there," he says, aiming an arrow to the east. "And all the artists and antique dealers come from down there." His last arrow points north to the Seine.
On the cream-colored wall behind him is a photograph of Simone de Beauvoir hunched over a table, writing at the famed cafe on the Boulevard St.-Germain. Nearby is a photo of a debonair, mustached young Ernest Hemingway, reading a newspaper at the cafe. Partly to imbibe the legend of such famous writers, partly to taste its flavorful coffee and atmosphere, camera-toting Japanese tourists, chain-smoking French intellectuals and lanky American Hemingway-wannabes crowd into Les Deux Magots each day. Many rush to the sidewalk tables, next to artists selling lithographs and in the shadow of the 12th-century towers of the church of St.-Germain-des-Pres.
"We're in a privileged neighborhood," Mr. Dupin says.
In one way or another all of Paris's 20 arrondissements, or districts, are privileged. The first arrondissement has the Palais Royal and Louvre; the fourth has the Place des Vosges and the Ile St.-Louis; the fifth has the Sorbonne; the sixth, the Jardin du Luxembourg and Ecole des Beaux-Arts; the seventh, the Invalides and the Eiffel Tower. The eighth is known for the Champs-Elysees, the Elysee Palace and world-famous shops like Hermes and Christian Lacroix. The ninth has the grandiose 19th-century Palais Garnier opera house, and the plush 16th is renowned for its opulent fin-de-siecle mansions.
Everyone wants to live in these neighborhoods, but only the privileged few need apply. One reason is that Paris is small, about half the size of Brooklyn. Rents have been pushed sky-high by limits on building heights and a shortage of land for new housing, caused in part by all the space used for parks, businesses and government. Not wanting Paris to become Manhattan-sur-Seine, the city's planners have generally limited building heights to seven stories in the historic center and relegated skyscrapers to the outskirts.
A two-bedroom apartment in central Paris often costs $2,500 a month, about the same as in Manhattan and some 60 percent more than in Chicago. Parking a car costs about $250 a month, roughly the same as in Manhattan. Cleaning a suit is around $15 and a good chicken runs $2.30 a pound. About the only things cheaper in Paris than in America are baguettes, Beaujolais and Christian Dior gowns.
"I love to live in Paris -- I love the possibilities it offers," says Francoise Romand, a 36-year-old film maker. "The Metro is great, the buses are great and the city's very safe. If you get lost anywhere, there's hardly any risk."
In her view, there is nowhere else to live in France for people in film. Paris gives her the cultural fix she needs day after day. She recently went to a dance concert by Dominique Bagouet's French troupe, an experimental farce about a restaurant, "Lapin Chasseur," and a rock concert at the Cigalle, one of Paris's hottest nightclubs. She also visited Sophie Calle's photography exhibit at the Museum of Modern Art and Nicholas Garnier's avant-garde show at an art gallery near the Boulevard Montparnasse.
And that's not to mention exhibitions at the Grand Palais, Louvre, Picasso Museum and Musee d'Orsay. The money the national and city governments spend on Paris's cultural life is probably equal to the overall budgets of some third world nations.
"The French remain very attached to the idea of culture and education," says Francoise Cachin, director of the Musee d'Orsay. She says that both the left and the right agree it is important to finance museums generously to improve Paris's cultural life and to keep the tourists coming.
"There is a rivalry between the national and city governments about who can sponsor the best shows," Cachin says. "It's very positive for the museums and museumgoers."
Notwithstanding the impressive array of museums and municipal services, Parisians' local taxes are not astronomical. The reason: L'Etat, the national Government, pays 40 percent of the city's $23 billion operating budget. The national Government also pays half of most large projects, like schools, sewers and day-care centers. In addition, the state finances Paris's public hospitals, covers almost all welfare costs and pays the salaries of Paris's 24,650 teachers and 26,000 police officers and firefighters.
"In almost every European country, the central Government plays an important role in supporting the cities," says Leo van den Berg, director of the European Institute for Comparative Urban Research at the University of Rotterdam. "Europe's cities are very dependent on central money, and not so much on local fiscal circumstances."
That the cost of running Paris is spread throughout France means the city's residents are not socked with exorbitant taxes, although overall the French pay a greater share of their income for national taxes than Americans do. Indeed, the main taxes in Paris -- the apartment tax and the business tax -- are lower than in many country towns, causing some provincial politicians to complain that they are subsidizing Paris's elite.
Paris is probably far more spoiled by the state than are other European cities because it is the seat of Government and the capital of French finance, industry, entertainment and mass communication. Not only that, it is the cradle of French culture and history, the city of Voltaire, Napoleon, Pasteur, Hugo, Proust, de Gaulle and Sartre.
No one will ever see a headline like "Mitterrand to Paris: Drop Dead," because one of President Francois Mitterrand's preoccupations is adding new baubles to the capital. The French press has dubbed him Mitterramses I because of the huge monuments he has built, including the $400 million Bastille Opera, the I. M. Pei glass pyramid at the Louvre, the gigantic new finance ministry and the 350-foot-tall Grande Arche de la Defense. And that doesn't include the $1.3 billion Bibliotheque de France that Mitterrand has commissioned, which is slated to be the world's largest library.
Mitterrand's presidential projects, with a price tag of $3 billion, follow similarly grandiose schemes by his predecessors: Valery Giscard d'Estaing masterminded the Musee d'Orsay and the Cite des Sciences museum, while Georges Pompidou fathered the Pompidou Center, the hugely popular art museum.
Although many critics deride these buildings as monuments to presidential egos, these projects have undeniably increased Paris's stature as a city of art, culture and architecture. The Musee d'Orsay, for instance, attracts almost four million visitors a year, and art critics from around the world have hailed its recent exhibitions on Seurat, Munch and Gauguin. The museum, which used to be a train station, was slated for demolition until President Giscard d'Estaing moved to save it. "It was a project that couldn't be done without the will of the State," says Cachin, the museum's director. "I can only rejoice."
TOURISTS strolling along Quai de Montebello near Notre Dame often pass a man in a green uniform who is intently sweeping the street with what looks like a large twig broom. Street cleaners like him are ubiquitous in Paris -- of the city's 38,000 employees, 4,500 are sweepers, most of them Arab or African immigrants. They sweep each of Paris's streets daily, and heavily trafficked business and tourist streets are swept twice.
All this work by hand shows Paris's efficiency, obsession with detail and willingness to spend money to achieve its goals. Each year Paris spends 10 percent of its budget, or about $2.2 billion, on cleanliness, which translates to $1,000 for every resident.
"The broom remains irreplaceable," says Alain Le Troquet, technical director for Paris's department of sanitation and the environment. "You can't do everything with a machine."
Astute observers will notice a curious thing. The brooms no longer have crude brown branches, but instead bright green plastic fingers. Engineers in Paris's sanitation department had long appreciated how efficiently peasants' twig brooms swept debris along, but they were frustrated by how much the brooms cost and how often the twigs broke.
So Paris's sanitation department, considered Europe's most innovative, asked manufacturers to develop a broom that used sturdy plastic fingers rather than wood. The new plastic brooms cost one-fifth as much as the wooden ones and last seven times as long.
This is just one way Paris's administrators have demonstrated their technological ingenuity. The city's water system churns out a foot-wide stream that runs alongside the city's curbs to wash away litter. Paris has worked with industry to develop a vehicle to clean up the animal oil left from all the poultry, rabbit and beef sold at open-air markets. Voila, the Gyrolave squirts steaming, swirling soapy water onto the pavement and then sweeps the street.
Another truck shoots compressed water under cars to remove the litter beneath them, while a second vehicle has long arms with five joints to pick up leaves. The newest vehicle has an elephantlike trunk that vacuums up sidewalk litter. The city soon hopes to introduce a robotic, unmanned version of this contraption.
"You have to give the French credit for being innovative," says van den Berg, the urban expert in Rotterdam.
Parisians say the city has become much cleaner since 1977 when Jacques Chirac became their first democratically elected mayor in a century. Previously Paris had been run by a prefect appointed by the Interior Minister, but residents often argued that a mayor held accountable in regular elections would be more attentive to their needs. (The prefect still runs the police department.)
When Parisians talk about cleanliness, their main complaint is canine excrement, notwithstanding the city's vaunted new motor scooters that vacuum up dog droppings. Not wanting to alienate dog owners, who represent a powerful voting bloc, the city for years refused to fine owners who did not clean up after their poodles. But with complaints growing, Philippe Galy, director of the department of sanitation and the environment, started ordering fines in May: $110 for the first offense and $230 for the second. "It's absurd," he says. "With all the serious environmental problems, like global warming, the ozone layer, Chernobyl and nuclear waste, it's unbelievable that the No. 1 subject of conversation at every Paris dinner party is dog doo."
PUBLIC HIGH school like Lycee Janson-de-Sailly, built with busts of Pascal, Hugo and other luminaries along its majestic 200-yard facade, simply does not exist in an American city. The 109-year-old institution is in the 16th arrondissement, the Paris equivalent of Park Avenue, and the bankers, diplomats and high government officials who live there scurry to send their children to Janson.
Janson has 3,200 students, a lengthy waiting list and a substantial number of students from Paris's rich western suburbs, who are attracted by the school's reputation. The school has 250 teachers, several of them accomplished novelists and historians. Janson's alumni include former President Giscard d'Estaing, former Prime Minister Laurent Fabius and the Attali twins -- Jacques, president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Bernard, chairman of Air France.
Its paint may be peeling, its long, primitive desks may be gnarled from decades of use and abuse, but its student body continues to excel. About 95 percent of Janson's graduates pass the forbidding, all-important bacca laureat examination that is the ticket to a university.
"The school is excellent in many ways," says Francoise Rietsch, who heads one of Janson's parent associations. "There is a lot of discipline, self-discipline, among the students."
Sitting behind the old wooden desk in her tidy office, Yvonne Cluzet, the school's earnest principal, makes clear that her main concern is academics and not the woes often associated with urban schools.
"Drugs just aren't a problem here," she says. "And we don't have problems with teen-age pregnancy. Our students are mature." The biggest problem she could think of was that two years ago bands of teen-agers from the suburbs stole pocketbooks, wallets and expensive coats from Janson students as they left school. The police quickly stopped it.
Janson and other Parisian schools do not suffer from a vicious cycle in which the middle class pulls its children out of public schools, tilting the balance toward poorer immigrant children and causing more middle-class families to send their children elsewhere.
Jean-Marie Demade, manager at a metallurgy company, moved his family from Rueil-Malmaison, a suburb, back to Paris so his son Julien could attend Janson. "I returned because of the quality of the education," he says. "And life for children is more interesting and lively in Paris, with the movies, museums, theaters and concerts, than it is in the suburbs."
Twenty-four percent of Paris's high-school students go to private schools. Parents choose those schools because they want their children to receive a religious education or because they have underachieving children and think that private schools will be stricter. The overachievers are sent to public schools like Janson, which, good as it is, doesn't even rank at the top of Paris's public lycees. Most teachers rate Louis-le-Grand and Henri IV even higher.
"The middle class flocking to private schools just isn't a problem here," says Michele Gendreau-Massalou, the rector of Paris's school system. "In terms of passing the baccalaureat, public schools produce better results than private schools."
Schools are just one of the quality services that keep families in Paris. The city has begun building moderately priced three-bedroom apartments because many couples have complained that once they have two or three children they can no longer afford Parisian rents. The city issues a "Paris-Famille" card to parents of three or more children entitling them to $400 in annual discounts on a range of activities, including transport, school meals and college tuition.
Another magnet for families is the city-run day-care system, which cares for 20,000 children a day, attracting rich and poor alike. The day-care center at 54 rue St.-Maur is typical of the 250 city-run centers except for its bold architecture: it has a spiraling concrete facade that resembles the Guggenheim Museum. Its front is windowless to keep out street noise and pollution, while its back is filled with sun-drenched floor-to-ceiling windows.
The center on the rue St.-Maur has a staff of 25 to watch over 87 children, aged 3 months to 3 years. Each of its three floors has a glass-enclosed nap area, and the staff has painted pink and blue rabbits and stars on the see-through walls. Each week, one of the center's aides stages a marionette show; the city offers special courses to teach day-care workers how to do such shows.
"I can afford my own au pair, but I much prefer the day-care center," says Patricia Fayet, a radiologist, as she watches her 1-year-old son, Yann, play in a bright blue plastic tub filled with hundreds of striped balls. "At the day-care center, the children get professional care and learn how to live with others."
Each center has a director who lives on the site and is trained as a licensed nurse and specialist in early child development. All the day-care workers must have spent a year in college studying care of children under age 3. A doctor visits each center once a week.
At the center on the rue St.-Maur, parents can leave their children from 7:30 A.M. to 6:30 P.M., but France Galas, the director, chides parents who leave a child for more than eight hours. Payments are on a sliding scale, ranging from $30 to $400 a month per child, with the city picking up half the cost of running the centers.
The centers are so successful that there is a waiting list of thousands of children, and the city is struggling to keep up by building one new day-care center a month.
"A few years ago mothers thought it was bad to put their children in a public day-care center because they felt guilty they weren't doing enough for their kids," says Elisabeth Allaire, director of social services, children and health for Paris. "Now mothers have heard so many good things about our day-care centers that they think they are bad mothers if they don't send their kids to our centers."
IN MANY WAYS, Paris is a tale of two cities. There is the Paris of the travel guides: the city of three-star restaurants and Yves Saint Laurent boutiques, the city of the 2.2 million privileged souls who live within the 22-mile ring road, the Boulevard Peripherique.
Then there is the other Paris, the outer ring where the working classes live, often in anonymous 1960's tower blocks. These are the suburbs where gangs of immigrant teen-agers clash with the police, where the sons of Algerian and Moroccan workers have a 25 percent jobless rate and where the native French tilt heavily toward Jean-Marie Le Pen, the far-right, anti-immigrant leader. These suburbs include Sartrouville, Montfermeil, Mantes-la-Jolie and Gennevilliers.
"One important reason why Paris is successful is that it's a fantastically elitist city," says Christopher Brooks, an economist specializing in urban issues at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris. "While a lot of people would like to live there, lots of people can't afford to. The social composition is skewed as a result. The poor are forced to live in the outskirts."
The Quartier du Luth in Gennevilliers is neither the worst nor the best of the banlieue. It is a United Nations of immigrants from Algeria, the Antilles, the Ivory Coast, Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey, Zaire and a dozen other countries. About 40 percent of its 10,000 residents are immigrants, and fewer than half the children finish high school. Teachers complain that they find syringes near the school gates.
"This isn't the greatest neighborhood," says Ahmet Ersoy, a 30-year-old unemployed refugee from Turkey. "We'd like to move on to another neighborhood eventually." Ersoy lives in a nondescript, 14-story, 500-yard-long block that could have won a Stalinist design contest. Its graffiti-splattered walls say "Momo" and "Chaka Chaoui." Social agencies steer immigrants to districts like the Luth, four miles northwest of Paris, because they have the cheapest housing in the region. A modest two-bedroom apartment is $350, about one-seventh the cost in central Paris.
In the Luth, France's activist Government works hard to improve living conditions. There are playgrounds with bright red swings and slides, and an office has been set up where four social workers counsel the Luth's residents.
The district has been designated a "Priority Education Zone." This means its schools receive extra money and teachers to help integrate immigrant children and provide special help to the laggards. At Guy Moquet Middle School, Claude Naveau, the principal, is proud that his school, filled with Botticelli and Manet posters, has a computer room and its own radio station.
"We have a lot of children who don't have a good family environment, who don't have someone asking them, 'Are you doing your homework?' " says Naveau, whose heavy glasses and thick beard make him look like an archetypal intellectual. "Children love our school because it's an oasis from the chaos outside."
To be sure, Paris proper also has its less chic neighborhoods, most notably the 18th, 19th and 20th arrondissements in the north and east. These have a large North African population, much of it second generation, many of whom work in small businesses, especially textiles.
The epicenter of Arab Paris is Barbes-Rochechouart, the intersection of two bustling avenues, which seems a cross between a Moroccan souk and Manhattan's 14th Street. Elevated trains rumble by as people squeeze past a 200-yard line of sidewalk stalls. Nearby, young toughs wait until sundown to begin their purse snatchings.
"A lot of young kids come up from the Maghreb, can't find jobs and start creating trouble," says Youssef Karoui, who runs the Eslem restaurant.
The problem in these neighborhoods, residents say, is not violent crime, but purse-snatchings, burglaries and car thefts. Fortunately for Paris, crack has not made inroads and drug addiction is far less prevalent than in American cities.
THE ENTRANCE TO THE concrete, 1960's building on the Boulevard Bourdon, 250 yards south of the Bastille, could not be more nondescript. There isn't even a nameplate. But deep inside, behind the security guards, is a cavernous room filled with display panels and flashing lights that looks like the Pentagon's war room.
Welcome to the central command post for Paris's subway system, an intricate web with 434 stations, 686 escalators and 1.6 billion riders a year.
At rush hour, 560 trains snake through the city, and on the command center's 13 display panels, each as long as a baseball scoreboard, orange lights show the location and progress of every single train. If there is a subway fire or someone jumps in front of a train -- there are about 150 such suicides each year -- a subway line manager leaps up from his console and runs to his display panel to switch off power for his line.
"We have already extended this display panel to include some new stations that we still haven't opened," says Jean-Pierre Renard, a longtime manager at the command center. The panel shows two stations to be added when line No. 1 is extended under the Seine to La Defense, the ultramodern office district west of Paris.
Probably better than anything else, the Metro demonstrates Paris's devotion to constant improvement: to improve through planning, bold engineering and a willingness to spend money. The Metro recently added a conductorless train that connects Orly Airport with the main subway line. The express suburban rail system, known as the R.E.R., has been extended east to Euro-Disneyland, which opened in April. There are plans for a six-mile-long tramway that will connect blue-collar suburbs north of Paris and for an express subway connecting the southernmost part of Paris to the St.-Lazare train station on the right bank.
The budget for these and other transit projects -- which are selected by a regional transportation board -- will total $3 billion over the next five years. The financing comes from ticket revenues and from the city, regional and national governments.
Thanks to a solid flow of funds, the subway cars undergo maintenance once a week, and as a result mechanical failures are responsible for less than a third of line shutdowns. Usually the problem is human failures, like fights between passengers or pranksters pulling the emergency cord.
"If our trains ran without passengers, we'd hardly have any problems," jokes Renard, a short, dapper man in a blue bow tie and charcoal-striped suit.
Like many Parisian civil servants, Renard exudes an extreme pride in his work and his city. He boasts about a new varnish that helps keep the Metro graffiti-free. He brags about the system's safety record, saying he cannot remember the last time there was a fatal accident.
"I'm a modest man, so don't expect me to say that our Metro is the best in the world," he says, with a twinkle in his eye. "Let's just say it's one of the best.
"We plan to keep it that way."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Along the Seine, near Notre Dame, a new broom (its bristles are plastic) sweeps clean, while a couple celebrates love the old-fashioned way. (pg. 15); The city is ingenious about cleaning up after itself. Here, near the I. M. Pei glass pyramid at the Louvre, a modified motor scooter scoops up after a dog's visit. (pg. 14); Washing down the Place de la Concorde. (pg. 16); Its vacuuming of Montmartre completed, this elephantine street cleaner heads for the garage. As the Metro goes, so goes Paris -- efficiently. And often artfully. At the Louvre-Rivoli station, a street musician serenades Nakhthorheb. (pg. 17)(Photographs by Michel Setboun/J. B. Pictures for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PARIS (FRANCE) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); 

SUBJECT: NYTRAVEL; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES GARDENING (90%); HOMELESSNESS (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



569 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 6; Page 18; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3736 words

HEADLINE: The Vulture Game

BYLINE: By Diana B. Henriques; Diana B. Henriques is a financial reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Hubert M. Stiles Jr. is a vulture. As he exits Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan on his way toward Union Square, he scans the surrounding urban landscape from a peculiar point of view.
There is Macy's flagship store up the street; R. H. Macy & Company filed for bankruptcy court protection on Jan. 27, with about $4.9 billion in assets and $5.3 billion in liabilities. Glancing out the rear window of his southbound taxi, he sees the Pan Am building straddling Park Avenue: the airline filed for bankruptcy in January 1991, leaving investors holding $245 million worth of bonds. "The Silence of the Lambs" is playing at a movie house; that film was produced by Orion Pictures Corporation, which filed for bankruptcy last December. 
 A newsstand in Union Square reminds Stiles of a slew of bankruptcies: The Daily News, part of the late Robert Maxwell's troubled publishing empire, whose flagship public company, Maxwell Communication, filed for bankruptcy protection last December; United Press International, the desperately ailing wire service; The New York Post, whose owner, Peter Kalikow, one of the city's biggest real-estate developers, filed for bankruptcy protection a year ago.
To Herb Stiles, Manhattan is an island of insolvency. Lately, even the World Financial Center, near the southern tip of Manhattan, has come under a cloud as its developer, Olympia & York -- owned by the Reichmann family of Canada -- has sought court protection from its creditors. The rest of America is simply more of the same.
Whatever the tidal wave of fiscal failures means to the city or the nation, it spells fresh opportunity for Stiles, who runs a bankruptcy investment fund for T. Rowe Price Associates, a mutual fund company based in Baltimore. He and investors like him get rich by feeding on the carcasses of corporate America. That's why Wall Street calls them vultures.
The large number of insolvencies over the last few years is transforming the bankruptcy investment business. Vulture investing came into its own during the Great Depression of the 1930's, but it has traditionally been an arcane and hermetic corner of the investment world, scorned by mainstream companies. Today, however, the bankruptcy game has gone mainstream, attracting major Wall Street companies, huge institutions with easy access to America's pension funds, private endowments and mutual funds. Typically, they buy up the i.o.u.'s of bankrupt companies for a few cents on the dollar from creditors who are unwilling or unable to wait out the bankruptcy process. Their goal: to collect many more pennies per dollar from the debtor, once the bankruptcy negotiations are completed.
With courtly corporate manners that mask a shrewd eye for bargains, Stiles is typical of the savvy newcomers. Besides T. Rowe Price, the new vultures include giants like Merrill Lynch and Fidelity Investments, and a number of smaller or less familiar companies. By some estimates, more than $10 billion has been raised from institutional investors in recent years to cash in on this boom in going bust.
On any bankruptcy case, Stiles's adversaries might well include some of the sharpest and toughest veterans of the takeover wars of the 1980's. As the number of corporate failures climbs, an army of former mergers and acquisitions specialists on Wall Street are turning to bankruptcy investing. There is a delicious paradox, of course, in this rush of deal makers into the vulture game. Many of the companies in bankruptcy court today are there because they employed those very deal makers in the first place, piling up debts in the 1980's that have overwhelmed the slim profits offered so far by the 90's. Their collapse has created a huge volume of distressed securities, which are the bonds and notes they issued, plus the bank loans and unpaid bills they owed to wholesalers and vendors who did business with them. "Nobody really has a good handle on the size of the market," Stiles says, "but some estimates run as high as $300 billion."
Being in on the vulture game means wily maneuvering to buy the best seat at the negotiating table, and then months, or years, of haggling over how much creditors will be able to collect from the debtor. It is just that sort of conference-room combat that has brought Stiles to Manhattan on a February day. He has an appointment with Stephen D. Weinroth, formerly an executive at Drexel Burnham Lambert and now chairman and chief executive of Integrated Resources, a syndicator of real-estate parterships. Both Drexel and Integrated filed for bankruptcy in February 1990.
The session will be long and private. Stiles represents a bloc of Integrated's unsecured creditors who are trying to negotiate a tiny sliver of Integrated's remaining assets, before the more powerful secured creditors take them all. Afterward, he will meet in a law firm's conference room with representatives of a rival group of creditors with a stronger claim on Integrated's assets.
These negotiations are necessary because not all creditors are created equal. Some lenders demand collateral -- factory equipment, the company's headquarters, the corporate jet -- as a condition of their loan; these are secured creditors. Others make loans without collateral, charging a higher interest rate to reflect the increased risk; they are unsecured creditors. And some -- like wholesalers and suppliers -- simply were not paid for their goods and services. Their unpaid bills are called trade claims. Each type of creditor has a place in the legal pecking order, with secured lenders near the top and unsecured lenders near the bottom, and trade claims unpredictably falling at either end.
Depending on the kinds of creditors a bankrupt company has, there may be as many as five committees of vulture investors involved in bankruptcy negotiations. Increasingly, rival committees are battling with one another to improve their treatment in the final deal, regardless of the pecking order.
That assertiveness is cited by many experts as one of the most dramatic changes to occur in the vulture market in recent years. "Creditors are far less willing to compromise," says George Putnam 3d, editor of the Turnaround Letter in Boston, one of a number of investment newsletters that have sprung up to serve the bankruptcy marketplace. In a few cases, creditors are even trying to buy up enough of a bankrupt company's debt to take control of the entire reorganization process, and perhaps of the company itself -- a variant of venture capital investing that some wags refer to as vulture capital.
In the delicate diplomacy of bankruptcy negotiations, Stiles and his group have little leverage beyond their ability to stall -- a powerful weapon when each moment spent negotiating the deal reduces everyone's potential profit on the money they have invested in the bankruptcy company. Stiles's visit to Integrated Resources is a last-ditch effort to turn that nuisance value into something more tangible. He elected to buy the unsecured debt in the first place because he felt it was the cheapest way to gamble on the outcome. His hope is that the other creditors will agree to give his group some small sop simply to keep them quiet. With competing bids on the table, it is too soon to predict the outcome.
As he heads to his meeting with Weinroth (who subsequently resigned from Integrated), Stiles jokes about the rose-marble elevators that carry him to Integrated's offices. Not exactly a debtor's prison, is it? The elevator is far more elegant, and only slightly smaller, than the office Stiles occupies in Baltimore.
EXCEPT FOR A handsome view of the Inner Harbor, Stiles's command center in Baltimore is dull and bland. Missing, by Wall Street standards, are about 150 square feet of floor space and all the attendant power cliches -- the cigars, the suspenders, the miniature financial documents encased in Lucite, trophies of past deals.
A soft-spoken Alabama native, Stiles left the sedate world of commercial banking in 1988 to make his way into the hottest and riskiest game on Wall Street. He became executive vice president and portfolio manager of the T. Rowe Price Recovery Fund, a private partnership formed that year, and is now president of the company. Armed with more than $100 million raised from major institutions, the 45-year-old Stiles invests in the bonds, notes and other unpaid obligations of bankrupt companies.
"Commercial banking was great," Stiles says, grinning and tilting back in his chair as he reviews the 18 years he spent at Chemical Bank in New York. His career there included service, as a junior banker, on the team that represented Chemical in the historic Penn Central bankruptcy in June 1970, at the time the largest and most complicated bankruptcy.
That case gave Stiles a front-row seat as Victor Palmieri -- the legendary turnaround specialist hired to manage Penn Central -- delicately arm-twisted his way to a settlement with the company's creditors. The Penn Central case enabled a few lucky investors, who bought the railroad's bonds for pennies on the dollar after the bankruptcy filing, to pocket millions when the debts were finally settled nearly a decade later. Palmieri's remarkable performance persuaded Stiles that "bankruptcy is where credit analysis really matters."
Stiles hefts a stack of documents, part of the enormous paper work generated by the bankruptcy of Maxicare Health Plans, the huge health maintenance organization that filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in March 1989 and finally emerged from bankruptcy early last year.
Maxicare, based in Los Angeles, was a big success for Stiles, one that illustrates the lure of this high-stakes game for mainstream newcomers. It also offers a near-textbook example of a process that is being followed, with a few baroque embellishments and considerably more publicity, in today's celebrity bankruptcy cases.
Stiles started watching Maxicare in March 1988, after it jolted Wall Street by reporting a large, unexpected loss for the prior fiscal year. In November 1988, Maxicare failed to make an interest payment owed to its corporate bondholders. Two months later, the company was unable to make the required monthly payments on its bank loans. After a grace period, Maxicare finally filed for bankruptcy court protection in March 1989.
Stiles had a hunch that Maxicare would emerge from bankruptcy with its debts paid off at less than face value and its interest payments sharply reduced. But two questions gave him pause: Would the H.M.O. be treated like an insurance company, under the supervision of insurance regulators in each of the 22 states where it did business, or like a simple bankruptcy case under the supervision of a single judge? And how good was Maxicare's basic business?
A United States bankruptcy judge in Los Angeles, John J. Wilson, answered the first question in June 1989 by barring the states' insurance commissioners from taking regulatory action. The answer to the second question lay deep in a long row of documents filed in the Los Angeles Federal Courthouse.
Those documents are the statement of financial affairs that debtors are required to provide to the bankruptcy court, and Stiles relied on Seidler Amdec Securities, a company specializing in bankrupt securities, to assess those papers. After Stiles looked at the money flowing in and out of each of the company's separate health-care plans, "it became apparent that they had turned the corner," he says. "I was ready."
But what was the best way to get into the game? He could buy the defaulted bonds, traded in the open market, or he could try to buy the unpaid invoices in the hands of the vendors who had done business with the company. Stiles decided, instead, to buy a large portion of the company's outstanding bank loans. These seemed to offer the best mix of price and power -- he could buy them cheaply, and, by acquiring the bankers' rights as lenders, he would be in a strong position in the ultimate negotiations. Between September and December of 1989, he negotiated with three major banks to buy up loans with a face value of $36 million. He paid roughly $5.6 million for the loans -- or about 15 cents to the dollar.
Stiles estimated that Maxicare would ultimately be able to strike a deal with its creditors that would provide about 30 cents on the dollar to whomever held those bank loans.
Stiles rode that case through one aborted takeover bid, endless shouting matches in conference rooms in Los Angeles and continuous disputes over the payment of some of the company's trade claims. In April of last year, he walked away with about 32 cents for each dollar of bank loans he controlled -- more than twice his initial investment.
Although the Maxicare returns are now part of the vulture-market folklore, the risks of bankruptcy speculation have not yet found their way into market mythology. But the continuing bankruptcy boom may change that. The vulture market is little more than a loosely regulated bazaar, and somewhere down the line, less experienced investors might well find themselves faced with a level of volatility and legal uncertainty that will make the ever-shifting Wall Street market look like a placid pond.
MORE THAN 87,000 businesses failed in the United States in 1991 -- more than one every 10 minutes, a 44 percent increase over the previous year's figures, according to Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, the business research company. The companies that failed in 1991 alone had almost $109 billion in liabilities, or nearly twice as much as was owed by the prior year's crop of failures.
Many of the business failures are small fry. Until two years ago, it was rare for more than one billion-dollar company to fail in any given year, says Edward Flynn, a management analyst for the bankruptcy division of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts. "Suddenly," he says, "there are many more." There were 15 in 1990 and 18 in 1991, including Pan Am Corporation and Carter Hawley Hale Stores. So far this year, nine such megacases have been filed.
Some legal experts on bankruptcy say the roots of the recent crop of high-profile bankruptcies go deeper than the debt binge of the 1980's and the economic weakness of the early 90's. They blame a profound change in board-room attitudes: the stigma of bankruptcy has steadily faded.
This changing perception first became apparent in 1982, when Johns-Manville filed for bankruptcy to protect itself from its asbestos-related liabilities. "That was a dramatic watershed," says Martin Nussbaum, a Wall Street securities lawyer who has accompanied his corporate clients into the bankruptcy arena. "It said that bankruptcy was becoming more respectable as a tool of corporate strategy."
The following year, Texaco briefly sought the protection of bankruptcy court after losing an extremely costly lawsuit over its acquisition of Getty Oil. "That bankruptcy filing would have been unthinkable 20 years ago," Nussbaum says. "In the board rooms where I've sat, while there is still a great deal of reluctance to do it, that is diminishing rapidly."
The bankruptcy investment business is exclusively American. "The European recipe for dealing with a bankrupt enterprise has always been fairly simple and direct," Nussbaum says. "You auction the assets, distribute the cash to the creditors and throw the management in jail."
In the United States, it was not until 1898 that an all-encompassing Federal bankruptcy law was adopted, establishing a court-monitored process to allow debtors to negotiate some sort of settlement with their creditors. With some extensive Depression-era amendments, this law remained in effect for 80 years, until widespread dissatisfactionled to the adoption of a new bankruptcy code in 1978.
This new code is more flexible to enable more companies to reorganize, says Lawrence P. King, a professor of law at New York University Law School and one of the original drafters of the new code. Since an insolvent company might someday become profitable again, the new law gives patient creditors an incentive to negotiate seriously, instead of demanding that the company be liquidated.
Exhibit A in support of this less punitive approach is the Federated-Allied department store chain, whose links include such familiar names as Bloomingdale's, Jordan Marsh and Burdines. When Robert Campeau, the Canadian entrepreneur, acquired Allied in 1986 and Federated in 1988, he loaded their ledgers with high-cost debt. In January 1990, unable to repay those debts, the two companies sought shelter in bankruptcy court. Creditors haggled for nearly two years -- as the stores continued to operate -- and finally agreed to accept a package of new securities in lieu of some of the money they were owed. Those at the top of the pecking order got between 80 cents and 100 cents for each dollar they were owed, while less fortunate creditors wound up with as little as 2 cents on the dollar. Early this year, the combined chains emerged from bankruptcy as a single company, under Federated's name.
WHEN companies first began to fail with unnerving regularity in late 1990, prices of distressed securities plummeted. But as giant investors tried to put hundreds of millions of dollars into the relatively small vulture market, the prices went berserk in the first half of last year. The fever cooled slightly as autumn arrived -- all of which causes people like Stiles to worry that speculation has gotten out of control, increasing the already substantial risks of the bankruptcy market.
The prices of bank loans and vendor claims have risen at a slower pace, Stiles says, because they are less familiar to the newcomers rushing into the market. "But I find myself shaking my head over the prices being quoted for publicly traded bonds and, especially, stocks," he says.
These witless price swings have prompted some seasoned participants in the bankruptcy game to argue that the new Wall Street vultures will spoil the market through greed or inexperience. "It was a tidy little game," says A. David Silver, the owner of ADS Financial Services in Santa Fe, N.M., a small investment banking house that specializes in troubled companies. "But today, everybody is piling in. And when white-shoe Wall Street firms start to do business with bankruptcy players, there will be overcrowding, more competition for deals, higher prices than you can justify, less collateral than you need. Suddenly, it's the collapse of the junk-bond market all over again."
Stiles, understandably, disagrees that the newcomers are unskilled at their task. "I don't observe any real dummies out there in the market," he says. But he agrees that there is a worrisome lack of clarity and consistency on regulatory issues that affect the vulture marketplace. "There has always been a fuzzy area where the Securities and Exchange Commission and the bankruptcy courts square off," he says. "Ten or 20 years ago, the regulators seemed more involved. Then I think the S.E.C. overreacted and stepped back too much."
Now the S.E.C. says it is stepping closer. Richard C. Breeden, its chairman, has confirmed that his agency is exploring the legal landscape to determine how -- and whether -- stock market rules against insider trading should be applied to the dimly lit world of vulture investing.
In many cases, securities regulators have no choice but to defer to the bankruptcy courts because, under S.E.C. definitions, many of the wares traded in the distressed securities market, like trade claims and bank loans, are not securities at all. Where the insolvent company does not have public shareholders -- as is the case with many of the failed leveraged buyouts of the 80's -- the S.E.C. must rely on the bankruptcy courts to oversee much of the company's dealing with its creditors in the vulture marketplace, says Michael Berman, a bankruptcy counsel for the commission.
Those courts have sometimes reached contradictory decisions about the rules of the game, treating the same class of creditors differently in different cases or establishing different standards for what a debtor company must disclose to vulture investors in the course of negotiations. This is not surprising, given the increased workload the bankruptcy boom has produced for judges and court clerks.
Peter McCabe, the assistant director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, says the overall number of bankruptcy cases, including consumer cases, has more than quadrupled since 1979, the first year under the new code. And the new megacases are complex and time-consuming. In response, the court administrators are seeking Congressional permission to add at least 32 new judges and to expand the clerk's offices in some of the busier jurisdictions.
THE LEGAL FUZZINESS notwithstanding, the bankruptcy market is moving along at a clip. Although today's newcomers are handling money raised exclusively from fairly sophisticated institutional investors, Herb Stiles says he believes that tomorrow's new arrivals may even include public mutual funds devoted exclusively to vulture investing -- vehicles that would give everyone the chance to experience the dubious thrills of bankruptcy speculation.
Stiles supports the notion of opening the vulture market to the general public through professionally managed mutual funds, but he is too familiar with the ways of Wall Street to assume that nothing will go wrong. The most likely catastrophe, in his view, is that unsophisticated mutual fund investors, lured by the promise of high returns, will lose their shirts in bankruptcy speculation -- and will turn to their Congressmen or lawyers for revenge. That kind of fallout could impair the entire market, just as the Government's probe of Drexel's Michael Milken damaged liquidity and prices in the junk bond market.
"There are many degrees of speculation," Stiles explains, "from bank loans, which are relatively secure, to bankrupt common stocks, which are very risky. If someone were to start up a fund and invest just in bankruptcy stocks, you could easily see that producing a disaster."
He pauses and then continues: "There will be horror stories ahead, people who will lose a lot of money in this market." But from his quick grin, it is clear Herb Stiles does not expect to be one of them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: When a Macy's fails, investors like Herb Stiles profit. (Photograph by Ken Shung for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (86%); TROW (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (86%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (86%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (55%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PRICE, T ROWE, ASSOCIATES INC MACY'S INC (86%); ORION PICTURES CORP (70%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); FMR CORP (55%); UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); T ROWE PRICE GROUP INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICE, T ROWE, ASSOCIATES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); CURRENCIES (63%); ENDOWMENTS (63%); PUBLISHING (53%); GREAT DEPRESSION (50%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; STILES, HUBERT M JR ROBERT IAN CHARLES MAXWELL (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



570 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Talking: Solar Energy;
New Ways To Get Off The Grid

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
SALES of solar energy devices for the home are rising after a decade in the doldrums despite the recession and even though the cost may not always make economic sense -- an indication, perhaps, of a desire by more homeowners to help preserve the planet.
In 1990, solar hot water system sales rose 15 percent over 1989, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association, a trade group based in Washington, which predicted another 15 percent rise this year. And 1991 sales of solar-powered devices for the home, like attic fans and outdoor lighting, rose 27 percent over 1990, with a further 25 percent gain expected this year, the association said. 
 For some, the potential saving was the catalyst.
"When you feel pinched, you look for ways to reduce your overhead," said Scott Sklar, president of the association.
The group discovered that as some homeowners started to refinance to benefit from lower interest rates, it made financial sense to borrow an extra $4,000 or so to install a typical two-panel solar hot-water system. This was particularly true if, despite the added debt service, the system could save the buyer as much as -- or more than -- he had been paying each month to heat water.
Dr. Mark Novotny, an internist who lives with his wife and two children in Manchester, Vt., installed a $3,200 solar hot-water system in May He estimated that the $38 a month he pays on a 10-year loan would be hardly more than the $30 he had been paying to heat water electrically.
Paul Hood, a peace activist in Charlotte, Vt., said he chose solar as the primary energy source for his new home because "we had a continuing concern about the disposal of nuclear wastes and the using of nonrenewable energy sources."
One home solar hot-water system can cut the discharge of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere -- the principal cause of global warming -- by 20 tons over two decades compared to electric water heating, according to the National Renewable Energy Laboratories, a federally financed research group in Golden, Colo.
Mr. Hood's 1,500-square-foot saltbox has eight roof-mounted photovoltaic panels, with a backup generator. Installed last year by Solar Works of Montpelier, Vt., the system cost $8,000, including the inverter that converts solar-generated DC to 110 volt AC for normal appliances. Mr. Hood said the system cost about a third more than hooking up to power lines, which would have had to be extended a half mile to reach the house.
A glass-covered black metal water tank on the roof provides a simple type of solar-heated hot water during the summer, a cheaper alternative to the traditional solar hot water system, said Mr. Hood. There is a backup propane heater.
One place homeowners can begin searching for solar solutions is with information on the updated products being marketed -- plus the names and phone numbers of local suppliers and installers.
Comprehensive background reading can be found in the Consumer Guide to Solar Energy, a 181-page book published in 1991 by Bonus Books of Chicago. For a copy, send $11 to American Solar Energy Society, 2400 Central Avenue, Boulder, Colo., 80301. The book includes a guide to suppliers and local solar trade associations.
Some 200 solar contractors from around the country are listed in the 1992 edition of the Solar Source Book, a directory compiled by the Solar Energy Industries Association. The book also lists local utility companies that have financial incentive programs or state agencies that can supply information about other financial incentives. Send $12.50 to SEIA, 777 North Capitol Street, Washington, D.C. 20002.
UTILITY incentive programs are also reviving after being discontinued in the mid 80's "because of pressure from their state utility commissions to reduce demand," said Mr. Sklar. "It's cheaper than building new plants."
In New York, utility companies are starting to file plans with state officials and more specific information may not available until later this year, said Gary Brown, a policy analyst for the New York State Energy Office. Elsewhere, homeowners should check with their local utility business office.
New York State has also revived its property tax abatement program for improvements with a solar component. Called the Solar Real Property Tax Exemption, it was reinstated by state legislators on Jan. 1, 1991, after having been discontinued for two years.
One way to enhance solar efficiency on a limited budget might be to consider improvements to an existing system or the use of second-hand hardware.
Everett Barber Jr., president of Sunsearch, a solar contractor in Guilford, Conn., is offering about 50 used collectors at about 40 percent below the cost of similar models bought new. They are most useful, he said, for enhancing an existing system.
Mr. Barber, who is also an associate professor of environmental technologies at Yale School of Architecture, said there are many other ways to put new zest into an older system. He has found, for example, that collectors with a plastic film or fiberglass covering tend to lose about 60 percent of their efficiency after about eight years because the surface gradually clouds over. Replacing the covering costs about $250 a panel, far less than installing new panels.
"Sometimes we find that the problem is as simple as controls that were wired incorrectly," said Mr. Barber, "or backup sources of heat that were never properly installed."
Before choosing a solar contractor, Mr. Barber recommends determining how many years of experience the installer has had with the products being installed; the names of area homeowners who are using the same system; the anticipated life of the solar hot-water tank based on the installer's experience rather than the manufacturer's claims; what procedures might be needed to safeguard the system from overheating during a prolonged absence and anticipated maintenance costs.
Among the many smaller solar-powered items useful for the homeowner on a small budget are attic fans, which sell for around $300. One source is Applied Energy Technology of Swisher, Iowa. (For details, call (319) 857-412.) Much information about solar energy, plus a wide variety of devices -- from toys to complete power systems -- is in the "Real Goods" mail-order catalog. For a free copy, call the company in Ukiah, Calif., toll-free, at (800) 762-7325.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SOLAR.B (CPH) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423610 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT, WIRING SUPPLIES & RELATED EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: SOLAR ENERGY INDUSTRIES ASSN SOLAR AS (91%); SOLAR ENERGY INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (83%); SOLAR ENERGY INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOLAR ENERGY INDUSTRIES ASSN SOLAR ENERGY INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (83%); SOLAR ENERGY INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY; SALES SOLAR ENERGY (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); SALES FIGURES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); CLIMATOLOGY (66%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (62%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE PAUL HOOD (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



571 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1; Column 3; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Downtown Redevelopment;
35 Condo Units for Danbury

 BODY:
Three buildings with a total of 35 condominium apartments are to be the first private undertaking in the redevelopment of downtown Danbury, Conn. The $3 million residential project, by Davon Development Corporation, is on Liberty Street. It will be called Liberty Terrace.
The buildings will have two-story, two-bedroom units arranged over two-bedroom basement apartments. Prices will range from the mid-$70,000's to the upper $90,000's. Ground-breaking is scheduled for this fall, with completion expected in the fall of 1993. Financing comes from the Union Savings Bank and the Savings Bank of Danbury. The architect is Lewis Zurlo of Danbury. The project includes the relocation of the New Bethel Church of God in Christ, which stands on the site. 
 "One of the ways to make a small city turn around is to bring back the middle class and to bring back residents to downtown," said the developer, George Davon, of Danbury.
Liberty Terrace is at the south end of a 7.7-acre redevelopment district bounded by Patriot Drive and White, Ives, Delay and Liberty Streets. A 550-vehicle municipal parking garage was completed earlier this year. Projects on the drawing board include the 20,000-square-foot Pavilion on the Green, with offices and stores, and a complex with 40 housing units, stores, restaurant and an "entertainment facility" (it was to have been a movie theater, but plans changed).
"We're one of the only places that's got something going on," said Felice Plain, the executive director of CityCenter Danbury. "We feel it puts us in a position to come out of the recession in a positive way." CityCenter is a one-square-mile special-services district that includes the redevelopment area. Services within CityCenter are paid for by a special assessment on 120 property owners.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Rendering of a residential complex at Liberty Terrace on Liberty Street, Danbury, Conn. (Lewis Zurlo Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KEY (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DAVON DEVELOPMENT CORP KEYCORP (57%); CITYCENTER DANBURY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAVON DEVELOPMENT CORP CITYCENTER DANBURY (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DANBURY (CONN) UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (92%); CONDOMINIUMS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (74%); RELIGION (74%); RELOCATIONS (73%); RECESSION (71%); RESTAURANTS (65%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



572 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 10; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: Data Update

 BODY:

 	 	 	 	INDEXES OF HOUSING COSTS	N.Y.-Northeast N.J. area*	 	 	 	 	 	 			% change from	% change from		June 92	May 92	June 91	Rents	178.8	+0.8	+4.9	Homeowner's costs	177.5	+0.2	+4.0	Fuel and utilities	109.7	+4.2	+2.3	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	*Five counties of New York City plus Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester		 	 	 	Rockland, Putnam, Bergen, Essex, Morris, Union, Hudson, Middlesex	Somerset and Passaic.	 	 	 		 	 	 	Indexes: 1982-84=100	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	MORTGAGE INTEREST RATES (Averages)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		Last Week	Previous Week	Year Ago	 	 	 	 	New York	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.36	8.54	9.83	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	5.65	5.82	7.30	 	 	 	 	New Jersey	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.20	8.40	9.68	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	5.42	5.59	7.26	 	 	 	 	Connecticut	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.20	8.44	9.73	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	5.36	5.64	7.15	 	 	 	 	Co-ops (N.Y.)	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	8.45	8.60	10.04	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	6.09	6.39	7.74	 	 	 	 		 	 	 	Indexes for Adjustable-Rate Mortgages*	1-yr. Treasury security	3.64	3.96	5.71	National Mortgage Contract Rate	8.20	8.20	9.23	
*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; PRICES; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



573 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property: Older Industrial Space;
'Repositioning' Buildings for a New Marketplace

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
AT the end of a dead-end street -- improbably named Progress Drive -- in a tumbledown part of Stamford, Conn., is a 25-year-old rectangular industrial building whose simple concrete-and-glass exterior stands in humble contrast to the glittering office towers less than a mile away.
But with a bit of fixing up, the 116,000-square-foot, two-story structure on a 4.6-acre paved site may turn out to be more in tune than its more glamorous neighbors with the needs of the 90's. 
 Its first tenant was Branson Instruments, maker of flight simulators. It was then leased to Pitney Bowes for the assembly of postage meters. When the Pitney Bowes lease expired earlier this year and the division moved out, the building's owner, Frank Mercede Jr., faced a major problem.
Large industrial structures built for single users -- even the more up-to-date kind like the one on Progress Drive -- are no longer finding tenants. The pattern is familiar all over the New York metropolitan area, brokers report, as more and more manufacturers drift away to less costly locations.
And the recession has compounded the problem.
"Even the manufacturers that are still here are cutting back," said Thom W. Murray, an industrial broker with William Pitt Real Estate of Stamford, the brokerage marketing the Progress Drive building.
Mr. Murray noted that vacancy rates in Fairfield County are about 12 percent, compared with 7 percent in the late 80's. And prices for raw space have fallen to $6 a square foot from around $9 in 1988. Demand, he said, just isn't there, and now that commercial construction is stagnant, properties are not being bought for their land value.
New uses therefore must be devised for such structures, and the key word is "repositioning."
What is happening on Progress Drive is one way to do this. Some $350,000 worth of interior renovations are being completed to better adapt the building to several small users that want to consolidate functions under one roof. The idea also is to attract larger companies that are contracting and interested in cutting overhead by consolidating operations in one location. And, unlike the glitzy towers, such structures also offer lots of free, ground-level parking.
Each of the users, who are expected to need more than 10,000 square feet, will be able to combine office space with light assembly, warehousing or distribution.
THESE were just the sort of tenants that brokers say used to be scorned by landlords for their modest needs and unwillingness to sign long leases. Such tenants therefore had to make do with "leftovers," said Dan Frankel, senior vice president and industrial specialist at Jacobson, Goldfarb & Tanzman Associates, commercial brokers in Woodbridge, N.J., which is seeing similar transformations.
Those leftovers tended to be loft spaces, empty garages or the upper floors of obsolete buildings -- spaces nobody else wanted. They were far from ideal, said Mr. Frankel, but they were the only thing that most small or embryonic companies with multiple needs could afford.
Besides, such space often was the only thing they were offered. It has taken hard times, he added, for landlords to recognize these tenants as a market niche.
Clearly, not all buildings can be easily converted. Those that are more than two stories high and will need a large amount of capital to make the changeover are unlikely to be good candidates because banks are wary of lending for commercial property. And those in sites unsuited to retailing are not going to find tenants easily.
At Progress Drive, the former wide open spaces are being broken up to provide communal hallways and smaller units. As an added incentive, at least one loading dock is being set aside for those tenants who may need to use one only occasionally.
At the rear of the building are hangar-like spaces with 22-foot ceilings. These are meant for smaller distributors who need vertical storage.
NEW bathroom fittings have been installed and, for those whose primary goal is presentable office space at lower cost, a sophisticated lobby area is being created by covering the old cinderblock walls and adding a security desk, potted plants and marble flooring at the entrance.
In addition, the old company cafeteria will be operated as a communal amenity. The former conference room on the second floor will become an exercise room for all. A 12,000-square-foot adjacent building that was part of the Pitney Bowes operation during its tenure is expected to be leased to a day-care operator.
In short, the owner is providing the sorts of on-site extras that only a major company could normally afford.
"We wanted to make it as appealing as possible for the people who are looking," said Donald R. Corbo, director of real estate marketing for Mr. Mercede. "You can't just show them into an empty industrial space and let them imagine what it will look like. You must do some of the work ahead of time."
Even though the changes are not yet complete, two five-year leases have been signed. In March, Computerland took 10,000 square feet on the second floor as a regional center. Up Technologies, a discount computer retailer, moved into 7,000 square feet on the first floor in June.
The effective rate is around $12 a square foot, said Mr. Corbo.
Two more leases, each for 10,000 square feet, are under negotiation, said Mr. Corbo, and are expected to provide a training center and back-office space for two larger local companies.
ALSO gaining attention is the idea of leaving such a building as is and trying to attract the discount retailer who may wish to combine on-site selling with mail-order distribution -- one of the fastest growing segments of retailing.
That's what is being done, for example, to two buildings totaling 135,000 square feet on 8.6 contiguous acres in Port Chester, N.Y., by Auguste Thouard Corporation of Greenwich, Conn. A division of a French property company, it has made a business of buying up these white elephants and finding a new market for them. Home Depot will take over the site.
Since Port Chester is sandwiched between the affluent dormitory towns of Fairfield County and southern Westchester and is full of large industrial structures, it is ideal for the purpose, maintained William Leroy, a principal in Thouard.
Allyn H. Powell, who owns a 25,000 square foot brick building on a 2.3 acre site along Route 1 in Norwalk, Conn, is equally enthusiastic about the warehouse retailing solution.
His one-story office-and-warehouse building, available since January, stands on a section of a street long associated with low-end retailers. And although its Cinderella looks would hardly suit a high-quality or trendy shopkeeper, he maintains that the size, configuration and location are ideal for this newer discount warehouse segment of the retail marketplace.
Thus, he said, he has decided not to spend money up front. Instead, he is making it clear that he is willing to the make the changes that could appeal to such a tenant, such as a new entrance and new loading bays at the rear.
"We'd even tear some of the building down to get their big trucks in, if that's what the tenant wanted," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Office building at the end of Progress Drive in Stamford, Conn; Donald R. Corbo, who is marketing space in the building. (Photographs by Steve Castagneto for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PBI (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: PITNEY BOWES INC (56%); NEW YORK (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;STAMFORD (CONN) UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (74%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); FLIGHT SIMULATOR MFG (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



574 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: In the Region: Connecticut and Westchester;
An Affordable-Rental Program Takes Off

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
AN affordable rental-housing program begun in Connecticut in 1985 is emerging from relative obscurity. With commercial lending at a nadir, the Private Rental Investment Mortgage and Equity Program, known as Prime, is one of the few paths to construction money for developers who once shunned subsidized rental housing.
The program requires that 20 to 40 percent of a project's units rent below market rate, keyed to a state formula. Rents cannot exceed 35 percent of gross monthly income. The remaining units rent at full price, ensuring Prime's objective of economic integration. 
 Operating under the umbrella of the Connecticut Housing Finance Agency, Prime has had a flurry of recent applications from developers.
"We are now getting more applications than conventional lenders," said Gary King, director of the Housing Finance Agency and designer of the Prime program. Twelve new projects were approved in June.
While the number of rentals needed in the state has not been established, Mr. King said "estimates of the need for affordable housing, rental or purchased, range up to 100,000 units."
"We give priority in lending to rental housing and homeownership in communities where they don't exist," he said, "and to family housing over elderly housing. The general trend is toward mixed income housing and financing from many sources."
The program combines private and public money, tax credits are an incentive for developers and oversight by Prime helps keep the quality of design and construction high, making the product attractive to planning boards and consumers.
The idea that people paying market rents would not be willing to live in mixed-income developments "is a preconceived notion that is not true," said William E. Haynesworth, senior vice president of the Boston Financial Group, backers of several such projects, including Deer Meadow in Bloomfield, a Hartford suburb.
"You have to be working to afford the rent," he said. "These are not welfare apartments. If you produce a superior product, people will want to live there and they aren't concerned about who lives next door." "Massachusetts pioneered the concept of economic integration in 1969," he said. "Historically, Connecticut had very conservative lending practices and would only finance F.H.A.-insured mortgages with no risk for bond holders."
Deer Meadow opened a model unit on June 27.
"We are processing credit checks on about 400 applications," said Marc S. Levine, the developer. "We expect some young families and unrelated individuals sharing a unit to move in by Aug. 1."
The $5.8 million development circling a landscaped green has 48 garden-style units in five two-story buildings. Market rates start at $850 for a two-bedroom unit and go up to $995 for three bedrooms. Ten three-bedroom units will be rented to qualified low-income tenants at $671, nine two-bedroom units at $580 and one two-bedroom at $467.
Sizes range from 1,003 to 1,278 square feet. Each unit has a dishwasher, sink garbage-disposal, microwave, gas stove, refrigerator, washer-dryer hookup and central air-conditioning. And each has a laundry room, deck, two parking spaces and visitor parking, with no differences between market-rate and low-income units.
The development, on a 13.5-acre site 380 feet back from Blue Hills Avenue in a residential area, is 2.3 miles from Exit 36 of Interstate 91. Close to several local employers, including CIGNA, the University of Hartford, Kaman Aircraft, and Combustion Engineering, it is also near shopping at the Copaco Shopping Center and Bloomfield Center.
Bloomfield's 26 square miles supports 19,400 people whose median income is more than $52,000, with minority representation of up to 40 percent.
"WE pride ourselves on being one of the all-American diversified communities since the 1960's," said Thomas B. Hooper, the town planner. "We are focusing on the shortage of family housing because we lost a lot of rental stock in the last decade through conversion to condominiums."
"Our big problem is retailers," he said, adding:
"They don't understand that we have a population of affluent minorities as well as affluent whites. Retailers just look at the numbers of minority residents. Not that we want a mall, just some stores to fill vacancies in small shopping centers."
Westfarms and Buckland Hills malls are within 15 miles of Bloomfield.
Boston Financial paid $920,000 for its limited Deer Meadow partnership and Mr. Levine put up $86,000 as general partner. The state housing finance agency issued $2.5 million in bonds for permanent and construction financing and the state Department of Housing supplied a $2.3 million second mortgage.
"The project will generate $166,000 of tax credit per year for 10 years," said Mr. Levine. "Boston Financial gets 99 percent of it, I get one percent plus a fee for developing the project."
The units must be rented for 15 years, after which the project may be sold as rentals or condominiums, with Mr. Levine, Boston Financial and the housing finance agency sharing the profits. The same percentage of low-income units must be retained for 99 years.
Diamond Court, another Prime project, developed by Ralph Monti and William Martin, opened in March in a rundown section of downtown Waterbury, on Manhan Street Extension. Sixty-seven units of a total of 80 have been rented or are under contract, and the developers are gearing up to build more on the remaining seven acres of their 14-acre property. The houses are in rows on each side of a center road, with 8 to 12 town houses having small front lawns in each of eight buildings.
"We tell people in advance about the difference in rents," said Mr. Monti. "They don't seem to care."
Two-bedroom, 700-square-foot units rent for $507 with an income under $24,000, or $550 at market rate. A 900-square-foot, three-bedroom town house rents for $650 market, $579 low-income. Four bedrooms cost $825, or $637. Central air-conditioning, full basements, one parking space and all appliances except washer-dryers are included.
Mr. Levine said the principal risk in economically integrated housing is quality. "If the units are not marketable at market rates the project will fail sooner or later," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Drawing of residential units at the Deer Meadow complex in Bloomfield, a suburb of Hartford. (The Steinberg Collaborative)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON FINANCIAL GROUP LP (53%); BLOOMFIELD CENTER (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLOOMFIELD CENTER (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING HOUSING ASSISTANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); FAMILY (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); APPROVALS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CREDIT CHECKS (69%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (58%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR MARC S LEVINE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



575 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Threat of Zebra Mussels Puts Reservoirs on Alert

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER

DATELINE: KATONAH

 BODY:
WORRIED that zebra mussels might infiltrate the Croton reservoir system, New York City officials have opened a steam-cleaning operation in Cross River to cleanse boats that come from other waters to reservoirs in Westchester and Putnam Counties.
The steam cleaning is free, requiring only a reservation. So far, though, only one boat has been steam cleaned -- and that was involuntary, according to John Duffy, chief inspector for the reservoir system. 
 Inspectors on a tour of the Amawalk Reservoir recently seized a boat on the shoreline that appeared to be excessively dirty.
"It didn't look right," Mr. Duffy said.
The inspectors took the boat to the steam-cleaning site, washed it and then returned it to the owner, who said he had just come into the area after fishing in the Missouri River.
After testing, the debris on the boat proved to be free of zebra mussels, Mr. Duffy said.
No boats have come in voluntarily, although many boat owners have called to inquire about whether cleaning was needed. (The number is 232-5171.)
"Our equipment is ready. Our people are ready to go, but we have no boats," said Carl Picha, district engineer for the city's Bureau of Water Supply, which has an office here.
Mr. Picha and other water officials are concerned about the spreading zebra mussel because it poses a potential threat to the flow of water from reservoirs to the system's nine million consumers in New York City and the northern suburbs. About 80 percent of Westchester County's residents get their water from the New York City system.
Although the mollusk does not affect water purity or public health, it is an economic menace, because it grows in large clumps and can block the intake pipes of power plants and drinking water systems.
 
Recognizing a Potential Danger
 No mussels or their larvae have been found in any of the city's reservoirs in Westchester or in the Catskill Mountains. But they have been found at the intake pipes of the Chelsea Pumping Station on the east bank of the Hudson River, two miles north of Beacon. The station, not in operation now, is used only in case of a severe water shortage.
"We recognize the potential danger," said Sharon Neuman, the zebra mussel project manager for the city water system. Ms. Neuman is deputy chief of water quality planning for the city's Department of Environmental Protection.
That concern is shared by marina operators in the reservoir area, according to Charles Melchner, operator of the Mahopac Marina in Mahopac Falls and a vice president of the Hudson Valley Marina Trades Association. "We feel it's a major problem that has to be monitored," he said. "But we think it's more of a problem in the Hudson River than in the inland waters."
He said that most of the boaters who use the reservoirs were bass fisherman, who cleaned and washed their boats themselves, thus not requiring steam cleaning.
A native of the Caspian Sea, the zebra mussel is named for the dark stripes on its light-brown shell. With no natural enemies in the United States, it reproduces prolifically in fresh water, growing to about one or two inches in length.
Introduced into the Great Lakes in 1988 from the ballast water of ships from Europe, the small bivalve has spread from Duluth, Minn., through Lakes Ontario and Erie across the Mohawk River and down the Hudson as far as Beacon and Newburgh.
 
Thermal Water Heaters
 Its main method of dispersal is by attaching itself to the hulls of pleasure or fishing boats or riding in their bilge water, said scientists who are studying the mussel.
They said that control is expensive, requiring construction of thermal water heaters or pipes to carry chlorine or potassium permanganate to the mouth of intake pipes to kill the mussels. But the best control method, the scientists said, is sanitation. This involves removing the mussels by hand or steam from the hulls of boats, one of the favorite living places for the zebra mussels.
From Minnesota to New York, public utilities and municipal water works are spending millions of dollars to prevent or remove zebra mussel blockages. In the Great Lakes alone, officials estimated that it may cost $5 billion in the next 10 years to combat the zebra mussel.
In New York, no overall cost estimates have been made, but individual municipalities and utilities have started to budget and spend money for zebra mussel control.
 
Chemicals Used by Utility
 "If you lose a day down at a major plant, it could cost $200,000 to $300,000 in lost revenues or in purchasing power from others," said John Holsappple of the New York State Electric Energy Research Corporation. "It's not unreasonable to think in terms of losing hundreds of thousands of dollars, easily in the millions if anything goes wrong."
In Orange County near Newburgh, the Central Hudson Gas and Electric Corporation is trying to prevent losses by using a commercial chemical mixture, Clam-Tro, to treat its intake of cooling water at two power plants, Roseton and Danskammer.
"I would say conservatively that we will spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to control the zebra mussel," said Wayne Mancroni, the utility's manager of water quality.
Across the Hudson, the small village of Rhinebeck in Dutchess County, which takes its drinking water from the river, has approved spending up to $140,000 to treat its intake pipes in the river with potassium permanganate, which kills the mussel and its larvae.
 
$10 Million This Year
 The cost will be much higher to protect New York City's upstate reservoirs, Ms. Neuman said. She estimated that the city would spend about $10 million this year and about $1 million a year thereafter.
"By catching the zebra mussel early, we will save money," she said. "By spending now, we will save millions later."
In preparing for the expected invasion of the zebra mussels, Ms. Neuman's office has singled out the Croton system as the most vulnerable of the reservoirs.
"We rated the Croton system the most vulnerable because of its high calcium content, something that the mussels need to grow their shells," she said. "The Delaware and Catskill systems have less calcium and are less vulnerable."
Even though the Croton system has no direct intake connection to the Hudson River, except for the inoperative Chelsea pumping station, the danger lies in contamination from fishermen and recreational boaters who transport their boats from one body of water to another.
 
Signs and Leaflets
 The city has taken action in two ways: by awarding contracts to private engineering firms to devise a plan of action and by starting an educational program for boaters, including the steam-cleaning operation.
It has hired Acres International of Amherst, N.Y., near Buffalo, to monitor samples of water in all the city reservoirs twice a month. It has also hired Malcolm Pirnie, which has its headquarters in White Plains, to draft plans to combat the mussel in the reservoirs when and if found.
In addition, the city has posted 500 signs and issued 15,000 leaflets, warning boat owners who fish in the reservoirs of the dangers of unwittingly transporting zebra mussels or their veligers (larvae) on boat hulls, in bilge waters or in bait buckets.
"We are being very active about this," Mr. Picha said. "We are willing to steam clean any boat that comes from waters that are contaminated with zebra mussels or suspected of being contaminated. But it's not for boats that use the Croton system alone."
Boats will be cleaned by appointment only, he said. Reservations can be made by calling the water supply's Katonah office, 232-5171.
Mr. Picha seemed disappointed that no one has yet taken advantage of the city's offer.
"We sent out several thousand letters to every fish, bait and tackle shop in Westchester, Putnam and Dutchess Counties," he said. "We got a few dozen calls of inquiry, but no boats have actually been cleaned so far. We are all dressed up, with no place to go."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fisherman trying his luck near sign warning people to avoid helping the zebra mussel contaminate Croton reservoir system. Left, jar of zebra mussels. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF THE HUDSON (63%); HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); PUTNAM COUNTY (NY) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; ZEBRA MUSSEL; WATER CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); CITIES (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); MARINAS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAKES (78%); DROUGHT (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (72%); WATER QUALITY (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); MOUNTAINS (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); 

PERSON: FABER, HAROLD JOHN DUFFY (62%); SHARON NEUMAN (55%); CARL PICHA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



576 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
Israeli Stocks' Post-Shamir Rally

BYLINE: By Alison Leigh Cowan

 BODY:
Anyone in Yair Shamir's shoes would have felt torn watching Israel's latest exercise in democracy. The son of the man whom voters cast out of office last month is currently in China and unavailable for comment. But even as he must have mourned the loss of power of his father, Yitzhak, he must also have been pleased by investors' euphoria over the election results.
The younger Mr. Shamir, after all, is executive vice president of one of Israel's hottest growth companies, the Scitex Corporation Ltd. Scitex, a maker of computer graphic systems, is one of many Israeli companies whose stocks have surged in the weeks since the country's Labor Party, led by Yitzhak Rabin, trounced the Likud Party at the polls. 
 Scitex's stock, which trades over the counter in the United States, is up 10.6 percent. Fast-growing ECI Telecommunications Ltd., which has worked mightily to reduce its dependence on military sales, shot up 22.8 percent, while Elron Electronic Industries Ltd., a diversified holding company, jumped 27.6 percent.
Indeed, a survey conducted by Media General Financial Services of 31 Israeli companies traded in American markets found that 27 had risen an average of 15.8 percent since the election, 1 was flat and only 3 retreated (by an average 4.5 percent). One of the losers was BVR Technologies Ltd., a thinly traded company that makes training equipment for fighter planes and whose stock is languishing at $5.88, down 4.1 percent since the election.
What makes the Rabin-ignited rally astonishing is that it was not stopped cold by the prospect of organized labor returning to power. Clearly, investors seem to be saying that peace in the region -- the top priority of the new Government -- would do more for Israel's sputtering economy than any domestic agenda that Labor or Likud might embrace.
The country would be free to spend its hard-earned "peace dividend" on neglected parts of the economy. Stable borders would also pry open new markets for Israeli-made goods in the Arab world and beyond, and possibly encourage allies such as the United States to reward the purveyors of peace with economic aid.
The change in government comes on the heels of other encouraging economic news. The end of the cold war has created markets for Israeli goods in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. And the influx of well-educated immigrants from the former Soviet Union makes the labor force more enticing to high-tech companies as well as swelling the consumer population by some 20 percent.
Investors who missed out on the rally should not be discouraged, because there are probably as many ways to play the Israeli economy as there are fringe parties in the Knesset.
United States investors are free, of course, to buy securities listed on the Tel Aviv stock exchange, though they should have some familiarity with Israeli accounting standards and be able to decipher financial statements in Hebrew.
In the United States equity markets, Scitex and ECI Telecommunications are the two most popular Israeli-based companies, judging by market value, though they are showing signs of maturity. Nimrod Fachler, the chief investment officer of international investment for Mitchell Hutchins, likes Teva Pharmaceutical, Israel's largest drug maker, since it is plying some of the newly opened markets in Eastern Europe.
Also in this country, investment bankers plan to take several new Israeli issues public the next few weeks, starting with Tadiran Ltd., a diversified electronics company that hopes to offer 8.05 million shares later this month at about 11 times last year's earnings.
Investors might also do well to investigate American companies with a known Israeli presence. Take Vishay Intertechnology Inc., a Malvern, Pa., maker of electronic components. It discloses that about 10 percent of its $442.3 million in 1991 sales and 25 percent of its $48 million in operating profits came from goods it makes in Israeli factories, largely to take advantage of low wages, generous tax breaks and other government incentives lavished upon businesses that create jobs.
That percentage may climb now that Vishay has negotiated with a troubled German capacitor company to allow it to move as many as 800 jobs to Israel in exchange for pumping cash into the company. "It's the only way Vishay would have agreed to do the deal," said John Westergaard, the president of Westergaard Institutional Network and an analyst who tracks several Israeli companies.
Not to be overlooked is the PEC Israel Economic Corporation, one of the few ways for a small investor to gain exposure to privately owned Israeli companies as well as public ones.
Much like America's best-known merchant banks, PEC typically takes big stakes in companies so it can exercise influence, and digs in for the long haul. As a result, its interests span several industries, ranging from banking to real estate to high technology to shipping.
On June 1, the company floated 3.8 million shares in the United States at $13.50 apiece, adding to the 15 million already in circulation. Despite the dilution, its shares have soared 21.8 percent since the election.
"People often think of us as a mirror for the Israeli economy," said an obviously pleased Joseph Ciechanover, the company's president.
A research report recently prepared by Furman Selz Inc., one of the company's underwriters, makes a good case that the stock could reach $22. It points out that the 11 public companies in PEC's 23-company portfolio have a collective value of $14.76 a share. In addition, the company would have $2.88 a share in cash on hand after repaying its debts.
Thus, an investor who bought the stock for Friday's closing price of $16.75 would not quite get the 12 private holdings for free since the company would probably owe capital gains taxes if it tried to liquidate the investments. Nonetheless, as long as the private companies fetched more than the $4.45 a share it might take to cover the taxes, investors should have something left over.
In fact, analysts think investors would do quite well. Furman Selz believes the 12 private companies, which include Israel's largest manufacturer of paints and a major cable television company, are worth $8.55 a share. A similar Oppenheimer & Company report values those same assets at about $9.70 a share.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Some Israeli Winners," lists percent change in stock prices of top Israeli-based companies traded in the U.S. since Israel's elections. (Source: Media General Financial Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCIX (TASE) (93%); ELRN (TASE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (93%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (92%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (69%); SIC3699 ELECTRICAL MACHINERY EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES, NEC (67%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SCAILEX CORP LTD (93%); SHAMIR OPTICAL INDUSTRY LTD (92%); ELRON ELECTRONIC INDUSTRIES LTD (84%); ECI TELECOM LTD (69%); TECHNOPRISES LTD (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ISRAEL ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); COLD WAR (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ELECTRONICS (76%); BONDS (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (75%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); ARMS TRADE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); IMMIGRATION (61%); 

PERSON: COWAN, ALISON LEIGH ANN LIVERMORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



577 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
In Washington, The Dollar Has Few Friends

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
As the Democrats recounted the list of economic woes for which they hope voters will hold George Bush responsible, there was a curious omission. The steady slide in the value of the dollar went unnoted and unlamented.
Yet the dollar's fall is in some ways the signal indicator of the decline of America as an economic power over the last three decades. In contrast to such countries as France, where the value of the currency is deemed to be a measure of national accomplishment, the Government of this country has tended to see a sinking buck as a painless way out of economic binds. 
 These days, the hope is that American exports will become more competitive, and thus American incomes (measured in dollars) greater. The fact the same trend damages American consumers by raising the costs of imports is not mentioned. Nor is the fact that as Americans pay more for imports there is less cash left over to buy other things.
In fact, the trade deficit has proved surprisingly resistant to improvement. The May figure released last week was the worst since November 1990, with both exports and imports declining, notwithstanding the fact recessions normally depress imports and boost exports. "The thing that is noteworthy about America is that we are still running trade deficits with a miserable economy," said Michael J. Harkins, the president of Levy, Harkins & Company, a New York money manager that is betting on a further dollar decline.
The dollar's most recent weakness, especially against European currencies, can be traced to Germany's decision to raise interest rates at a time when the only thing the Bush Administration can think of to improve business is to lower rates.
But the decline of the dollar is a longer-term phenomenon. When Ronald Reagan took office, the average American worker earned $249 per week. Last month the average was $363, a 46 percent increase. But expressed in marks it was up just 4 percent, and expressed in yen it was down 11 percent.
Long term, the implications of a depreciating dollar are for rising inflation and a poorer populace. Until now, markets have seemed remarkably unconcerned about such possibilities, but gold's surprising surge last week could signal that is changing.
To a real dollar bear, the eventual result will be a currency crisis, in which the Government must push up interest rates to support the currency, and perhaps even slap on currency controls. But that won't happen as long as the world is happy with the dollar's slow decline, and it seems to be. Bonds sold to foreigners are worth fewer marks or yen than when they were sold, but there is no wholesale liquidation. And few Americans are rushing to take advantage of high German interest rates.
But all that could change, especially if investors decide that it is significant that the once-almighty dollar has few friends in Washington, a fact that will not change whether or not Bill Clinton wins.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Dow Rises 1.08 to 3,331.64," tracks Dow Jones average, July 10-17, 1992; "The Dollar is Down ..." tracks value of dollar in German marks, April 3-July 17,1992; "... And Gold is Rising," tracks weekly close of August gold contract at Comex, April 3-July 17, 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (88%); EUROPE (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (88%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CURRENCIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TRENDS (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); INFLATION (73%); LIQUIDATIONS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); EXPORT PROMOTION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



578 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2068 words

HEADLINE: The Calls for an Industrial Policy Grow Louder

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Industrial policy, the notion that government should help the industries and technologies of the future, is moving out of the doghouse and into the limelight.
The idea -- derided by some Reagan and Bush Administration officials as a violation of laissez-faire -- has picked up steam because many Americans yearn for Washington to do more to strengthen the economy. It has also been fueled by concerns that more and more American industries are falling behind their Japanese counterparts. 
 Suddenly, it seems, the importance of muscular policies to help industry is being discussed everywhere -- in the Presidential campaign, in industry councils, in Congressional proposals and in several best-selling books. Everyone seems to agree that helping the industries of tomorrow is crucial for creating jobs -- and high-wage ones at that.
Gov. Bill Clinton has said that if he wins the White House he will set up a powerful agency to help finance and coordinate research and development for "cutting-edge products and technologies." His Democratic running mate, Senator Albert Gore, one of Congress's most vigorous supporters of helping high-tech industries, is sponsoring legislation to build a nationwide network that would link sophisticated computers in businesses, schools, laboratories and hospitals.
For its part, the Bush Administration, despite its free-market philosophy, has stepped up efforts to finance research in promising technologies, like high-speed computing, biotechnology and batteries for electric cars. Richard G. Darman, the budget director and no fan of big government, likes to boast that the Administration has increased the Federal budget for non-military research by 7 percent over last year.
"Industrial policy is an idea whose time has come," said Clyde Prestowitz, a former Reagan Administration official who is president of the Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington-based research group. "Even the Bush Administration is going that way."
Before Ross Perot dropped out of the race, one of the main themes of his campaign was meeting the Japanese industrial challenge head on. He called for targeting industries of the future to keep them from being wiped out by the Japanese, and he wanted to "improve on" Tokyo's vaunted Ministry of International Trade and Industry, which helped orchestrate Japan's great industrial leap forward.
Industrial policy means many things to many people. Its critics say it means that government picks winners and losers among industries and companies. But supporters say industrial policy simply means aiding industry by helping to develop critical technologies and by providing fertile conditions for the industries of tomorrow to grow.
"There is a critical mass developing" on industrial policy, said Senator Jeff Bingaman, a New Mexico Democrat who is Congress's leading advocate of an increased Federal role to back developing technologies. "More and more people seem to recognize that the long-term trends have not been favorable to the U.S. in terms of our ability to compete in world markets. One element of turning that around is having the Government become a more active catalyst for the changes that are required."
The United States has had an undeclared industrial policy for years. That policy aimed to create the world's most advanced military industry, and one reason the Soviet Union collapsed is that it spent so much money trying to keep up.
With the cold war over, the need to convert from military to civilian production is one of the major engines behind the push for an industrial policy. The new Defense Conversion Initiative in Congress aims to insure that the talents of thousands of research engineers who helped build the world's most sophisticated military machine are used to develop commercial technologies. There is also a push to get military companies to adopt flexible manufacturing techniques so that factories that make fighter aircraft today might make high-speed trains tomorrow.
Adding to the momentum for an industrial policy are the many new books and studies showing that government support for Japanese and German industries has often given them a leg up on their American rivals. These books include "Head to Head," by Lester Thurow, dean of M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Management, and "A Cold Peace," by Jeffrey E. Garten, an investment banker who used to work in the State Department.
Airbus Industrie, the four-nation aircraft consortium, is probably the best example of how government aid to a manufacturer has clipped the wings of American competitors. Airbus has badly bruised McDonnell-Douglas and has become Boeing's main challenger thanks to an estimated $20 billion in aid from European governments.
"We're faced with a situation now where the rest of the world takes it as a standard method of operating for industry and government to cooperate on what they consider to be the critical industries and technologies for their country," said William J. Spencer, president of Sematech, a Government-backed alliance of companies in the semiconductor industry. "That's happened in the Pacific Rim countries since World War II, and that's happening in Europe. The U.S. will be at a disadvantage in world competition if we don't find an American way of working together."
Many supporters of industrial policy say it is just one piece of an overall strategy needed to make the American economy more competitive. The litany of additional suggestions to fortify industry is endless: improve schools, cut capital gains taxes to spur investment, increase job training, upgrade roads and airports to reduce transportation costs and adopt a tougher trade policy with countries that discriminate against American goods.
Mr. Clinton's new economic plan contains numerous proposals to help high-technology industries, among them making the research and development tax credit permanent and investing $50 billion more a year in education, job training and infrastructure. He also calls for the creation of a new civilian research agency, which would act like the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The Pentagon has used that agency to help develop new technologies, including computer graphics, semiconductors and computer-controlled machine tools. The agency Mr. Clinton proposes would bring together businesses, universities and laboratories to do research and development in civilian technologies.
THE Bush Administration says it backs a technology policy, eschewing the term "industrial policy." In its National Technology Initiative, the Administration encourages businesses to work closely with the 726 Federal laboratories; they have signed 1,200 cooperative agreements in the last 18 months.
The Administration is also setting up a Critical Technologies Institute, staffed by engineers from around the nation, to identify the crucial emerging technologies and determine which deserve Federal backing.
"I think that we have a very major role to play in developing the basic knowledge, the basic generic technologies that undergird all of our industrial activity," said the White House's science adviser, D. Allan Bromley. "Do I think we should pick companies in various fields that may be in trouble and use taxpayer dollars to specifically assist them? Then, the answer is no."
In the 1980's, industrial policy proposals came under attack from conservatives who said it meant that government officials, believing themselves omniscient, would somehow divine the growth industries of tomorrow and throw the Government's weight and money behind them. Critics wondered how the people who brought the world $300 billion annual deficits could summon the vision to decide whether gallium arsenide chips or liquid crystal displays were the technologies to bet on.
"I leave it to I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard to decide what are the important future technologies," said Herbert Stein, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute. "I don't think Washington has any comparative advantage in doing that."
Fears also abound that Washington would give money to the politically connected rather than the technologically deserving. "It's not very encouraging to see that in the appropriations bill, every Congressman with influence has given his pet college an R.&D. grant," said Charles Schultze, an economist at the Brookings Institution.
The Government has gotten mixed reviews for its past dabblings in industrial policy. A decade ago Washington spent $1 billion to help several military contractors develop high-speed integrated circuits for military equipment. It was embarrassing that Intel got there first without Federal financing.
At the same time, many people say Sematech, which aimed to improve the nation's capability in producing machinery to make semiconductors, is a success. The proof, they say, is that the nation has gained market share in semiconductor sales.
STILL, many people are asking how wise it is for taxpayers to finance programs like Sematech when companies share their expertise with foreign companies and build factories abroad. That happened last week when Advanced Micro Devices announced it would team up with Fujitsu to build a $700 million factory to make advanced semiconductors in Japan.
Nowadays it seems that everyone is against industrial policy if it means that government picks winners and losers. But it also seems that everyone backs industrial policy if it means adopting policies that help industry.
"This is not a matter of picking winners and losers," said Senator Bingaman. "Industry should do the choosing, but when a choice has been made, and when it's clear that a particular technology has the potential to be a winner, government should help it become one."
The Commerce and Defense Departments have made lists of what they view as critical technologies of tomorrow. The Defense list includes robotics, sensitive radars and air-breathing propulsion. The Commerce list includes superconductors, flexible computer-integrated manufacturing and opto-electronics, like lasers and optical fibers. Both cite biotechnology, advanced sensors and advanced semiconductor devices.
"It's very important that the public sector, led by the Administration and Congress, publicly espouse the fact that the country's future growth depends on our technological health, especially on certain critical technologies," said George M. C. Fisher, chairman of Motorola and president of the Council on Competitiveness, a business-labor group. "Other countries seem to be willing to do more about that than we are."
 
 
 
LESSONS FROM GERMANY AND JAPAN
 Americans have a lot to learn from Europe and Japan, supporters of industrial policy say. The Japanese Government spends 50 percent more on non-military research and development than Washington does as a percentage of gross domestic product. Germany spends 14.5 percent of its government R.&D. money on industrial development, while the United States spends less than 1 percent.
Many Americans also admire how fast the Japanese turn basic technologies into commercial products. The Commerce Department is pushing to speed this process by encouraging American companies to cooperate far more closely with Federal laboratories.
"We are trying to accelerate the commercialization of technologies," said Robert M. White, Under Secretary of Commerce for Technology Administration.
Robert Reich, an economics professor at the Kennedy School of Government, praises European policies that support industries with the aim of bolstering job skills. "Europe supports Airbus not because it expects Airbus to be a profitable company, but because it wants to gain cutting-edge skills in aerospace," he said. He argues that efforts to back high-tech industry should also aim to give Americans high-tech skills and jobs.
Many experts envy Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry, which not only decides which technologies deserve government backing but also coordinates trade and regulatory policies to help Japanese industry capture the lead in those technologies.
Lester Thurow, dean of M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Management, says American industry could be left behind if Washington sits idly by while its competitors aggressively back industry. "You have to have a defensive industrial policy even if you don't believe in an offensive industrial policy," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: 'Industrial policy is an idea whose time has come. Even the Bush Administration is going that way.' -- Clyde Prestowitz, Economic Strategy Institute; 'I leave it to I.B.M. and Hewlett-Packard to decide what are the important future technologies.' -- Herbert Stein, American Enterprise Institute
 
Chart: "U.S. Industries: How Competitive Are They?", lists major U.S. industries and technologies, with they relative strength in world economy (Source: Council on Competitiveness)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INDUSTRIES LIFE INSURANCE CO (57%); AMERICAN INDUSTRIES INC (57%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (59%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (59%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); TRENDS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (64%); BESTSELLERS (54%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (79%); JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



579 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Making a Difference;
Winning Big At Airbus

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
When John Leahy, the vice president of marketing for Airbus Industrie in the United States, was given the job of selling the A320 airplane to United Airlines early this year, he knew he faced a Herculean task.
United had bought nothing but Boeing planes since 1978. It had always been Boeing's biggest and most loyal customer and Mr. Leahy knew Boeing would make every effort to keep it that way. 
 Besides, Airbus had failed three times before to win United over to its planes. Airbus, a consortium of companies from France, Spain, Britain and Germany, controls about 30 percent of the world market and is second in size only to Boeing.
"We had three strikes against us," said Mr. Leahy, who is based in Herndon, Va. Nevertheless, he said, he also knew that if there was any plane that had an advantage over a Boeing product it was the A320 over the 737-400.
The A320 flies faster, higher and with better fuel economy. If the bids were similar in price, Airbus had a good chance for a breakthrough this time around, Mr. Leahy felt.
After five days of intense negotiations early this month, with the Airbus team in one room and the Boeing team in another, the two bids were close in financial terms. It was up to Lou Valerio, the vice president of finance for United, to evaluate them.
To the jubilation of Mr. Leahy and his staff, the evaluation came out in favor of Airbus. On July 9, United announced that it would lease 50 A320's on a long-term basis with options for 50 more. Exact terms were not disclosed but the twin-engine jets normally sell for about $45 million each.
Mr. Leahy, who is 42 years old, has been flying light aircraft since he was a young man and still loves to solo in a Piper or other small plane.
After college -- he holds a degree in communications and philosophy from Fordham University and an M.B.A. from Syracuse -- he went to work for Piper Aircraft in sales. The general aviation market was booming at the time and he was ultimately sent to Geneva to head Piper's European sales operation.
He was recruited by Airbus in 1984. He said he left Piper because the general aviation industry "was going into a recession, liability insurance was up and sales were plummeting. Airbus was going to grow rapidly and I had something to offer them."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (71%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO; UNITED AIRLINES INC; AIRBUS INDUSTRIE AIRBUS SAS (96%); BOEING CO (92%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; UNITED AIRLINES INC; AIRBUS INDUSTRIE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (71%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (57%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN LEAHY (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



580 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: The Shrinking of the American Oil Industry

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
The latest statistics on the American oil industry make it sound as though the oil patch has discovered time travel. Oil imports are at their highest levels since 1978 and domestic production has fallen to where it was back in 1961, the American Petroleum Institute said last week. And the number of oil and gas drilling rigs at work in the country recently hit a low not seen since records began to be kept 50 years ago.
As for the future of the American-based oil industry, it appears to be somewhere abroad, where companies are drilling with a vengeance. 
 The institute, in releasing the dismal figures for the first half of 1992, pointed out that along with disappearing domestic oil there is a disappearing domestic oil industry. In the last 10 years, jobs related to drilling been cut almost in half. Refinery employment is also falling, and companies are cutting headquarters jobs. In just three days earlier this month, Amoco said it would eliminate 8,500 jobs, or 15.7 percent of its total; Mobil said it would cut 2,000 and Unocal, 1,000.
"All of a sudden, you've had a change in psychology, particularly of the major companies," said James Schlesinger, the Carter Administration energy chief who is now with Shearson Lehman Hutton. "They say, 'The American oil province is never going to recover; let's put our money overseas and stop fooling ourselves.' It's almost an infectious decision."
That seems to beg the question: Does the United States really need much of a domestic oil industry anyway?
Mr. Schlesinger and others say that in a really free world market, the most attractive geologic targets will be drilled first, and right now those are abroad. During the cold war, international tensions made oil a strategic asset and provided a rationale for Washington to encourage domestic drilling even if it was uneconomical. But that logic is fading.
At the same time, new clean-air rules are making it harder to refine oil here, and exporting countries are building their own refineries. So while drilling and refining were once a big part of the American economy, for better or for worse, the country will probably have to learn to get along without it, unless Government policy shifts again.
Such a change, of course, would take money, in the form of higher prices or tax subsidies to stimulate production and return the industry to the way it was in the early 1980's. But there is little likelihood that strong action will come from Washington. The National Energy Strategy, which has passed the House and Senate in different forms and is likely to be signed by the President before Election Day, provides nearly nothing for the domestic oil industry.
Although it gives a tax break for independent companies, the strategy continues to keep drilling rigs out of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, which the industry believes is the country's best prospect for oil. And it extends moratoriums on offshore drilling.
Some in Washington, though, say the Government should be trying harder to save the industry, which was mostly invented here.
"It's very disturbing," Linda G. Stuntz, the acting Deputy Secretary of Energy, said of the decline in the American industry. The Government has allowed other industries to fade away, she said, "and now we're trying desperately to get something back, like high-definition television or flat-panel displays."
Oil, she says, is all the more critical not only because the nation needs fuel, but because the industry supports other parts of the economy. "Along with the actual guys on the rigs," she said, "you don't have the money in the grocery stores and the real estate companies and the banks."
But many economists say that the Government should not help the industry here if the prospects for finding oil look better abroad, and if the country is committed to free trade.
If capital is moving abroad, "all that says is that comparative advantage is changing," said Robert E. Lipsey, an economist at the National Bureau of Economic Research, in New York. "About two-thirds of all the wells ever drilled for oil and gas were drilled in the United States, and these days the grass looks greener elsewhere."
All the signs point toward a continuing contraction in oil:
* The count of drilling rigs looking for oil and gas hit 596 last month, down from a peak of 4,530 at the end of 1981, according to Baker Hughes, a machinery company that keeps track of such things. John Lichtblau, director of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, predicted the decline would accelerate at the end of this year, when tax incentives on some natural gas drilling expire.
* Last year exploration and development in the United States by a group of 30 large oil and gas companies tracked by Arthur Andersen & Company fell by 4 percent. Their investment abroad increased by 27 percent and their total capital expenditures were more than 50 percent higher abroad than in this country. As recently as 1987, their domestic spending exceeded their foreign expenditures.
* In the first half of 1992, the shift to foreign investment appears to have accelerated. Companies made deep cuts in their North American exploration and production budgets, according to a study by Salomon Brothers, and did not even spend what they had budgeted. Spending abroad, on the other hand, rose.
These trends have conspired to increase imports, which, according to the most recent industry figures, have reached 7.355 million barrels a day, the highest since December 1978, and 52 percent of the amount run through domestic refineries. Domestic production was 7.21 million barrels.
Many politicians and others argue that it is unhealthy for the country to import so much oil, and that this could be fatal in time of war. But the end of the cold war and the end of the Soviet threat to the Middle East, which has two-thirds of the world's known oil reserves, has muted those arguments.
Economists in general say investing in drilling abroad is fine for now because it means the oil industry is globalizing as the auto and steel industries have done. On the question of whether the United States needs an oil industry, "What you need is reflected in what you can produce at a profit," said Robert Z. Lawrence, a professor of international trade and investment at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. "Asking what we need is asking, in a sense, 'Is there some nonmarket reason why the Government should be concerned about a particular sector above other sectors?' " In that sense, he said, oil wells are going the way of the family farm, pushed aside by new economic realities.
In fact, efficiency and technological progress contributed to the industry's shrinkage.
For example, said William L. Fisher, of the Bureau of Economic Geology at the University of Texas, companies have to drill only 40 percent as many wells to discover oil as they did 20 years ago. That means less work to go around.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Oil Patch Blues," tracks employment in the oil extraction industry and U.S. crude oil production, 1980-1992 (Source: American Petroleum Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (64%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (91%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (91%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (64%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (94%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (88%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); COLD WAR (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); WILDLIFE (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (63%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L JAMES RODNEY SCHLESINGER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



581 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary/July 12-17

BYLINE: By Joel Kurtzman

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Clinton Will Run on a Lackluster Economy 

At least some of the tears streaming down the cheeks of those listening to the emotional acceptance speech of Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Clinton belonged to the Republicans. Mr. Clinton had surged ahead of President Bush in the polls. He said he was running on a platform that emphasized rebuilding the economy, taxing the wealthy, investing in people and creating a universal health care system. Mr. Clinton also cited the growth in joblessness, the increase in the size of the Federal deficit and the decline in income growth under President Bush. "Our country is falling behind," Mr. Clinton said. "We've gone from first to 13th in the world in wages since Reagan and Bush have been in office." Reacting to the polls, Robert Teeter, Mr. Bush's campaign chairman, said he was not alarmed. There was "no question in our mind ever that Gov. Clinton would get a big bump out of this convention," he said.
 
Perot Hits the Eject Button
 
Ross Perot, phasers set on stun, blasted into politics by telling viewers on "Larry King Live" he would run for President if they put him on the ballot in all 50 states. They were well on their way to doing that. But last week -- just after Edward J. Rollins, one of Mr. Perot's dream team of political advisers, quit the campaign -- Mr. Perot retired from the race. The withdrawal came shortly after the Texas billionaire played host to a group of 100 would-be advisers for a series of hush-hush meetings in Washington and after he brought scores of savvy citizens to Dallas. But Mr. Perot began tumbling in the polls. He told his volunteers that "there is no question that you have changed politics in this country, and it is a change for the better."
 
The Stutter in Housing Starts
 
It's the housing industry that often leads the nation into recovery. Dig a foundation and you are putting people to work. Put up the walls on your new digs and you have to buy materials. But last month, according to the Commerce Department, the housing industry led the nation where it has already been -- a slump. Housing starts declined by 2.3 percent from May, while requests for building permits were down 1.3 percent.

The Rebound Loses Its Spring
 
If you thought manufacturing output, which had been growing for the last five months, would continue to lift the economy out of its malaise, think again. According to the Federal Reserve, output at the nation's factories fell by 0.3 percent last month. "There is no acceleration in the economy's growth," said Allen Sinai, president of the Boston Company.

Big Brother Gets Bigger
 
Ever wonder what was the result of all that talk about trimming back government? Well, surprise, big government got even bigger. The Labor Department said 18.6 million people were on the nation's Federal, state and local government payrolls in June, up from 16.4 million in 1980. There are now more bureaucrats than factory workers. The department reported that there were 18.2 million manufacturing jobs last month. "Manufacturing jobs have gone overseas," said Kathleen Camilli of Maria Ramirez Capital Consultants. Government jobs, on the other hand, have not been exported.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL

 
Tightening Up at the Bundesbank
 
When Germany's central bank, the Bundesbank, raised the discount rate to 8.75 percent from 8 percent last week, the move was widely perceived as symbolic. After all, the discount rate only applies to short-term bank borrowing. Long-term rates would only be driven up by a quarter of a percentage point or so as a result of the action, economists said. But Germany is serious about slowing its overheated economy and about curbing the growth of money and credit. As a result, rather than being symbolic, last week's rate increases "may just be the beginning," said Carl Weinberg, chief economist of High Frequency Economics in New York. "My view is there is going to be another tightening of interest rates, most likely before the end of the summer." If Mr. Weinberg is correct, the dollar, which is already at all-time lows against the mark, could fall further.

The Elusive Convertible Ruble
 
Ever since former President Mikhail S. Gorbachev first took power in 1985, reformers in the Kremlin said a fully convertible ruble was just six months away. The latest deadline for convertibility was later this month. But last week, the economic braintrust working for Russian President Boris N. Yeltsin said it would take a little longer than anticipated to make the change. The reason, the economists said, was that the International Monetary Fund has so far refused to set up a $6 billion fund to stabilize the currency. The I.M.F. is unhappy with the pace of reforms in Russia, especially with its inability to control prices. Without real reforms, the I.M.F. said, transferring $6 billion would only add cash to Russia's till, not help the currency. Last week Michel Camdessus, the I.M.F.'s managing director, flew to meet with the reformers in Moscow. As a result of the squabbles, economists say now the ruble is not likely to be convertible until early 1993 -- about six months away.

The Wages of Workaholism
 
In workaholic Japan they call it "karoshi," death from overwork. About 10,000 workers, mostly blue collar, die from karoshi each year, according to the National Defense Council for Victims of Karoshi. But white-collar workers are victims as well. Last week, Japan's Labor Standards Inspection Office ruled that 47-year-old Jun Ishii, an executive at Mitsui & Company, died from karoshi late last year. Mr. Ishii had spent a third of 1991 on the road for his company. He collapsed and died in his hotel room in Nagoya. The ruling means Mr. Ishii's family is now entitled to additional compensation from Mitsui.

 
 
COMPANIES

 
I.B.M.'s Tentacles
 
Over the last year, the International Business Machines Corporation has formed alliances and joint ventures with former rivals and new-found friends from around the world. Apple, Siemens, Toshiba, Thinking Machines, Intel and others are all working on projects with Big Blue. Last week, it made a tripartite deal with Japan's Toshiba and Germany's Siemens to jointly develop a new generation of memory chips capable of storing 256 million bits of data. The alliance shows how strong Big Blue remains in technology and how battered its rivals have become. "Even the Japanese are beginning to feel the heat," said Clyde V. Prestowitz, president of the Economic Strategy Institute.

Advanced Micro's 'Flash' Links
 
While Big Blue dazzles them with yet another new relationship, Advanced Micro Devices Inc. -- a relative stranger to the world of alliances -- is teaming up with Japan's largest computer company, Fujitsu, in a $700 million deal to develop "flash" memory chips. The market for these nifty new devices -- which are small, lightweight and can store information even when the power is switched off -- is expected to grow to $1.5 billion by 1995, from $130 million last year. Flash chips could replace hard disks in laptop and palmtop computers. Advanced Micro has been critical of Japan. But the high cost of developing chips is driving this technology embrace. "It is becoming increasingly difficult to succeed if a company plays by itself," said Hikotaro Masunaga, a managing director of Fujitsu.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Democratic nominee Bill Clinton and his wife, Hillary; Kenneth Olsen makes his exit. Boris Yeltsin; Ross Perot.
 
Graphs track federal budget deficit, inflation rate, rate of economic growth and unemployment rate, 1980, 1988 and 1992 (Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis, M.B.G. group ('92, estimate); percent change in industrial production, July 1991-June 1992 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (60%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); HOUSING STARTS (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (64%); BUILDING PERMITS (61%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



582 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: Making a Difference;
A Flashy Team Effort

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
HIKOTARO MASUNAGA had been managing director of Fujitsu Ltd. in charge of semiconductors for less than three weeks when he took his first bold step. On Monday, Fujitsu announced that it had entered a joint venture with Advanced Micro Devices Inc., an American semiconductor company, to jointly develop and make an exciting new type of memory chip.
While there has recently been a spate of semiconductor alliances, this one goes further than most. Fujitsu and Advanced Micro said they would contribute equally to build a $700 million factory in Japan to produce flash memories, a type of chip that has the potential to replace disk drives for permanent information storage in computers. To cement the relationship, the two companies also said they would buy small equity positions -- less than 5 percent -- in each other. 
 Such a major collaboration, of course, was not negotiated since Mr. Masunaga's promotion, but has been under discussion since the beginning of the year. Nevertheless, even before his promotion, Mr. Masunaga was the key architect of the deal for Fujitsu.
Joint activities like this one are becoming necessary because few companies can afford the ever more expensive semiconductor factories.
"It is becoming increasingly difficult to succeed if a company is going to play by itself," said Mr. Masunaga. He also predicted the alliance would be "very beneficial to the U.S.-Japan relationship."
Mr. Masunaga, 55, graduated from Waseda University in Tokyo with a degree in engineering and received a master's degree in microwave engineering from London University.
He joined Fujitsu, Japan's largest computer company, as a semiconductor engineer in 1967 and reached the position of general manager of the electronic devices group last year. In June he took on the additional title of managing director and became the company's top semiconductor executive.
Mr. Masunaga has his work cut out for him. With the world economy weak, there is an oversupply of memory chips and prices are depressed. That is sharply cutting profits or even leading to losses in the semiconductor divisions of Japanese electronics companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FUJ (LSE) (96%); 6702 (TSE) (96%); AMD (NYSE) (92%); AMD (FRA) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (90%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

COMPANY: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC; FUJITSU LTD FUJITSU LTD (96%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC; FUJITSU LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SEMICONDUCTORS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS JOINT VENTURES (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); MEMORY CHIPS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); 

PERSON: HIKOTARO MASUNAGA (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



583 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Data on Disabilities, True and False

BYLINE: By BARBARA PRESLEY NOBLE

 BODY:
Among the early pages of a new study on the impact of the Americans With Disabilities Act is a chart listing 10 dearly held attitudes about people with disabilities and their ability to work. Among them:
* Employees with disabilities cannot succeed in the competitive job market. 
 * Employers believe it will be unduly expensive to provide accommodations for workers under the act.
* Employees with disabilities create safety risks in the workplace.
* Customers and clients are uncomfortable in the presence of disabled employees.
Perhaps the study's author, Peter David Blanck, a law professor at the University of Iowa and a fellow of the Annenberg Foundation, a nonpartisan research group based in Washington, could have simply incorporated the 10 into his text, but that would have lessened the impact of what appears just to the right of each statement: The word "False," forming a 10-rung ladder of reproach down the column.
The questions, of course, are, how does Mr. Blanck know what he says he knows and how does he know it now? The second phase of the A.D.A., requiring compliance from employers with more than 25 workers, does not go into effect until next Sunday. The first phase, affecting public accommodation of people with disabilities, began only in January, and there has been so much anticipatory sound and fury over the legislation that there has hardly been time for a dispassionate evaluation. Is Mr. Blanck just another Harvard-educated, Stanford-trained smarty-pants with a sociopolitical agenda?
"I am at the interface of employers and advocates," Mr. Blanck said during a telephone interview from his office in Iowa City. "The point was to begin a dialogue on these issues and to help resolve disputes without resorting to litigation."
At least four years ago, he said, when the A.D.A. was still just a blur in the eyes of several legislators and lobbying groups, there was an obvious need for empirical information on the ability of people with disabilities to work -- and the ability of workplaces to accommodate them. "There was a lack of information out there," he said. "Just a lack of hard facts."
"We knew that a Federal effort was down the pike, though we didn't know what it would be," Mr. Blanck said. As a scholar with training in psychology, the science of individual behavior, and law, the formal rules of social behavior, Mr. Blanck was aware that policy, the implementation of good intentions, frequently outruns knowledge. There was, for example, little longitudinal research on the impact of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, a measure affecting Federal workplaces and contractors that was the spiritual ancestor of the A.D.A.
Thus was Mr. Blanck's project, which began in 1989, both obvious and, in policy science, unusual. "To have subsequent comparisons, we needed baseline data," he said. His approach, drawing on techniques used in economic, medical and social research, was interdisciplinary and inclusive of those he refers to as "consumers" of the A.D.A. -- people with disabilities -- and "users" -- the employers.
The consumers studied were mentally retarded, many with various "physical challenges." Mr. Blanck estimates that 20 to 30 percent of the 43 million Americans said to be disabled fall into the category of people he studied. His users covered a range of large and small workplaces, from fast-food businesses to hospitals to sales organizations to high-tech production companies.
It is on the basis of the first year of data, from 1989, that Mr. Blanck assigned some common beliefs about disabilities to the realm of mythology. Perhaps most surprising, given the protesting voices of several trade associations in recent months, was that in 1989 at least, employers displayed little concern over the potential costs of the A.D.A. That may be because employers are more familiar than trade associations with the work of employees with disabilities. Even in 1989, many companies were making efforts to accomodate those with disabilities. "Larger, innovative employers have been doing this all along," Mr. Blanck said.
Employers may do well to transfer that sense of inevitability to other groups of employees. Woven into the wealth of detail on attitudes of and about people with disabilities in Mr. Blanck's study is a subtext about the workplace of the future. More and more employees are seeking flexible work arrangements tailored to their personal lives. The A.D.A. is one version of what employers are doing all the time, said Mr. Blanck: "Accommodating."

 
 
IS IT PERSONAL, OR JOB RELATED?
The Americans With Disabilities Act requires employers to make "reasonable" accommodations so that people with disabilities can perform the "essential functions" of their jobs. But the definition of "reasonable" has vexed the collective corporate mind for several years, according to a baseline study by Peter David Blanck. Part one of the research is published in the current issue of the Journal of Corporation Law.
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission "said there had to be a 'nexus between an individual's disability and the need for accommodation,' " said Mr. Blanck. That is a less-than-crystalline standard. Employers are particularly concerned about finding the line between personal accommodations, which they need not make, and the job-related accommodations they are required to make.
With many disabilities, there is no clear distinction between the personal and the job -related. Some of the disabled people might need help help getting to the bathroom or communicating with co-workers and clients, for example. "Their personal needs are intimately related to their ability to work," Mr. Blanck said. "Where do you draw the line?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter D. Blanck, University of Iowa: "There was a lack of information out there. Just a lack of hard facts." (Scott Norris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF IOWA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HANDICAPPED; AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (1991); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DISABLED PERSONS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (90%); DISABLED ACCESS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DISABLED WORKERS (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); LOBBYING (65%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: BLANCK, PETER D (PROF) PETER DAVID BLANCK (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



584 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 3; Styles of The Times

LENGTH: 2255 words

HEADLINE: The Prime of Tipper Gore

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
THE times seem to have caught up with Tipper Gore, wife of the the Democratic candidate for Vice President. A vision of blondness, she gathered her four beaming children and her broad-shouldered husband for a family tableau on the convention podium last Thursday night and laid claim to being an updated version of the traditional political wife.
Mrs. Gore and her friends are trying to undo the cartoonish image of her as the prissy, humorless Carry Nation of rock-and-roll. She's really funky and soft-hearted, they say. Her assistant faxed a newspaper article that described her as a woman "whose passion for homeless, poor and mentally ill children carries a world of weight." 
 In an interview last week, Mrs. Gore sheepishly confessed that she had just bought the double compact disk of the Grateful Dead's "Europe '72" album. According to an article in Entertainment Weekly, she played drums in high school in an all-girl band called the Wildcats. And after her husband's acceptance speech, Mrs. Gore, in a form-fitting blue dress, boogied with him to the throbbing beat of Paul Simon and Fleetwood Mac.
She has begun to win over the music industry, which loathed her 1980's crusade against what she called the sadism of Twisted Sister, Motley Crue and other rock bands. She pressured them to voluntarily put labels on albums that contained sexually explicit lyrics, though she opposed legislation to ban the sale of raunchy records to minors. "She stayed faithful to her promise that she was against censorship," said Danny Goldberg, senior vice president of Atlantic Records.
Carter Eskew, a Gore family friend and a consultant to the Clinton campaign, was sure to mention Mrs. Gore's collection of rock and jazz oldies. "She's not at all uptight or judgmental," he said. "She's incredibly fun."
Fun.
In Presidential elections, the wives of candidates become a kind of Rorschach test for the nation on what it means to be a woman. This year's role models could not be more different: Mrs. Gore, Hillary Clinton, Barbara Bush, Marilyn Quayle.
On the so-called baby boomers' ticket, Mrs. Gore and Mrs. Clinton symbolize for many the two paths women of their generation have chosen and the struggle of homemakers and women who work outside the home to come to terms with each other. The strong public reaction to both women reflects society's ambivalence. Each has been caricatured: Mrs. Clinton as the selfish, shrewish career woman, Mrs. Gore as the prudish housewife.
The two are now trying hard to convince the public that they have a lot in common: they are both mothers, feminists and advocates for children. But above all, they are the wives of politicians.
Unlike Mrs. Clinton, Mrs. Gore sacrificed her personal ambitions to raise four children. As her husband's career rose, she gave up her dream of becoming a child psychologist, quit her job as a newspaper photographer and cut short the publicity tour for her book, "Raising PG Kids in an X-Rated Society."
Last week, Mrs. Gore was again in her role as political wife. She has been in it for 16 years, and she is a pro.
Her press aide, Kiki Moore, brought in reporters for half-hour interviews with her in a hotel room. Ms. Moore suggested that Mrs. Gore sit in a wingback chair (better for photographs). Mrs. Gore perched herself at the edge of the chair, poised and polished in her fuchsia suit, black pumps and blow-dried pageboy. She seemed to gird herself
for the painful, intrusive and often silly questions she has to endure.
Asked why she never became a psychologist, Mrs. Gore was silent for a moment. The look on her face was unreadable, almost blank. Finally, she said, "Because that's what made sense to me."
"There are incremental decisions that one makes as one moves through one's life," she said. "I still have young children. My youngest is 9. I'm certainly doing a little bit more in terms of volunteer activity now. It's kind of an ebb and flow. And I've been fortunate enough to be in the position where I don't economically have to go and work full time, which I think many parents do."
The Democrats will portray Mrs. Clinton and Mrs. Gore as apotheoses of their era. "What a powerful team!" said Nancy Hoit, a friend of the Gores. "They are two women who truly represent the women of their generation, trying to balance all the complicated demands of home and career and the causes they care about." Republican strategists have made no secret of their desire to exploit the differences between the women and, if possible, to set them against each other. But Mrs. Gore and Mrs. Clinton have given them little opportunity. On the convention podium, the women threw their arms around each other and hopped up and down like pep squad leaders whose team had just won the game.
Earlier in the week, Mrs. Gore introduced Mrs. Clinton at a party of Congressional wives as "a mother, a child advocate and a person of principle whom I deeply admire." Mrs. Gore later said Mrs. Clinton had been "giving me some great tips" on how to protect her children -- Karenna, 18 years old; Kristin, 15; Sarah, 13, and Albert, 9 -- from the stresses of the campaign. (Rule No. 1: Keep the children away from the press.) Mrs. Gore also had her hair styled by Mrs. Clinton's hairdresser, Kristof, in a cut that is the image of Mrs. Clinton's post-headband pageboy.
Mary Elizabeth Aitcheson was born on Aug. 19, 1948, in Washington. Her mother nicknamed her Tipper when she was a baby. Family history has it that this endearment came from a song her mother sang to her. Her parents were divorced when she was 4, and she and her mother moved in with her grandparents in Virginia. It was the 1950's, a sad and lonely time to be a girl from a broken home -- an experience that she said has given her empathy for the suffering of others.
She attended a girls' school in Washington. She later told a reporter, "I was not raised to do anything except get married and have children." She met Al Gore at his high school prom in suburban Washington, and they soon became sweethearts. He took her home to Carthage, Tenn., to meet his father, Senator Albert Gore, and his mother, Pauline Gore.
"She was dressed fit to kill," the elder Mr. Gore recalled recently. "She was a lovely blonde, beautiful sparkling eyes, shapely and pleasant. I was even more struck by her beauty the next morning. She came to breakfast with every eyelash in place. She was dressed for an evening ball."
Al Jr. went to Harvard University. Tipper followed him to Boston a year later. She graduated with a degree in psychology from Boston University in 1970. The next month, they were married. She was 21.
When her husband was elected to Congress in 1976, Mrs. Gore gave up her job as a newspaper photographer at The Tennessean in Nashville.
"I built a darkroom at my home in Virginia and freelanced in Washington," she said. "I had a picture in The Washington Star. I had some pictures in The Washington Post. One I remember was of the opening of 'Coal Miner's Daughter.' There were others in trade journals. I found that it was better to work with those types of publications because I could set my own schedule. I had young children."
Chris Downey, wife of Representative Thomas J. Downey, Democrat of New York, met Mrs. Gore a few years after the Gores moved to Washington. The women often jog together.
"She's very funny," Mrs. Downey said. "All we do is giggle. When I need to talk to her, she is absolutely there for me. She's a real good friend. She keeps her counsel."
Mrs. Downey said her friend had taken on the primary burden of raising four children. Her husband often goes to Tennessee on weekends and works late on Capitol Hill. She maintains two houses in two worlds: Arlington, Va., and Carthage, Tenn.
"You're sacrificing every day," Mrs. Downey said. "Giving up the book tour and the photography is the least of what Tipper has given up over the years."
"Women like Tipper subsidize the women who work," Mrs. Downey said. "She volunteers for the P.T.A. She improves the quality of children's education. I'm indebted to women like Tipper. I wish I could stay home, but its financially impossible. She's like all those women who could be getting paid money, but choose to make their time available to their families and communities."
Mrs. Gore threw herself into volunteerism in the mid-1980's when her youngest child was a toddler. Two of her causes grew out of conversations with her daughters.
She was driving home with the children one afternoon after they had had lunch with their father in the Senate dining room. They were just a couple of blocks from the Capitol when her girls noticed an unkempt woman on the corner talking to the air.
"Can we help her?" they asked. "Can we take her home with us?"
She and the children decided to volunteer at shelters. She went on to organize Families for the Homeless, a group that raised money and tried to bring attention to the issue.
Mrs. Gore tells the story of the homeless woman in almost every interview. "I am very proud that I decided to do something about my feelings about homeless people," she said. "Every homeless person has one problem. They don't have a home. With a Clinton-Gore Administration, you're going to have a policy that's going to address this."
At the time, her advocacy for the homeless went unnoticed, while her battle against porn rock made Tipper Gore a household name.
One day, her daughter Karenna was listening to Prince's album "Purple Rain." Mrs. Gore was shocked by the sexually explicit lyrics. She got together with other women, including her friend Susan Baker, wife of James Baker, who was Secretary of the Treasury at the time. Together they founded the Parents' Music Resource Center.
They went on talk shows and wrote articles to publicize their outrage that parents were not warned about lyrics that they believed glorified rape, suicide, sadomasochism, incest and the occult.
And they used their access to power. The wives of six House members and 10 Senators wrote to the Recording Industry Association of America, proposing a rating system that would tell consumers if records, tapes or videos contained violent or sexually explicit lyrics. The alarmed president of the association replied with alacrity. Within weeks, the association agreed to place warning labels on albums.
"Because Susan Baker and I were involved, we were able to get doors opened," Mrs. Gore said at the time. Then the women won a hearing on the issue before a Senate committee that Senator Gore served on. Mrs. Gore and Mrs. Baker testified and answered questions from the committee.
"I see this as my thing, not my husband's," Mrs. Gore said afterward. "I don't see this affecting my husband one way or another. I was an activist before I married my husband. I protested the Vietnam War and I worked for civil rights. This is not the wife of a Senator who has suddenly gone nuts."
But her actions were extraordinary for the wife of a Southern politician. She had violated the rules of invisibility and seemliness. She was at the heart of a controversy that many musicians took as an assault on rock-and-roll and freedom of expression. It put Senator Gore, who was contemplating a Presidential bid, in an uncomfortable position.
The issue played well in Tennessee, a Bible Belt state, but it turned off many of the columnists who later wrote about the Senator's Presidential candidacy. It also did not please some potential contributors.
Mrs. Gore was on her book tour when her husband decided to run for President in 1987. She cut the tour short and divided her time between the campaign trail and her children. She and her husband met with leaders of the entertainment industry in Los Angeles to discuss her campaign for record labeling. She tried to explain that she was against censorship, but the group was not convinced.
Later, Mrs. Gore said she had told the executives that she felt she had inadvertently encouraged advocates of censorship at the Senate hearing. Her husband agreed, saying the hearing "was not a good idea."
Senator Gore dropped out of the race. And in the spring of 1989, disaster struck the family. Senator Gore and his son, then 6, were at a baseball game in Baltimore. In the parking lot, Albert pulled his hand out of his father's and darted in front of a speeding car. The boy clung to life for weeks. The Gores kept vigil at his bedside. The boy recovered.
Mrs. Gore neither delved into the horror or exploited it for sympathy. Instead, she quickly moved from the personal to the safer ground of the political. "It stopped everything in its tracks, just like an explosion," she said. "We were in the hospital a month. Al never left his side, except a couple of times for votes.
"The point that I'd like to make is that my husband was able to do that because his employers were the people of Tennessee, who gave him family leave to be with his injured child. A Clinton-Gore Administration is deeply and personally committed to making sure that all Americans have the opportunity for family leave."
For all the portrayals of Mrs. Gore as the loving mother, crusading advocate and selfless volunteer, the image of her that sticks from her moment in the convention limelight is of the politician's wife who is, after all, herself a politician. As her aide signaled that the interview had to end, Mrs. Gore moved near the window so a photographer could get a better shot. Move your hand, he suggested.
And she did.

GRAPHIC: Photos: And then Tipper Gore danced: At the Democratic National Convention in New York last week, Mrs. Gore worked to broaden her image. (pg. 1); With the Clintons, above, in Arkansas: Tipper Gore once introduced Hillary Clinton as "a mother, a child advocate and a person of principle whom I deeply admire." For many, the women symbolize the struggle of homemakers and working women to come to terms with one another. (Lee Romero/The New York Times); The Gores arriving in New York, right, for the Democratic National Convention. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times); Mrs. Gore, below right, testified before a Senate committee in 1989 in her bid to persuade record companies to label music that has sexually explicit lyrics. (The Associated Press)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MUSIC; CENSORSHIP POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CENSORSHIP (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (67%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (65%); BABY BOOMERS (60%); LEGISLATION (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, TIPPER; GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); DUGGER, CELIA W HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); AL GORE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



585 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 9; Page 13; Column 4; Society Desk

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: ENGAGEMENTS;
Dione N. Green and Arthur E. Mitchell

 BODY:
Mr. and Mrs. Michael L. Green of Philadelphia have announced the engagement of a daughter, Dione Nicole Green, to Arthur Early Mitchell, a son of Mr. and Mrs. Herman M. Mitchell of Pittsburgh. An October wedding is planned.
Miss Green and her fiance are 23 years old and graduates of Howard University. She is a microbiologist at Elkins-Sinn, a pharmaceutical company in Cherry Hill, N.J. Her father is the chief probation officer in Trenton for Mercer County, N.J. Her mother, Cheryl Y. Green, is an elementary-school teacher in the Philadelphia school system. 
 Mr. Mitchell teaches biology at the Camden (N.J.) Public High School. His mother, Franzelle Mitchell, who is retired, taught home economics in the Pittsburgh School System. His father is the commander of the community relations division of the Pittsburgh Police Department.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dione N. Green and Arthur E. Mitchell (George A. Butler Jr.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CHERRY HILL TOYOTA (57%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (58%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (58%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (93%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (86%); POLICE FORCES (86%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (86%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (85%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (70%); PROBATION (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (55%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (55%); 

PERSON: GREEN, DIONE NICOLE; MITCHELL, ARTHUR EARLY MICHAEL HOWARD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



586 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 8A; Page 1; Column 6; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: BARCELONA - A VIEWERS GUIDE;
Rare Air And New Rules for Olympics

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: BARCELONA, Spain

 BODY:
AS the 25th Summer Olympics since the event's rebirth in 1896, the Barcelona Games that open Saturday triumph a new era in global sports, one virtually bereft of the quaint philosophies that once defined the Games and set them apart from almost all other forms of athletic endeavor.
Somewhere between vanishing and vanished, the notions of purity, integrity and amateurism -- sport for sport's sake -- have been muted by a new universal. 
 In these Benchmark Games of Barcelona, the first in an evolving world order that includes resurgent independent states and infant democracies, sport has become engulfed in an unabashed chase of dollars, pounds, lira, francs, marks and yen. Little else matters. Little else can afford to matter. And what a perfect metaphor for the change: Barcelona organizers have announced that the 257 gold medals to be awarded are, for the first time, the real thing, medals of gold worth about $5,000 each.
Where once the Olympic lure was the common belief that no matter which man, woman or team won, the attempt was honorable, pure and true, the Games are now wholly defined by a single concept: Money.
Money for athletes. Money for television rights. Money for sponsors.
Almost everywhere, multinational corporations like Coca-Cola, Visa, Nike, Phillips, Mars, Adidas, Mobil, Smirnoff Vodka and the Turner Broadcasting System have replaced or enhanced government programs that once supported Olympic efforts, including all those once within the Soviet sphere of influence. Some of the companies have established direct affiliations with the Olympics, at a cost of $20 million or more, so their goods can be advertised as an "official" product of the Games. Coca-Cola has paid a reported $33 million for such honored designation.
In most places, it is a blessing but in many, a necessity as well. In Russia, for example, major contributions by Adidas, Smirnoff and a Yugoslavian clothing company called Goma have kept alive programs that will probably make the Commonwealth of Independent States -- Russia and 11 other former Soviet republics -- the Games' leading medal winner. The Soviet Union was the medal leader in every Summer Olympics but one (1984) for 20 years.
More tailored programs have helped elsewhere -- like Reebok's advertising campaign with the American decathlon stars Dan O'Brien and Dave Johnson; Delta Hotels' support of the Canadian swimming team and the variety of sponsors who support cycling clubs around the world -- to the extent that some are abandoning traditionally strong professional teams that ride in the Tour de France to affiliate with Olympic teams and individual riders.
After the commonwealth -- or Unified Team, as it will known in Barcelona -- those two leading monuments to market economy, Germany and the United States, should emerge with the next highest total medals. But then watch for improvements from Japan, South Korea and even Hungary, which was always a step ahead of the other Soviet satellites in using Western-style
marketing concepts.
"We are virgins no more," Aleksandr Kozlovsky, a vice president of the Russian Olympic Committee, said proudly. "With the same system of six to seven years ago, we would be dead by now. Because of the support of these firms, we can survive."
For smaller countries, too, programs have been saved by corporate expansion, like Mobil's fueling of track and field in African nations. Though dense and disparate with 38 countries over roughly 11.7 million square miles, the African continent has emerged as the next competitive force in track.
"The new feature here is all the sponsorship involved with athletes and individual programs," said Richard Pound, a member of the International Olympic Committee from Canada who is heavily involved in Olympic marketing and television contracts. "I think what we'll see in Barcelona, for the first time, is a graphic demonstration of the need to have a rationalization of all these sports programs so they don't end up diluting each other."
But these Games are about more than sponsorships. As the echoes of the past remain only in the antiquated names of organizations like International Amateur Athletic Federation, nothing symbolizes the move toward corporate takeover more than the United States entry in the men's basketball tournament.
This Dream Team of great and monied players represents the true neo-Olympics, a gracious bow to the marketeers, agents and economic planners who see new regions and countries only as demographics to be conquered. In time, the level of play around the world might improve because of these players' inclusion, just as it did in countries like the Soviet Union, Brazil and Yugoslavia, which studied and copied American college basketball style years ago. More than ever, National Basketball Association rosters reflect the league's expanding reach, with players like Drazen Petrovic of New Jersey, from Croatia; Sarunas Marciulionis of Golden State, from Lithuania; Detlef Schrempf of Indiana, from Germany; Dikembe Mutombo of Denver, from Zaire; and Hakeem Olajuwon of Houston, from Nigeria.
But in the meantime, aesthetics may be damned in Barcelona if the recent Olympic qualifying tournament in Portland, Ore., is any indication. The Dream Team of 11 N.B.A. stars and one college player won its games by 79, 44, 60, 41, 38 and 47 points. No matter. The Word is being spread, and the Olympics is the facilitator. After this summer, how long will Toni Kukoc of Croatia be content to play on the smaller stage of the Italian basketball league when the Chicago Bulls, who drafted him in 1990, beckon?
The N.B.A. phenomenon is also important as a barometer of future marketing possibilities. As more international federations relax their eligibility requirements to include professionals and leading Olympic officials seek new ways to expand within the world economy, Games of future summers are likely to appear significantly altered. Perhaps they will be stripped of sports like team handball, field hockey and modern pentathlon, whose popularity has not generated similar global economic potentials, and be embellished with professional boxers, baseball players, cyclists, golfers, beach volleyball players and our favorite stars from the Worldwide Wrestling Federation.
Is this a logical extension?
Olympic officials received $401 million from NBC for the American television rights to the Barcelona Games. That's a record by more than 33 percent, and organizers for the Atlanta Games of 1996 have predicted they might get $1 billion from a willing American network.
For that kind of money, a network requires saleable products. That's Hulk Hogan, not Matt Ghaffari. Oh, he's a Greco-Roman wrestler from Chandler, Ariz., a potential medalist.
It's hard to say precisely when everything changed. Money has always been a natural and reasonable objective for athletes even if professionalism was an immediate disqualifier to the Games. But that only pushed business underground, creating opportunites for Western promoters to offer illegal payments and for Eastern governments to provide performance incentives unavailable to the masses, like cars and bigger apartments.
In time, shortcuts and cheating were brought to the mix in both systems, chiefly through drug use, whether institutionalized (see: East Germany) or privatized (see: Ben Johnson of Canada, Seoul, 1988). In either case, the benefactors benefitted.
Then, the earth shook. From an epicenter in Moscow three years ago, freedoms were unleashed across Europe, and walls came tumbling down. Yet as ordinary citizens were now allowed to think and ask questions, some of the answers angered them. The rewards of performance flowing from secret government supplies had been unknown to the general public in places like East Germany, Bulgaria and the Soviet Union. It wasn't as if these governments had nothing else to support. When voices were raised in protest over real and perceived corruption, governments simply shut down the supply line.
Thus, sports privatization was born in places that historically decried such bourgeois concepts.
This was barely two years ago.
Now look: Athletes and sports programs from every point on the evolving political spectrum are fighting for the same dollars. In a world economy, all athletes are competitors, no matter the sport or nation. A sprinter from Nigeria needs a pair of training shoes as much as a German kayaker.
Yet the nature of global supply-and-demand makes sense of disparities, like Japan's long-range medal potential outstripping Cuba's or the ability of one member of the United States Olympic team to earn $3.5 million a year (Michael Jordan) while another earns $12,000 (Anna Seaton, a rower). This is, indeed, the new world order and the ultimate consequence of the new world Olympics.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Jordan leads the Dream Team against the best of the rest of the basketball world. (Al Tielemans/Duomo)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SPAIN (88%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (76%); 

STATE: CATALONIA, SPAIN (92%); 

CITY: BARCELONA, SPAIN (91%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (55%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SPAIN (88%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (76%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (92%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (91%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1992) OLYMPICS (92%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TRACK & FIELD (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); CYCLING (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



587 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: Why This Recession Is Different

 BODY:
To the Editor:
To make sense of the seemingly conflicting economic statistics spewing forth in great profusion, we must ask, "Why is this recession different from almost all other recessions?" The unequivocal answer: "This is not only the usual cyclical recession, but also a structural recession." 
 The evidence is overwhelming. To reverse the excesses of the 1980's, restructuring has been going on in massive proportions at every level. It is a rare day that newspapers do not report layoffs, often in the thousands in the industrial sector.
The same pattern is duplicated at every governmental plane. As for the military, the loss of jobs has been exponential, with the worst yet to come. Personnel will be reduced from 3.2 million to 2 million over the next five years. Although this is good for the long term, it has exacerbated the recession and will continue to do so unless positive steps are taken.
Since one of the few scientific truths in economics is that two-thirds of our economy is powered by consumer spending, the growing job loss, no longer a lagging indicator, gives us a double whammy. The tax base is reduced, and Government costs rise with higher unemployment benefits. What cannot be quantified in monetary terms is the increase in broken homes, crime and misery.
Next New Year's Day will present us with yet another problem. The European Community will become the family of Europe. It will substantially hurt our ability to be competitive. Since Japan will be similarly affected, expect it to be even more aggressive in our country and in all our export markets.
The situation is more serious than the Administration would have us believe. The drop in interest rates is no solution. During the Great Depression the prime rate went to 1 percent, with no cure. When you are out of work or afraid of losing your job, you do not take on debt. Nor will entrepreneurs borrow even very cheap money unless there is a market.
There is a potential solution. Had the worst-case scenario of a two-year Iraqi war materialized, we would not have flinched if the tab was $200 billion more. Let us sell prosperity bonds, which would be used solely for affordable housing, repair of our decaying infrastructure and to upgrade our second-class educational system. Spending for defense, however necessary, is an expense. Spending for these projects is a returnable investment.
 
HERBERT BARCHOFF
New York, July 6, 1992
 
The writer is a former president of the Council of Economic Advisers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WRITERS (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); DISMISSALS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (70%); INTEREST RATES (63%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: BARCHOFF, HERBERT

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



588 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Noncandidate Perot, Specialist in Surprises

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
AT one of the early rallies in his abortive Presidential bid, Ross Perot drove photographers and camera crews crazy. The Texan finished his speech, bounded across the stage to shake the outstretched hands of some of his fervid admirers and, basking in thunderous cheers, departed, his well-known open-mouthed grin stretching across his face. Just as cameramen were capping their lenses and sound engineers turning off their boom mikes, the diminutive billionaire suddenly reappeared to grasp more hands, receive more applause and say a few more words. It seemed Mr. Perot did not know when, or how, to make his exit.
As was the case at that rally in Orlando, Fla., Mr. Perot seems determined not to go quietly into the political night. On Thursday he said he was halting his campaign because a "revitalized" Democratic Party meant that the election was sure to be decided by the House of Representatives, a prospect the Texan said would be "disruptive" to the country. 
 But a day after ringing down the curtain, Mr. Perot said on the "Larry King Live!" television show that he was contemplating leaving his name on the ballot and allowing his petition drives to proceed. His aim, he said, was to be the catalyst for a grass-roots movement that would seek to influence Senatorial and Congressional races, as well as the contest between President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton.
"Coming together they have created the most powerful force, maybe, in this country," Mr. Perot said, referring to his grass-roots supporters. "It is terribly important that that group stay together and I will help them and assist them and provide anything I can so that they can have an absolutely overwhelming impact, not only on the Presidential race, but the House and Senate races this year."
But while Mr. Perot said he wants to play midwife to this new movement, he reiterated his promise not to seek the Presidency. He said, however, that should the President or Mr. Clinton fail to address the issues of concern to his supporters, the Perot constituency should vote for him as a form of protest.
How much influence Mr. Perot's vision of a third force will have on the Presidential contest is unknown. It may very well be that the Texan's impact on the texture of the campaign will stem more from his past presence than his future role.
Perhaps more than any other player this year Mr. Perot forced the slogan "change" toward the center of the stage. It was a theme trumpeted by others, of course. But with their ties to the existing political parties, neither Patrick J. Buchanan, nor Jerry Brown, nor Paul Tsongas seemed to be able to sound that call in a way that was as energizing.
Mr. Perot also embodied the emergence of the "radical middle," the center of the political spectrum that felt its voice was being drowned out by special interests of the left and the right. When Mr. Clinton accepted his party's nomination on Thursday, he did so "in the name of all the people who do the work, pay the taxes, raise the kids and play by the rules." Close your eyes, give the voice a prairie twang, and it could easily be Mr. Perot talking.
 
Torpedoes for Bush
 Mr. Perot also may have affected the race by sending torpedoes into President Bush's listing campaign. As an ill-defined candidate Mr. Perot was a magnet for conservatives disenchanted with the President because of Mr. Bush's broken promise not to raise taxes. And it was the mudslinging last month between Mr. Perot and Republicans, just as Mr. Clinton was releasing his economic plan, that not only halted the Dallas businessman's meteoric rise in the polls, but started the Democrat's comeback.
In some ways the new role Mr. Perot envisions would allow him to try to re-enter the game on his terms. From the start it was his huge checkbook and the promise to spend $100 million on his candidacy that gave the billionaire a measure of credibility. But, despite his financial resources, his effort was falling apart. Last week it was shaken by the resignation of Edward J. Rollins, the veteran Republican strategist who was frustrated that Mr. Perot was ignoring his advice. The Dallas businessman clearly did not relish the rough and tumble of a Presidential campaign. He was stung by the partisan criticism, resented the media scrutiny and had to be pressed to speak to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People last weekend -- his only campaign appearance before an audience that contained few, if any, of his mesmerized backers. He grew furious whenever he had to meet with gay rights groups in an attempt to mollify their anger over comments he made about maintaining the ban against gay people serving in the military and not appointing homosexuals to his cabinet.
And when it came to ending his candidacy, the second act of the drama had a decidedly improvisational air, just as the first act had. When he pulled out of the race on Thursday, Mr. Perot said nothing about directing a grass-roots movement that would influence Senate and House races.
Indeed, he did not mention it when he taped an interview Friday afternoon with Barbara Walters for the ABC-TV show, "20/20." In some cities, that show aired after Larry King had already been on an hour, perhaps leaving some people to wonder if they were watching Ross Perot live on one channel and a rerun on another.
Now the question is whether anyone, beyond the hardest of his hard-core supporters, will pay Mr. Perot any heed. Mr. Perot's volunteers gathered more than 3.6 million signatures on nominating petitions in the 31 states where he is already on the ballot and the 7 states where he is awaiting certification. That is a large army and, despite accounts of a sense of betrayal, many of those who put in long hours to do the work may remain true believers.
Walter Stone, a political science professor at the University of Colorado who has studied the role of activists in Presidential campaigns, says that by and large, those who work the hardest in losing campaigns tend not to become disillusioned; rather than drop out, they generally stay involved in the political process.
But those are the zealots. It is more doubtful whether the average voters who signed petitions or told pollsters they supported Mr. Perot -- mainly so they could have an alternative in the race -- will listen to what he has to say.
Without an active campaign and solid platform, Mr. Perot's new effort will be deprived of the publicity that would enable most voters to even realize he is still on the scene. More important, most voters consider their vote for President the most important one they cast. Whether they would toss it away as part of a protest is an open question.
"I don't think this is likely to have any influence at all," said Hugh Hecklo, a professor of public affairs at George Mason University, speaking of the new Perot posture. "I think many people who supported him and his promises are tired of being jerked around."
For sure, the second act of Mr. Perot's electoral drama buoyed some of his hard-core supporters. The broader mass of voters are another matter. In the end, Mr. Perot chose not to be a gladiator in the Presidential arena. Instead he preferred to sit on the sidelines and give thumbs up or thumbs down.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Al Gore and Gov. Bill Clinton on the speaker's platform at Madison Square Garden alter Mr. Clinton's acceptance speech. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times); Ross Perot on the "Larry King Live!" show on Friday night (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Dallas volunteers reacting to Ross Perot's withdrawal from the Presidential race. (Mark Perlstein for The New York Times) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (73%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (73%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); PETITIONS (68%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; HOLMES, STEVEN A BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JERRY BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



589 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: THE BOUNCE;
Blunt Reminders That It's Not Over Until Nov. 3

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
NORMALCY seemed to reassert itself last week in one of the quirkiest election seasons in memory.
Ross Perot abruptly ended his independent campaign for the Presidency, taking with him such wild possibilities as an election thrown to the House of Representatives. Gov. Bill Clinton was formally presented with the Democratic nomination, with all the confetti, hoopla and partisan glee of the last 40 Democratic conventions. Republicans returned to traditional lines of attack, with cries of "tax and spend" and "liberal." 
 But 1992 remains a year that defies neat scripts and tidy play books. The Democrats are trying to reinvent themselves. No one is quite sure of the long-range effect of Mr. Perot's abortive candidacy. And President Bush remains a fragile incumbent presiding over an ailing economy.
There was plenty of old-time Democratic religion at Madison Square Garden last week, from the Rev. Jesse Jackson's poignant appeal for the poultry workers of the Carolinas to Senator Edward M. Kennedy's eulogy for the life and times of his brother, Robert. But the real business of this convention was ratifying the careful new politics of Mr. Clinton, his attempt to reclaim what he solicitously calls the "forgotten middle class."
 
A Moderate Image
 When Mr. Clinton took the stage at the Garden Thursday night, it marked the ascendancy of the Southern centrists who have watched their Northern brethren repeatedly run for the White House and lose, and long believed that they could do better. They used the Democratic Leadership Council, a group formed in 1985 with a heavily Southern cast of characters, as their think tank and their base for national influence. But they drew their political instincts from their own regions, where success for a Democrat depends on a strong black vote, a healthy share, if not a majority, of the whites, and the ability to project a moderate image.
Mr. Clinton and his running mate, Senator Al Gore, are emblematic of the breed. "The type of politics that Clinton and Gore are pursuing is exactly the kind of politics that wins elections for Democrats in state races in the South," said Merle Black, an expert in Southern politics at Emory University. "Successful Democrats there mix liberal positions on some issues with conservative positions on others. They isolate the Republicans with just the conservative vote, which is not enough to win."
Mr. Clinton's acceptance speech last week was an example of the art: It was steeped in the values of faith and family, hard work and personal responsibility. It was carefully calibrated to hug the center even as he nodded to the party's core constituencies.
He made the case for policies that might be considered liberal: "An America where health care is a right, not a privilege." New college loan programs. Higher taxes on those couples who make more than $200,000 a year. More opportunity for welfare recipients through training, education and child-care programs. Strong support for abortion rights.
But Mr. Clinton, implicitly and explicitly, also promised his television audience a new, more tough-minded, more moderate Democratic Party. Welfare recipients would be required to go to work. Students would pay back their college loans with national service as teachers or community workers. Poor children would be helped, but fathers who fail to pay child support would be warned to "take responsibility for your children, or we will force you to do it." The Government would be "leaner" and expand "opportunity, not bureaucracy."
The heart of Mr. Clinton's philosophy was this: "The choice we offer is not conservative or liberal, in many ways it's not even Democratic or Republican. It is different."
This is hardly the first time the Democrats have tried to redefine themselves. In 1988, Michael S. Dukakis also offered himself as the post-ideological man; in his case, a technocratic problem-solver who would be as much C. E. O. as President. "This election is not about ideology, it's about competence," he told the Democratic convention in Atlanta. The Republicans, however, turned the election into a referendum on ideology and succeeded in portraying Mr. Dukakis as a liberal and far outside the mainstream.
Republicans indicated that they were ready and eager to take up the task once again, particularly now that Mr. Perot's withdrawal has narrowed the field for a head-to-head comparison. The opening round of their definitional battle seemed clear: Was Mr. Clinton offering a new approach to Government, or simply a repackaging of Democratic orthodoxy? "They can talk about change all they want, but it just sounds like the same old stuff, because it is the same old stuff," said Mary Matalin, a strategist in the Bush campaign, which was busily accusing Mr. Clinton of being another "tax and spend" Democrat last week.
 
A 24-Point Lead
 In the short term, Mr. Clinton seemed to have pulled off a successful convention and an auspicious kickoff to the fall campaign, which he quickly took to the countryside in a nine-state bus tour. The New York Times/CBS News Poll showed the Democrat with a 24-point lead over Mr. Bush, the greatest convention bounce in half a century. "There's some extraordinary good luck in this," said Stan Greenberg, Mr. Clinton's poll taker. Mr. Perot's announcement on the day Mr. Clinton accepted his party's nomination "just gave us an entree into hearts and minds that we couldn't have had at any other time," Mr. Greenberg said.
Democrats cheered, but remembered that such bounces can be very short-lived. This year, the political world has changed so quickly, so many times, that even the pundits have grown wary of punditry. No one was quite sure of the impact of Mr. Perot's withdrawal. At first glance, it seemed to restore to the Republicans their historic advantage on the electoral map: when Mr. Bush no longer has to worry about splitting the votes of conservative whites, the deep South, Texas, Florida and the mountain West look much safer for him.
Still, much of the border South will still be competitive, some analysts said, because of the all-Southern Democratic ticket. And the West, especially California, now looks much more promising for the Democrats, with Mr. Gore's prominence on environmental issues.
Mr. Perot might have helped the Democrats in another way; he articulated the case against Mr. Bush, at a time when Mr. Clinton was struggling to recover from the primaries. And the Dallas billionaire did so in a way that transcended partisan attacks. "The Perot critique was not based on ideology, it was based on weakness of leadership, and it stuck with people," said Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic poll taker.
At week's end, it was unclear just what role Mr. Perot's army of volunteers would play, and whether the Dallas billionaire would try to hold them together as a grass-roots political force. Both Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton were struggling to fill the void. Both parties recognize that beneath the surface of a standard two-party race, the restlessness that spawned Mr. Perot remains.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (56%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (56%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; FORECASTS; ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); POULTRY (71%); RELIGION (68%); STUDENT LOANS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); TONER, ROBIN; CLINTON, BILL (GOV); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); AL GORE (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JESSE JACKSON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



590 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: Conversations/William Julius Wilson;
Responding to Urban Alarm Bells At Scholarship's Glacial Pace

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

 BODY:
IT wasn't exactly beach reading, but it quickly became a classic. In 1987, Professor William Julius Wilson of the University of Chicago published a 223-page volume called "The Truly Disadvantaged" that offered an ambitious, nuanced and plausible explanation for the deterioration of America's black ghettos. The book became a paradigm, the starting point for a subsequent explosion of research.
Now five years have passed, a city has burned, and Mr. Wilson is on the verge of issuing a sequel. For several years he has presided over a small army of Chicago researchers, surveying thousands of ghetto households in search of further insight. 
 At lunch recently at the faculty club, Mr. Wilson was, as always, the buttoned-down academic, choosing his words with precision, betraying little passion and readily admitting that he knows more about poverty's causes than its cures. Is there a conflict between the urgency of the problems he studies and the glacial pace at which academic understanding advances? "There is a tension there," he said. "I know what it's like to grow up poor. That's one of the reasons I do the work I do. But this is my way to contribute."
In his previous work, Mr. Wilson attacked conservatives who blamed ghetto poverty simply on declining values or Government programs like welfare. But he was, if anything, harder on liberals, who had emphasized only racial discrimination and the flight of jobs. Their refusal, he said, to speak candidly of the behavior problems in the ghetto -- out-of-wedlock births, crime and drugs -- had eroded the liberals' credibility and influence.
With reams of dry charts, Mr. Wilson, a sociologist, tried to build a more complex model to explain the origins of the underclass. The roots were economic, he said, planted in the loss of well-paying jobs for low-skilled workers. But the problems were watered by what he called "concentration effects" of ghetto isolation: In the wake of civil rights laws, the black middle class had fled the inner city, leaving behind few role models and rising drift, family dissolution and crime -- problems that fed upon themselves.
 
Second Thoughts
 Subsequent researchers have found many nits to pick. Some say he overstated the impact of job flight to the suburbs. Others say he put too much emphasis on unemployment when explaining the decline of black marriage rates. Now Mr. Wilson is adding his own revisions. "I'm giving more prominence to culture," he said, though he is quick to add that he still sees it as only one component of the misery, and still not the most important. "People adapt to chronic subordination in unique ways, and sometimes the adaptation is detrimental to the neighborhood, the families and the individuals themselves."
Mr. Wilson's rise to academic preeminence has been an unlikely one. His father, a Pennsylvania coal miner, died when he was 12, forcing the family into a brief stay on welfare until his mother could find a way of supporting her six children. Mr. Wilson fell under the sway of an educated aunt.
But there is nothing in his public demeanor that hints at Mr. Wilson's humble roots. Lunching on roast beef at the faculty club, he is every bit the formal academic, speaking in full and precise paragraphs that, when interrupted, he can repeat virtually verbatim.
He is especially sensitive about the word "culture," a loaded term in discussions of poverty. Though he said he is placing greater emphasis on culture than he has in the past, he insists, "I am not making a cultural argument. What I'm making is an argument that integrates cultural, racial, economic and other variables." The sensitivity over the word dates back at least to the 1965 report by Daniel Patrick Moynihan that warned of the dissolution of the black family. Many blacks and liberals denounced that report, and other discussions of ghetto culture, as a means of "blaming the victims."
Mr. Wilson's earlier plea for a more open discussion of black ghetto behavior carried great weight, coming from a leading black intellectual with political ties to the social-democratic left. For the sequel, Mr. Wilson's researchers surveyed 2,495 households and went back for more extensive interviews with 175 of them.
Ten researchers, though not Mr. Wilson himself, then spent more than a year following ghetto residents, hanging out at pool halls, restaurants or weddings. In addition, the research team interviewed 185 Chicago employers on their attitudes toward employees of various races. The results are to be published in a book next year.
As in the past, Mr. Wilson still argues that persistent ghetto poverty stems most predominantly from the decline of good jobs in places like steel mills and auto plants. But his new materials elaborate on other forces: neighborhoods, attitudes, racial prejudice, social networks and family structures.
Among the questions he addresses is why many unskilled immigrants are faring better than ghetto-born blacks. He argues first that immigrants tend to have certain "structural" advantages over ghetto blacks in seeking jobs.
 
Role of 'Culture'
 The availability of child care, he said, is one of them. Forty-four percent of the blacks his researchers interviewed lived in households with just one adult, meaning they could not take a job unless they could find child care. Only 6 percent of the immigrant families had a single adult. In addition, he said, immigrants tend to live in neighborhoods that are closer to jobs. And they tend to hear about openings from family and friends more readily than blacks who live in areas of high unemployment.
While it will no doubt irk Mr. Wilson, others are certain to re-file factors like family structure under the heading of "culture." Where culture comes in, he says, is in the attitudes that the two groups bring toward low-paid, unappealing work. Many immigrants, fleeing lands of desperate poverty, find even bad jobs a step up. By contrast, he said, many blacks -- men, in particular -- are frustrated by falling wages and sensitive to employer slights. "And the more they complain," he said, "the more they reinforce the image that they're less desirable as workers."
As a result, he argues, it is sometimes difficult for unskilled blacks to get even the dishwashing or janitorial jobs that give many immigrants their start. Thus Mr. Wilson, who is noted for arguing that racial discrimination is a declining factor in black economic life, is now reconsidering. "I would even go so far as to argue that for some black males, those with little education and few skills, race has become even more important in the past two decades," he said.
Mr. Wilson, an informal adviser to the Clinton campaign, confesses he is still groping for solutions. A recent research paper calls for job referral centers, car pools and better job training -- talk that seems tepid in Chicago's worst ghettos, where even several of his hired researchers were mugged.
He is now meeting with leaders from foundations, corporations, labor unions and community groups to chart a more ambitious prescription.
And he understands the need to hurry.
"The ghetto exploded in Los Angeles and it could explode anywhere," he said. "The situation of many of these young black males is desperate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Julius Wilson in his office in Chicago last week. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: TRULY DISADVANTAGED, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; BLACKS (IN US); SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); LIBERALISM (87%); TRENDS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); CITIES (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); FAMILY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); RACE & RACISM (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); MARRIAGE (60%); SUBURBS (60%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (50%); 

PERSON: WILSON, WILLIAM JULIUS (PROF) WILLIAM JULIUS WILSON (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



591 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Reborn to Win, the Democrats Party On

BYLINE: By The following was written by Frank Rich and Maureen Dowd, who jointly wrote a daily diary during the Democratic National Convention.

 BODY:
THE big band played "Mood Indigo." The hoi polloi squeezed into a horseshoe balcony high above the swells. A Southern belle dressed in pink moved through the crowd surrounded by swains in black tie. And not far away, a younger, blonde debutante giggled with her circle of female admirers.
The soigne party was longer on big hair and sequins than black and Hispanic faces. Limousines queued outside, ladyfingers were served on silver trays and the preferred drink was champagne in crystal flutes. 
 It could have been the annual summer dinner dance at the Houston Country Club. But in fact it was the convention-eve Texas delegation party at Manhattan's Supper Club, and the two popular women honored were Gov. Ann W. Richards and Hillary Clinton.
So it went at the first Republican Democratic National Convention.
Although the swarm of journalists, who outnumbered the 5,000 delegates 3 to 1, whined that there were no scoops, the week offered a fascinating story. It was hardly by happenstance that the Democratic ticket enjoyed the biggest post-convention bounce in polling history.
The young and expedient Bill Clinton and Al Gore took their party -- for a quarter century associated with fiery principle, raucous ideological donnybrooks and seemingly infinite diversity -- and bled out much of the passion and most of the extremes.
Gone was the exciting, unruly street theater that had helped the Democrats lose five of the last six elections. In its place was a show so bland that even the house rebel, Jerry Brown, who came to the podium to sow guilt about the homeless and to damn the privileged, was as much a well-dressed scion of a rich political family as Senator Gore.
Peggy Noonan, the Republican speechwriter who was observing the rival tribe for Newsweek, was struck by the way the Democrats seemed to be fighting their own nature. She noticed that when the enemy greeted her, they were not their usual prickly, "frisky" selves. Instead of yelling in her face about a thousand points of light, they expressed rational disagreement with her political philosophy. "They were civil," she said, a bit incredulous.
At a party for Jimmy Carter on Wednesday night, Hodding Carter 3d, a Washington journalist who was a State Department spokesman in the Carter Administration, talked about the Madison Square Garden metamorphosis from messy passion to steely Democratic Leadership Council pragmatism. He recalled a conversation he had just had with a black friend, also a high-ranking Carter official. His friend had observed with cynical approval that the meaning of this convention was that the "Democrats have finally figured out that it is, after all, a white man's country."
"We need to win over white males, but in the end the people who win are still Democrats," Hodding Carter said. "The programs will benefit women and minorities and the economically disadvantaged, even if it's only incrementally. The party's major factions finally decided that making a point wasn't as important as winning an election."
The convention did showcase more blacks, women and AIDS sufferers than ever before. The platform was steadfast on racial and women's issues, even though its tone was sanded down. And the tent did not get bigger on abortion, despite the best efforts of Pennsylvania Gov. Robert P. Casey, a staunch opponent of Government funding for abortion, to stretch it.
But it was Mr. Clinton's choreography of the traditional Democratic constituencies that made the week so telling. In a scene reminiscent of a 1950's high-school mixer, where the boys line one wall and the girls the other, the Democrats' prized female candidates got a lot of time together on stage, but it was all as an opening act for the Brookings Bubbas.
It was not lost on the women that the league of their own was shunted into Tuesday night, opposite the major leagues' All-Star game.
 
Sliding Into Arsenio
 Representative Pat Schroeder of Colorado showed up pounding her fist into a baseball mitt. Lena Guerrero, the Texas Railroad Commissioner, offered the score at the top of the seventh. And Sharon Pratt Kelly, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, complained that her 10:40 time slot was so late she might slide from the All-Star game straight into Arsenio Hall.
Unlike the last two Democratic conventions, however, when women were agitating to be represented on the ticket, gender was not a battle zone in 1992. The women, with a fresh political sophistication, agreed with Mr. Clinton that they should not come across as a noisy special interest. They played their supporting roles, with the expectation that larger parts might come their way after November.
Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton and Tipper Gore could easily have been mistaken for suburban Republican wives with their immaculately sprayed blonde pageboys, their women's teas with petits fours, and their determinedly uxorious talk of car pools, cookies and children. Asked how the two strong-willed women, both veterans of independent crusades concerning children, were getting along, Mrs. Gore smiled sweetly and said, "A mother is a mother."
The poignant AIDS speeches were also sequestered on Tuesday night, as was the Rev. Jesse Jackson. It was crucial to Governor Clinton's new vision of a party not held hostage by special interests that Mr. Jackson be isolated and tamed while the support of other black leaders was emphasized.
 
A New Covenant?
 Surveying another nearly all-white posh party at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, an unusual fete honoring Robert Strauss, the former Democratic Party chairman who is now the Ambassador to Russia, Charles Rangel spoke angrily of feeling left out of the New Covenant.
"If you can't take me publicly to the ball, I don't want to dance," said the New York Congressman.
Across the room, Vernon Jordan, a Washington lawyer and former head of the National Urban League, who has been helping Mr. Clinton minimize the few showboating black leaders who have grabbed center stage in the past, said that Mr. Rangel "was just lifting his skirt up a little," trying to get noticed.
Sometimes the new Democratic Republicanism looked convincing enough to pass for the real thing. Robert Farmer, a prominent Democratic fund-raiser, arrived with his own Hill & Knowlton press agent in tow, and the "People First" convention featured not one but two heavily guarded private cocktail clubs for high-rolling contributors.
Sounding suspiciously like George Bush and Dan Quayle at moments, Governor Clinton used his acceptance speech to stress individual responsibility over Government bailouts. He said the choice his ticket offered was neither Republican nor Democratic, and he banished the party's New Deal anthem, "Happy Days Are Here Again," from the convention finale," playing instead Fleetwood Mac's "Don't Stop Thinking About Tomorrow."
While the Democrats were doing their best to act conservative, and to hide from the press such aggressively politically correct Clinton powers as the liberal New York lawyers Harold Ickes and Susan Thomases, the Republicans had their eye on some Democratic events that could be exploited for attack ads come the fall.
Representative Barbara Boxer, a California Senatorial candidate, attended a reception for gay and lesbian journalists at the trendy Royalton Hotel, and made fun of Dan Quayle by listing some "beautiful words that end in e." To wild laughter, her list of "justice, choice and peace" was amended to include "dyke" by a loud voice in the crowd.
Jerry Brown, whose counterculture spirit was not welcome in Madison Square Garden, had to seek haven at Rolling Stone magazine to write his speech. At a party thrown by The Nation magazine in Greenwich Village, itself a red zone for this convention, Mr. Brown made a pitch for including "happiness" in the Democratic platform.
Though Senator Gore said in his acceptance speech that this election "isn't about politics" and "isn't even about winning," the message sent by the first Republican Democratic Convention was in every way the reverse.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (51%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (51%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (51%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WOMEN (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); MEN (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); STREET ART (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); PHILOSOPHY (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (64%); 

PERSON: RICH, FRANK; DOWD, MAUREEN HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (76%); AL GORE (53%); JERRY BROWN (53%); JIMMY CARTER (53%); FRANK RICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



592 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: JULY 12-18;
More Americans Are Saying, 'I Don't'

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
If the political exhortation of the week was "Let's get together," the demographic response was, "Not at the altar."
The Census Bureau released a study of marriage patterns showing that 22.6 percent of Americans 18 years of age and older have never married, up from 16.2 percent in 1970 and 20.6 percent in 1980. 
 The monthly marriage data also revealed an accelerating decline in national marriage rates, which are now about 9.3 marriages per 1,000 people, the lowest level since 1965. Historically, marriage rates have gone down in bad economic times and up in good times. But the overall rate is also influenced by the number of young adults, the group most likely to marry. As the baby boomers age, the number of young adults has been shrinking.
Arlene F. Saluter, author of the Census Bureau's report, said her study, based on the Current Population Survey, showed that while 54.2 percent of 25- to-29-year-olds had a household of their own, another 30 percent were living with parents.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Bridal Recession" shows number of marriages per 1,000 population from 1/90 to 1/92 (Source: National Center for Health Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); US CENSUS BUREAU (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MARRIAGES; RESEARCH; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MARRIAGE (93%); CENSUS (91%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); TRENDS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY SIR GEORGE YOUNG (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



593 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Restlessness Reaches Mongols In China

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
RELATIONS between the Chinese and the Mongols have been a bit strained ever since Genghis Khan slaughtered millions of Chinese in the 13th century. By one account, the Mongols considered converting all of northern China into a vast pasture; they relented when an adviser pointed out that the Chinese, if spared, could be taxed.
The tradition of mutual distrust is again bubbling to the surface in Chinese-controlled Inner Mongolia, a desert region more than twice the size of California. More and more Mongols there are reasserting their ethnic heritage, establishing links with the outside world, and even organizing underground networks to press for democracy and autonomy. 
 "This is our last chance to achieve democracy, to reassert our culture," Huhehada, a 29-year-old leader of the underground movement, said recently. "Mongols need their own culture, their own history -- recorded in their own hands. Or else they'll face the fate of American Indians or of Tibetans."
Mr. Huhehada was interviewed in exile in Ulan Bator, the capital of the neighboring independent nation of Mongolia, from which he and other Inner Mongolian dissidents are orchestrating their campaign. They say about 2,000 people, half of them living in Inner Mongolia, have joined their newly formed General Coordination Committee of Inner Mongolian Rejuvenation Movements. The group is banned within China and the dissidents fear that Beijing will now press Ulan Bator to ban it as well.
Mongolia itself abandoned one-party Communist rule in 1990, and has since seen a tremendous flowering of traditional Mongol religion and culture. Mongolian radio can be heard in Inner Mongolia, and the growing contact across the border seems to be a major reason for the surge of nationalism among China's Mongols. In addition, Beijing has just announced that it will open the entire border to trade, and that is certain to multiply links with Mongolia and perhaps the demands for change.
Inner Mongolia so far is not nearly as much of a headache for the Chinese leadership as is Tibet, where Buddhist monks and nuns regularly protest for independence and human rights. Nor is Inner Mongolia even as much of a concern as oil-rich Xinjiang, the Muslim region of northwest China where there was an abortive armed uprising in 1990. But many of the same pressures -- resentment at Chinese arrogance and immigration, yearning for self-rule and prosperity, and outrage at repression -- seem to be at work in Inner Mongolia.
"Our economy is based on colonialism," said Tsenglet, another of the Mongol leaders exiled in Ulan Bator. "Our land is rich, but the Chinese take our resources and leave us poor. We see that! And there's been pressure from immigrants. We're now a minority in our own land. Life for our people is worse than ever."
 
Resentments Grow
 The statistics do not bear that out: Ethnic Mongols in Inner Mongolia have rising incomes and improving health conditions. But living standards are not rising as fast as those of most Chinese, and resentment seems to be growing. As in Tibet, Chinese immigration to Mongolia is a particular irritant.
The Han, the main ethnic group in China, began to migrate to Inner Mongolia 200 years ago. By the time of the Communist revolution in 1949, the Han reportedly outnumbered Mongols 5 to 1. The 1990 census found a total population of 21.5 million, of whom 3.4 million were Mongols -- a ratio of 6.4 to 1. It would be even more skewed, except that the Mongols have more children than the Han, and many families of mixed heritage have reclassified themselves as Mongols to win educational benefits and other advantages available to minorities.
There are periodic reports of large anti-Government demonstrations in Inner Mongolia, but many foreign diplomats and Chinese alike are skeptical. The situation is murky in part because China normally will not let foreign journalists visit.
The Chinese Government denounces reports of unrest as lies and fabrications. But most foreigners who have visited have reported modest signs of discontent, and dissidents are forging links with the West to get out documents and information on human rights. "It's been a long-overlooked corner of China," said Robin Munro, a researcher for Asia Watch, a human rights organization that has published two reports about Inner Mongolia in the last 12 months. "Until recently, dissident activity there met the fate of being repressed in obscurity and isolation. Nobody would know about it. But there has been this link forged now with international channels of communication, so that repression in the region is reported on. When it's published outside China, it filters back in through international radio stations, the Inner Mongolian dissidents hear about it, and it basically emboldens them to continue."
As everywhere in China, dissidents face considerable risks. At least 17 people are known to be in Inner Mongolia's prisons for their political activities; the true number may be much higher.
While many of the dissidents would like to see Inner Mongolia reunite with Mongolia, they acknowledge that this would be difficult to achieve because of the preponderance of Han Chinese. Some say they would like to expel the Han, or at least relocate them, while others say they would settle for a solution short of reunification.
"In any case, the first thing we need to get is the freedom to speak out, to express our grievances," said Uringkhai N. Tumen, a 27-year-old in Ulan Bator who heads an underground cultural organization in Inner Mongolia. "At the least, we need real autonomy -- real autonomy, not what we have now."

GRAPHIC: Map of China highlighting Inner Mongolia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 000611 (SZSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (92%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); TIBET (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (99%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

COMPANY: THE INNER MONGOLIA TIME TECHNOLOGIES CO LTD (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; MONGOLIA CHINA (99%); TIBET (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (99%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) ETHNICITY (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); RELIGION (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); IMMIGRATION (68%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (64%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); POLITICS (60%); NATIVE AMERICANS (58%); DESERTS (56%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



594 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-12

ON THE EDGE IN SOMALIA 
As Somalia's economy and society break down from civil war and drought, the magnitude of the disaster staggers even the Red Cross. 1
 
RELIEF FOR MOZAMBIQUE
A pledge by warring factions not to interfere with relief convoys may allow aid workers to reach famished people in rebel-held areas of Mozambique as early as this week. 8
 
WHEN AIDS PATIENTS ARE SPURNED
Young American doctors are much more reluctant to care for AIDS patients than comparable groups of doctors in Canada and France, an international study shows. 7
 
WHY U.S. SAYS NO TO BOSNIA
Although military strategists have sketched out the possibilities, Pentagon officials say that attacking Serbian troops to rescue Sarajevo would only toughen the Serbs' resolve. 10
 
Very guarded hopes after the signing of a Bosnian truce. 10
 
NEW LABOR CHIEF IN BRITAIN
Still reeling from its defeat in April, Britain's Labor Party elected John Smith, a moderate Scottish lawyer, to succeed Neil Kinnock. 3
 
TOUGH TALK IN BRAZIL
President Collor fights accusations of corruption with a street fighter's vocabulary but a television commentator's polished style. 6
 
FUTILE DAY OF TALKS IN BAGHDAD
A United Nations official said he would remain in Baghdad another day after trying and failing to resolve a standoff over arms inspections in six hours of talks. 12
 
MISSED SIGNALS ON IRAQ ARMS
United States agencies failed to act on evidence that Iraq was paying for arms programs with agricultural loans from the Atlanta branch of the Italian-owned Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, officials say. 12
 
National 14-26

MILESTONE FOR THE DISABLED
A Federal ban on job discrimination against disabled people takes effect in a week and is widely expected to force changes in employment practices as far-reaching as those that followed the laws barring hiring bias against women and blacks. 1
 
One agency concentrates solely on placing the disabled in jobs. 24
 
G.O.P. PLANS NEW OFFENSIVE
Republican strategists are mapping a two-pronged effort to restart President Bush's re-election campaign. They hope to lift Mr. Bush's dismal approval ratings with a new push on his economic package and to blunt Governor Clinton's surge by defining him as a high-taxing, big-spending liberal who cannot be trusted with the nation's security. 1
 
Bush's thrust on the economy will rely on existing proposals. 18
 
Excited Pennsylvania crowds greeted the Clinton bus caravan. 20
 
In Pennsylvania, Clinton may face rough going on abortion. 20
 
Clinton and Carter: Striking similarities, crucial differences. 22
 
Lobbyists were much in evidence during convention week. 22
 
The NBC-PBS convention coverage may have been a watershed. 20
 
Perot met in Dallas with leaders of his grass-roots movement. 23
 
THE CRIPS-BLOODS TRUCE
To the astonishment of the police, a truce among Los Angeles street gangs appears to be holding, nearly three months after it began. Residents say there is a new quality to nights in the inner city, with fewer sounds of gunfire. 1
 
TARNISH IN THE GOLDEN STATE
California's once-flush system of public colleges and universities is facing near collapse, a result of the state's gravest budget crisis since the Depression. 14
 
SHOULD WILLIAM ANDREWS DIE?
A Utah case has brought a bitter fight over the definition of murder and the influence of racism, old Mormon teachings and new legal interpretations. 14
 
Metro 27-34

HELP WANTED: ONE PASTOR
On a recent Sunday, someone new was called to stand at the head of First Church of Christ, Congregational in Bethany, Conn. The church's 18-month search for a new pastor opened a window onto a pursuit so intimate that its result is described by experts as a matter of falling in love. 1
 
DEFEATS ON ABORTION FRONT
A year after its 46-day showdown in Wichita, Kan., the anti-abortion group Operation Rescue came to New York City hoping for a prime showcase. It left barely a mark. Coming on the heels of its defeat in Buffalo in May, the group's showing in New York revealed perhaps the end of its ability to shape the national debate over abortion. 27
 
HOUSING OFFICER SLAIN IN QUEENS
An off-duty Housing Authority police officer who had apparently helped break up a fight outside a bar in Bayside, Queens, was shot to death as he escorted people to their cars, the police said. The officer, who was shot in the head and neck, died at the scene. His friend, who was also shot, died a short time later. 27
 
Gov. Cuomo and legislative leaders reached a tentative agreement to let Suffolk County borrow the money it needs to balance its budget. 31
 
Obituaries 36
Mollie Parnis, fashion designer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BNL (MIL) (54%); BL (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: MOZAMBIQUE (94%); SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); IRAQ (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); SERBIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SCOTLAND (71%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO INVERSIONES ARGENTINAS SA (54%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO SPA (54%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOZAMBIQUE (94%); SOMALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); IRAQ (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); SERBIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SCOTLAND (71%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CIVIL WAR (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); AIDS & HIV (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (68%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); CORRUPTION (52%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (50%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MATT BLUNT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



595 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: MAJOR SHIFT LIKELY AS LAW BANS BIAS TOWARD DISABLED

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18

 BODY:
A law to ban job discrimination against disabled people takes effect in a week and is widely expected to force changes in employment practices as far-reaching as those that followed the laws that opened jobs to women and blacks.
As half a million businesses -- all those with 25 employees or more -- prepare to comply with the law, organizations representing people with disabilities are calling it their own emancipation proclamation. The law, the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, challenges the myths, attitudes and working conditions that its bipartisan authors blame for keeping many disabled adults housebound and impoverished.
 
Applying to Many Businesses
 The provisions that take effect July 26 are intended to outlaw discrimination against the 14 million working-age Americans with physical or mental impairments. In two years, the provisions will be extended to three-quarters of a million other businesses with 15 to 25 workers. 
 Although the law does not require employers to set goals for hiring or promoting the disabled, it could have much the same effect. It tells employers that in hiring, promotion and compensation they cannot discriminate against an otherwise competent worker who has a "physical or mental impairment" that "substantially limits" a major life activity, like seeing, walking, thinking or breathing.
 
Effect Hard to Gauge
 With the law still to take effect and the hiring slow everywhere because of the sluggish economy, no one ventures to guess yet how many people with disabilities will get jobs because of the law or what business will spend to accommodate them.
But few experts doubt that the impact will be widespread. "It means that Government and the private sector must take steps to assure that people with disabilities have access to the mainstream of American life," said Robert A. Katzmann, a specialist in legal and disability issues at the Brookings Institution.
Agencies specializing in placing people in jobs report more contacts with employers. Steve Weiner, placement director at Gallaudet University, a college in Washington for deaf students, reports a surge in companies visiting the campus to interview. "The act is generating a lot of possible hires," he said.
The law is an unabashed venture into social engineering and Government intervention into the private economy, normally anathema to many conservatives and business associations. But although many employers say they fear the cost of complying, others say the law will expand the pool of workers available to industry at a time when there is a shortage of workers with essential skills.
"We'll have a new sector of the work force that we can take advantage of," said Edward Potter, president of the Employment Policy Foundation, a research group financed by 200 major companies.
An example of how the law is intended to work is James Holland, 28 years old, who has been completely blind since he was 12 and works for United Parcel Service, which like some other major companies has established programs for people with disabilities. Mr. Holland has been with the company for four years and is a computer programming instructor at an office in Mahwah, N.J.
He has a voice synthesizer and a headset attached to his computer. The synthesizer reads words on his computer screen and converts the words to speech. It also reads back to him anything he types into the computer. He has another device that scans memorandums and other written documents and feeds them to the computer. U.P.S., he said, has been open to providing the tools he needs to work.
The cost of the equipment was about $11,000. "Their attitude is, 'Except for adaptive equipment, we're going to treat you like anyone else,' " he said. "I've always been thankful for that. I'm a firm believer that people's abilities come from within. You have limitations. Everyone has. You have to overcome your limitations and work with your abilities."
 
Satisfied Employer
 For what they consider a very small investment, U.P.S. officials say they have found an unusually competent programming instructor. "For us, the disabilities act does not present itself as some horrific new regulatory problem," said Fred Fernandez, the official in charge of the company's equal employment opportunity programs. "We're looking at it as an opportunity."
The disabilities act requires employers to promptly provide a "reasonable accommodation," except where it causes "undue hardship," to help the workers cope with their disabilities -- scheduling their hours to permit visits to doctors, for example, widening bathroom stalls to help people in wheelchairs or providing special tools.
The law does not ask employers to hire people who lack vital faculties for a particular job -- blind people to drive trucks, for example. But a disability alone, said Christopher Bell, a senior lawyer for the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, cannot be grounds for rejection. "It's not enough just to have something wrong," said Mr. Bell, who is blind.
Various studies show that workers with disabilities are at least as effective as others. The Du Pont Company does periodic polls of its disabled workers. The latest survey, of the supervisors of 811 disabled workers in 1990, rated the workers on a par with others in attention to safety, marginally below them in job performance and well above them in attendance. Other surveys show much less turnover among the workers, no doubt in part because it is harder for them to find other jobs.
More broadly, experts say, discrimination against people with disabilities is costly to society as a whole. Of the 14.2 million disabled people 16 to 64 years old, Mitchell P. LaPlante, director of the Disability Statistics Program at the University of California in San Francisco, says only 30 percent worked in 1989, mostly at part-time and irregular jobs, while 76 percent of people without disabilities worked, most of them in regular, full-time jobs.
 
Many Need a Lot of Help
 Mr. LaPlante says that many of the 7.9 million disabled he classifies as severely limited would need a lot of help to take jobs, like people to dress them and feed them, but that 6.3 million are more easily employable. Of that group, 58 percent had jobs, and most of the rest could have worked, he said.
He said 23 percent of the disabled adults were poor, almost three times the rate for the rest of the population.
Many survive on largely on food stamps, Medicaid and Social Security checks. Phil Gambino, a spokesman for the Social Security Administration, said 3.2 million former workers who have become totally disabled receive an average of $7,125 a year from Social Security Disability Insurance.
He said three million other adults were ineligible for the insurance because they had not worked enough to qualify. They receive an average of $4,114 in Supplemental Security Income, a form of welfare. The cost of both programs is $3.1 billion a year.
With the law still to take effect, no one knows if the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the principal enforcement agency, will be deluged with complaints from aggrieved job seekers. But Evan J. Kemp Jr., chairman of the commission, predicts the complaints of civil rights violations workers bring to the commission over the next year will increase 20 percent, or 15,000 new cases.
Joanne Frankfort, a lawyer at the Employment Law Center in San Francisco, which represents workers in occupational disputes, said: "I think we will see significant amounts of litigation. Any action taken against a qualified individual because of his disability could be a violation. And there are teeth in the law."
But advocacy groups and the commission expect many complaints to be summarily rejected because the workers will be found unqualified for the jobs they are denied and than many others will be resolved through negotiation and arbitration. Only the most extreme cases are expected to bring monetary penalties, which can be as high as $300,000.
Even then, enforcement is likely to be slow. The commission says that because of budgetary constraints, it may not be able to hire the 250 new compliance officers to investigate complaints under the act.
Some advocates of disabled people want to avoid litigation. Paul Marchand, chairman of the Consortium for Citizens with Disabilities, a lobbying group in Washington, said: "We are not out to clobber anybody. We hope it would be the last resort. It makes no sense to put business out of business."
 
Vagueness Invites Lawsuits
 But some lawsuits seem inevitable because Congress deliberately left central provisions of the law vague. What is a "reasonable accommodation" and not an "undue hardship" for a company depends largely on its resources.
Smaller businesses, especially, say they fear the cost of compliance. The $11,000 that U.P.S. has spent to accommodate Mr. Holland might be judged an undue hardship for a very small company. But Rick Douglas, executive director of the President's Committee on Employment of People With Disabilities, says the average disabled worker's accommodation costs less than $500. Some adjustments, like scheduling work around doctors' appointments or raising the desk of a worker in a wheelchair, cost nothing.
A large company might be expected to be able to employ a full-time interpreter for deaf workers, but a small company might comply by teaching a deaf worker's supervisor sign language. But many other questions are murkier. Some people are confined to their homes but can do the essential functions of a job. Will a company be required to let the employee work at home? As yet, no one knows.
Here and there, even a very small employer finds that hiring people with disabilities so desirable that Government goading is unnecessary. Two years ago, James W. Snow was opening a business, a commercial laundry in Russellville, Ark. "It was hard to find people who would start at the minimum wage," Mr. Snow said.
"So this friend of mine said, 'You know what might work? These people from the Russell Skills Center.' " There, as at hundreds of other centers in other communities, people who are retarded and have other mental disabilities learn to work and to live independently. " 'They can do the folding, the sorting and the processing of your laundry.' "
Mr. Snow said 5 of his 16 employees come from the center, which provides coaches for the workers until they learn their routines. The workers are paid the same as others without disabilities. "It all works well for me," Mr. Snow said. "I'm ecstatic. If I could do more, I would do more."

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Holland, who is blind and works as a computer programming instructor for United Parcel Service in Mahwah, N.J., exemplifies how Congress wants the Americans With Disabilities Act to work. (Eddie Hausner forThe New York Times) (pg. 24)
 
Chart: "Adaptations for the Handicapped: A Timetable"
 
Major provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
 
ACCOMMODATIONS
Properties open to the public must be made, accessible to disabled people.
Jan. 26, 1992: Existing buildings and businesses with more than 25 employees must make good-faith efforts to remove barriers to the disabled.
PUB-DATE: July 26, 1992:
Jan. 26, 1993: New buildings constructed for occupancy after this date must be accessible.
 
JOBS
Employers may not discriminate against qualified disabled individuals in hiring, advancement, compensation or training and must adapt the workplace if necessary. Those with fewer than 15 workers are exempt.
PUB-DATE: July 26, 1992:
PUB-DATE: July 26, 1994:
 
TRANSPORTATION
New buses, trains and subway cars have to be accessible to those in wheelchairs.
PUB-DATE: January 26, 1992:
PUB-DATE: July 26, 1993:
PUB-DATE: July 26, 1995:
PUB-DATE: July 26, 1996:
 
TELEPHONES
Telephone companies must provide, to the extent possible, relay services allowing hearing- or voice-impaired people to place and receive calls from ordinary telephones.
PUB-DATE: July 26, 1993:
 
Drawings (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (50%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; HANDICAPPED; DISCRIMINATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT OF 1990; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; HIRING AND PROMOTION EMPLOYMENT (93%); DISABLED PERSONS (92%); DISCRIMINATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); DISABLED ACCESS (76%); LABOR SHORTAGES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); DEAFNESS (73%); BLINDNESS (73%); DEREGULATION (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%); CONSERVATISM (63%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T ROBERT A KATZMANN (53%); ROBERT A KATZMANN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



596 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Gangs Abiding By Cease-Fire In Los Angeles

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 18

 BODY:
To the astonishment of the police, a cease-fire among the black gangs of Los Angeles appears to be holding, nearly three months after it began at the time of the riots.
Rival Crips and Bloods have been partying together and calling each other "cuz." And although some drive-by shootings have recently been reported, nervous residents say there is a new quality to nights in the inner city, with fewer sounds of gunfire and police sirens. 
 Last year 771 people were killed in Los Angeles County in confrontations among gangs of all races. But in the months since the rioting, black-on-black gang violence has fallen sharply.
 
'A Man-to-Man Thing'
 Detective Bob Jackson, a gang expert at the Los Angeles Police Department, says four people died in fighting between black gangs in May and June, down from 22 in the same period last year. In areas outside the City of Los Angeles patrolled by the County Sheriff's Department, there was one black-on-black killing in the two-month period, compared with seven in the same period last year.
"The gang truce is real," said Lamont Williams, a member of the Grape Street Watts gang as he lounged in the sun this week near the pale purple buildings of the Jordan Downs housing project. "We're always going to have conflicts, but they aren't escalating now. It's just a man-to-man thing now, not a gang thing."
But the police and some gang members warn that the truce is fragile, given the disorganized nature of the gangs and the continuing atmosphere of frustration and violence in the inner city.
"Time will tell whether or not we are dealing with a real situation where they definitely want to return to society," Detective Jackson said.
Greg Davis, a longtime gang member who goes by the street name Batman, said: "It's going to be hard to bring it all to an end. A lot of us been doing this for years and don't want it to stop. We're killing each other off, and a lot of us don't really care. A lot of these brothers thrill on this violence.
"It's hard to trust somebody you've been shooting at and killing for years," he said.
The signs of a truce are all the more extraordinary because there is no centralized structure or leadership among the county's 100,000 gang members. The "war" that has escalated among the black gangs over the past decade has involved hundreds of street rivalries among many gangs rather than any larger confrontation between those members calling themselves Crips or Bloods.
Hispanic and Asian gangs are still at war among themselves, and the police say black gang members are continuing with robberies, assaults and drug dealing.
"To be quite honest with you, we just don't know why black gangs are not killing each other," said Sgt. Wes McBride, a gang expert with the sheriff's department, noting that cease-fire efforts in the past have broken down almost immediately. "There's no precedent for us to look at. This has never happened before."
He suggested that the city's black gangs might be evolving in some unpredictable way, just as the Crips and Bloods came into being in the years after the Watts riot in 1965.
 
Fun Has Gone From Battle
 Mr. Davis, one of the last surviving founders of the Crips in 1969, said that he had taken part in brief truces in the past and that the difference now is that the killing had risen to unbearable levels.
"It used to be fun," said Mr. Davis, who is 37 years old. "All you're going to get is beat up, swole up. Tomorrow you'll do better. Now everyone's got guns. It's a one-way trip to death. Either he gets you or you get him."
Even before the recent rioting, which began April 29, talk of a cease-fire was spreading among gang members appalled at the fratricidal killings among black men. The riot, with its crescendo of violence, followed by aggressive law enforcement, appears to have given the cease-fire a push, said Mike Genelin, the gang expert for the District Attorney's office.
"What that process did was buy time for this kind of event to be more successful than it might have been," he said. "I'm surprised and very pleased that it appears to be holding."
 
Stepping Out of Shadows
 The truce has allowed some of the young men to gain a sense of identity and purpose through peacemaking and hopes of inclusion in the work force rather than through violence. Some gang members have appeared on television talk shows, and others are eager to step forward in public to express their grievances now that people seem to be paying attention.
But the police and many gang members voice doubts that a truce can last if the social causes of the violence are not addressed. Some local ministers and social agencies have begun to complain of a failure by government and business leaders to seize this opportunity to offer jobs and programs that would tempt young men from the gangs.
"There's a stew pot out there that just cooks these gangs, and they come out of that," Sergeant McBride said, adding that unemployment, drugs and the lack of opportunity contribute to the anger of the young men.
Describing the impulse to violence, Mike Evans, a former gang member, said: "It was like a fire was in me as far as doing destruction. With a lot of the young guys now, the fire is in them, too."
This fire was evident among the groups of young men pacing aimlessly one recent afternoon in the hot sun of the Jordan Downs project.
"They call me Booboo," said one of the men, Robert Lewis. "I've been living here since I was 3 years old. I'm 28 now. I haven't benefited from nothing that society gave me, except how to survive and how to die. How can you expect young men like us to function in society?"
As other men lounging nearby yelled encouragement, he continued: "From the time we come out of our mama's womb we are lacking everything. We are lacking education. We are lacking opportunities. The gang thing is something we know. It's the only thing we know, because we don't know how to work."
 
Loyalty to Their Projects
 His friend, Mr. Williams of the Grape Street Watts, said that the projects offer the young men one thing, a sense of community, and that through their gang affiliations the men return that loyalty.
"We represent where we live at: Grape Street," Mr. Williams said. "I would die for Grape Street."
At the home of Mr. Davis, the old-time Crip, is an engraved plaque with the names of 21 fellow gang members who have given their lives for their neighborhoods. "All your love ones rest in peace," it reads.
Some day, he said, his dream is to erect a sort of Vietnam wall memorial with the names of all the Crips and Bloods who have died in action, "and nobody should come up there and scratch out anybody's name."
Like the young men who died in Vietnam, Mr. Davis said: "They died for a cause. They died for their colors. They died for something they believed in, and that was Crip."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF) UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: YOUTH GANGS; BLACKS (IN US); DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS GANGS (97%); RIOTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); SHERIFFS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



597 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1646 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Republicans;
G.O.P. Plotting 2-Edged Effort To Bolster Bush

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Republican strategists are mapping out a two-pronged effort to restart President Bush's sputtering campaign in the month before their convention. They hope to raise Mr. Bush's dismal approval ratings with a new push on the economy and to blunt Gov. Bill Clinton's surge by redrawing him as a high-taxing, big-spending liberal who cannot be trusted with the nation's security.
Fearful that Mr. Clinton struck what one Bush aide called a "devastating" blow at the Democratic National Convention with his attack on Mr. Bush's leadership and vision for the country, the White House is casting about for new ideas to spur the economy. 
But with the options limited, and the Administration still mired in an old debate over how aggressive to be on economic policy, the most likely result appears to be a repackaging of existing proposals. [Page 18.]
 
Pattern Emerges
 At the same time, Mr. Bush and his representatives will be touring important battleground states in the four weeks before the Republican convention in Houston.
The pattern is already emerging. Mr. Bush, who can ill afford to worsen an already negative image among voters, is avoiding direct attacks, but his proxies are doing it for him.
In a speech in Provo, Utah, today, Mr. Bush made no mention of the Democratic candidates. He talked instead about legal reform, the line-item veto and school choice.
But he stood just a few feet away as Senator Jake Garn of Utah leveled a blistering personal attack at Mr. Clinton and his running mate, Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, whom he ridiculed as "pretty boys."
Mr. Garn denounced Mr. Clinton for enrolling in an R.O.T.C. program in 1968 to avoid the draft. Mr. Garn said he would have disagreed with Mr. Clinton, but still would have respected him, if he had openly avoided the draft by fleeing to Canada. "We don't need those kinds of politicians in either party," he said. "So let's vote for those politicians who have the courage of their convictions."
Mr. Clinton has said he dropped out of the R.O.T.C. program to make himself eligible for the draft, but he did that only after his risk of induction had declined considerably.
 
Time for Frontal Assault
 The Republicans' good-cop, bad-cop approach, which Mr. Bush used frequently in 1988 and during the 1992 primary campaigns, reflects an agreement among his strategists that the emergence of a two-man campaign, when Ross Perot dropped out on Thursday, now permits a frontal assault on Mr. Clinton.
But the withdrawal of Mr. Perot also presents Mr. Bush with major strategic problems.
In expectation of a three-way race in which victory could have been achieved with smaller percentages of votes, the President had swung sharply to the right on issues like the environment and abortion to solidify the Republican conservative base.
Mr. Bush, who has suffered from a public perception that his positions sway with the political wind, cannot afford to be seen as changing course simply because he no longer needs the right wing as badly as he did a few days ago.
Yet he must also appeal to a broader audience in a two-man race, and Mr. Clinton is clearly striking for the center with Republican themes like a strong military and "family values." In his acceptance speech on Thursday, Mr. Clinton even appropriated the tag line from Bush campaign commercials in the New Hampshire primary campaign, declaring, "Now that we have changed the world, it's time to change America."
 
Uncertainty at Top
 Clearly, simply chipping away at Mr. Clinton is not enough, and Bush aides recognize that now more than ever they must present the President as a strong leader and a problem solver. But beyond a recognition that Mr. Bush cannot afford to squander another political opportunity, the Bush campaign still seems uncertain how to proceed.
Bush aides said the White House and the campaign are still debating whether to offer new initiatives to stimulate the sluggish economy and, failing that, how aggressively to press Congress on Mr. Bush's existing economic growth package. Some officials fear any discussion of the economy would be bad for the President now, while others say he must take that risk.
But senior officials said the White House has been unable to produce new initiatives and the Republican strategy seems to rely primarily on undercutting the image that Mr. Clinton has tried to paint for himself as a man of moderate policies and an agent of change.
The outlines of the offensive are clear and they focus on the economy.
"Beyond the rhetoric, the Democrats are up to their old tricks, they want to raise your taxes," Vice President Dan Quayle declared at a news conference on Friday before embarking on a trip to Florida, Kentucky and Mississippi.
But Republican strategists recognize that Mr. Bush is extremely vulnerable on the economy, since public disapproval of his handling of economic issues is especially high.
And in this context, Mary Matalin, the Bush campaign's political director, said the Republican team would also try to portray Mr. Clinton as a political opportunist. "You cannot define yourself by being all things to all people," she said. "He's a pastel watercolor with all the hues running into each other. There are no hard edges to this guy."
 
Visiting G.O.P. Strongholds
 Bush aides said the President would be on the campaign trail one or two days a week until his convention, visiting states like Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Ohio, Illinois, Michigan, California, Missouri and Georgia.
His itinerary reads like a Who's Who of Republican constituencies. Mr. Bush met with the leaders of the Mormon Church in Salt Lake City on Friday. On Tuesday, he will visit a Roman Catholic High School in Philadelphia and a church in New Jersey, where he plans to court the votes of Catholics of Eastern European descent.
With those kinds of voters, Bush aides hope to use Mr. Clinton's support of abortion rights and his party's ties to homosexual groups against him. "When we talk about family values, part of it will be to point out that Clinton went out to California, had a fund-raiser by the biggest gay group there and bought into their agenda, which includes government preferences for gays," said a senior campaign official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Mr. Clinton did address a homosexual organization in San Francisco in May. He has not spoken of "preferences" for homosexuals in government, but has said he would not bar people from his Administration on grounds of sexual preference.
The Bush campaign will rely heavily on those sorts of social issues in the South as well, Republican officials said, as well as on law-and-order themes. The Republicans, who arrange for Mr. Bush to be photographed in the company of police officers as often as possible, say Mr. Clinton gave them an opening by showing little attention to crime in his convention speech.
 
Issue of Environment
 Recognizing that the recession has hurt Mr. Bush badly in the Midwestern Industrial Belt and that the Democrats plan to attack Mr. Bush on the environment, the Republican operation hopes to portray the Democrats as environmental extremists.
Republicans argue that the higher fuel-efficiency standards proposed by Mr. Gore will damage the automobile industry, and Mr. Bush told an audience of outdoorsmen in Utah today that he supported hunting on public lands.
"I just don't think we can go to extremes in the name of the environment, whether it's to deny hunting or fishing on these lands, or to shut down businesses," he said. He called hunting "a sound environmental practice" that thins out animal populations that otherwise would be suffer from famine and disease.
A Republican strategist said, "If they're going to trot Clinton and especially Gore up and down the West Coast as the tree-huggers in this campaign, they are going to cross-pressure themselves in the Midwest."
While Mr. Bush has his own problems with the abortion issue -- many Republicans oppose his call for a constitutional amendment banning abortion -- the Republican campaign hopes to use Mr. Clinton's support for unfettered access to abortion against him with conservative Democrats and religious groups.
And the Republicans hope to raise doubts about whether Mr. Clinton can be trusted to safeguard national security.
 
Maintaining Public Doubts
 While Mr. Bush is not likely to make the kinds of accusations personally that Mr. Garn made today, and Mr. Quayle, who also has been accused of avoiding the draft, is in no position to attack Mr. Clinton on that issue, the Republicans seem confident that they can maintain public doubts about Mr. Clinton by contrasting him with Mr. Bush.
"They talk about strong national defense, but they want to slash the defense budget," said Frederick V. Malek, Mr. Bush's campaign manager. "You contrast that with Bush's record. Here's a guy who fought in one war, who led the world community in a war against an aggressor in the Middle East, which was a crisis of unique proportions in modern presidencies and one in which he was tested under fire and performed extremely well."
The Republicans have been casting about for ways to bring foreign policy back into the political debate and are hoping that Mr. Clinton's efforts to reassure voters that he can make tough decisions in times of crisis will give them an opening to do that.
Mr. Bush's diplomatic record, and the Persian Gulf war, are likely to be central themes at the Republican convention in Houston, officials said.
The "trust" theme, as well as an effort to counter the notion that Mr. Bush has not done enough about domestic issues, are likely to emerge as a theme in the Bush campaign commercials between now and the convention. Republican officials said the commercials would be "positive" in tone and will not attack Mr. Clinton directly.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Republican campaign strategy is emerging that has President Bush avoiding direct attacks on his opponents while his proxies to do it for him. In a visit yesterday to Salt Lake City, Mr. Bush showed off a new fishing rod to officials and a group of children at Red Butte Park. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); PROVO, UT, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); PROVO, UT, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; NATIONAL SECURITY; TAXATION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); VETO (79%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (59%); MATT BLUNT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



598 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: C.I.A. Had Warned Bush Over Iraqi Farm Loans

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 18

 BODY:
The Central Intelligence Agency and other intelligence organizations warned President Bush and his aides early in November 1989 that failure to approve a pending $1 billion agricultural loan guarantee program to Iraq would create further tensions in American-Iraqi relations, according to a classified intelligence document and Administration officials.
The brief warning, included in a secret report known as a National Intelligence Estimate, also noted "possible illegal transactions" involving the United States Government loan program through the Atlanta branch of the Italian-owned Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, said Administration officials familiar with the report. 
 The Atlanta branch, which provided most of the loans under the agriculture program, was raided two months earlier by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and was under Federal investigation for a multibillion-dollar loan fraud. Until that time, the credit program was largely financed through the bank.
 
A Consensus View
 But the warning was reportedly buried in a single paragraph deep in the 25-page report and might not have caught the attention of Mr. Bush or senior policy makers who approved the credit guarantee program a few days later.
The scant attention paid to the scandal in the report, which is a consensus view from the nation's intelligence agencies, indicates that the agencies either ignored or did not pursue mounting evidence that Iraq was paying for its weapons programs with loans from the Atlanta bank. The report did not discuss such evidence, for example, or point out that the bank was under Federal investigation.
At the time, some State and Agriculture Department officials were also warning their superiors of their suspicions that some loan money guaranteed by the United States credit program might have been diverted to Iraq's weapons projects. In addition, there were a number of intelligence reports, many generated by the Pentagon, on Iraq's extensive procurement network around the world.
The intelligence report largely followed the conventional wisdom of the Bush Administration that President Saddam Hussein was a leader who could be worked with. It included a discussion of Iraq's ambitious weapons programs and complex procurement network, but concluded that he would focus on rebuilding a country ravaged by eight years of war with Iran and would not attack any of his neighbors in the next two to three years.
The report's timing was particularly crucial because it was delivered just one month after Mr. Bush signed a directive on Oct. 2 that called for the use of economic and political incentives as a way of moderating Mr. Hussein's behavior. A few days after the report was issued, the Bush Administration extended $500 million in new loan guarantees to Iraq.
Mr. Bush remained personally engaged in the policy in that period. When Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d sent a still-secret message to Foreign Minister Tariq Aziz of Iraq after a meeting they had on Oct. 6, he invoked Mr. Bush's name in responding to Mr. Aziz's charge that the United States was trying to destabilize Iraq.
"The President has asked me to say to you and through you to President Saddam Hussein in the most direct way possible that the United States is not involved in any effort to weaken or destabilize Iraq," the message said. "Having looked into the matter and discussed it with the President, I can tell you this with the highest authority. Such an action would be completely contrary to the President's policy, which is to work to strengthen the relationship between the United States and Iraq whenever possible."
The National Intelligence Estimate was the first such document on Iraq in the Bush Administration. Such reports reflect the thinking of the C.I.A. as well as the intelligence arms of the Pentagon, the State Department and other agencies and are circulated to the President, the national security adviser and the Secretaries of State and Defense, among others. Like other intelligence documents, the estimates are intended to provide raw data and analysis, not policy recommendations.
A senior Administration official familiar with intelligence matters said the report, rather than focusing on the Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, "was coming at it from a different direction -- from the standpoint of Iraqi procurement networks and the use of loans from the West."
"Although there were a lot of suspicions that the loans were being used to fund those networks," the official said, "I don't think we had a comprehensive picture of B.N.L."
 
Short-Lived Strains Predicted
 The seeming lack of concern about the unfolding bank scandal was also reflected in a secret C.I.A. document of Nov. 6, 1989, on the scandal's repercussions for both Iraq and Italy. The document, which was disclosed last week by Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, the Texas Democrat and chairman of the House Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs, stated that the Banca Nazionale scandal was likely to damage United States-Iraqi commercial relations, particularly if the credit program did not proceed. Other officials have since described the document in much fuller detail.
The document described the scandal as a passing phenomenon and a minor irritant in the relationship. Administration officials quoted it as saying, "The strain in U.S.-Iraqi political relations caused by the B.N.L. scandal will probably be short-lived, particularly if Baghdad believes additional credits will be forthcoming after the dust of the investigation settles."
Although the affair "embarrassed" the Italian Government, the document continued, it will not have a major impact on relations with Italy, in part because of Rome's appreciation of the Administration's "low key" reaction to the scandal. The conclusions are puzzling, particularly because the document also includes a section on Iraq's complex procurement networks and names a number of European-based companies involved that received financing from the bank.
"Baghdad has created complex procurement networks of holding companies in Western Europe to acquire technology for its chemical, biological, nuclear and ballistic missile development programs," the document concluded.
 
Disregard Is Asserted
 Mr. Gonzalez, seeking to prove an Administration cover-up, charged in a speech from the House floor that the C.I.A. document "indicates that several of the B.N.L.-financed front companies in the network were secretly procuring technology" for Iraq's weapons programs, but that policy makers ignored the information.
The C.I.A., which does not comment on classified matters, declined to discuss either intelligence report.
As the Administration's policy toward Iraq is stirring as a campaign issue and as the Justice Department considers whether to appoint an independent counsel to investigate allegations of criminality in the conduct of the policy, Senator David L. Boren is eager to uncover what intelligence agencies knew about the bank, the credit program and their potential involvement with Iraq's arms network.
The Oklahoma Democrat, who is chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, sent a letter to Robert M. Gates, the Director of Central Intelligence, in early June requesting a full document search of the issues by the C.I.A. and other intelligence agencies.
The C.I.A. intends to report that it did not specifically gather intelligence on the Atlanta bank or its loans to Iraq for its arms programs before the Federal Bureau of Investigation raided the bank in August 1989, Administration officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BNL (MIL) (57%); BL (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO INVERSIONES ARGENTINAS SA (57%); BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO SPA (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANCA NAZIONALE DEL LAVORO; CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (95%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SCANDALS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); TRENDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



599 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: The Economy;
Old Economic Ideas or Bold New Plan? Bush Team Is Divided.

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 17

 BODY:
With the economy the biggest threat to President Bush's re-election and little that he can do to give it a jolt, the White House plans to make a big push on an updated version of its growth package, even as the President's advisers continue to debate whether bold new proposals are also needed.
The package, which could be presented as early as next week will rely principally on the main elements of the economic plan the President outlined in January, the officials say, including tax credits for first-time home buyers, a tax allowance for investments, new types of individual retirement accounts and a renewed drive to lower the tax rate on capital gains. 
 The White House strategy is to throw Democrats in Congress on the defensive, blaming the lawmakers for the economy's anemic performance if they again reject the President's proposals. In his State of the Union Message on Jan. 28, Mr. Bush outlined a seven-point economic program, declaring March 20 as a deadline for action; Congress met the deadline to the day, but with a plan that Mr. Bush vetoed.
"Some people feel it's time to really take it to Congress for not passing the good stuff we've already proposed," said one Administration official.
 
'The Mess We're In'
 A first salvo is expected to come in the Mid-Session Review, a budget evaluation that the Office of Management and Budget will release on Friday. The review, written by Richard G. Darman, the President's budget director, is said to use tougher language than is typical for such documents.
But other officials say that significant new elements must be added to the Administration's growth plan before it will capture voters' imaginations.
"The Republican Party cannot defend the status quo, which is Latin for 'the mess we're in,' " Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Jack F. Kemp said in an interview. "It has to present a bold and imaginative and audacious agenda."
If the Administration's new push on growth relies almost exclusively on proposals Mr. Bush put forward in January, it risks being accused of having no new ideas. But if the White House were to abandon much of the January package, it would lay itself open to charges of flip-flopping and caving in to Congress.
 
Victory for Quayle
 Administration officials say some details of the ingredients and timing of the updated package remain undetermined, awaiting decisions at a senior staff meeting on Monday.
That there is a renewed push on economic growth at all appears to be a victory for Vice President Dan Quayle and Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Administration officials say.
Arguing that the economy was weaker than the President and his inner circle thought, Mr. Quayle and Mr. Boskin asserted that playing Pollyanna on the economy would hurt President Bush's re-election chances. The Administration should act more aggressively to bolster the economy, they said, even if it means confronting Congress.
"We have been right on this issue," said one senior Administration official. "We shouldn't accept blame. We should remind people that we have had a growth agenda. We're much better off reminding people that we haven't had cooperation in Congress."
 
Driven by Political Agenda
 Administration officials say the new push aims in part to counter Gov. Bill Clinton's repeated charges that the President has no economic plan. But Democrats say the Administration's offensive is designed to score political points before November far more than to pep up the economy.
"They're going to argue that the economy is so screwed up because we didn't cut the capital-gains tax," said one Democratic staff member in Congress. "That's ridiculous."
Conservatives have mixed feelings about the White House strategy. "It's wise to emphasize tax cutting," said Lawrence Kudlow, a former Reagan Administration economist who is chief economist at Bear Stearns. "However, I'm not sure it's going to resonate with the electorate. This plan is the original pale gray line. This is a group that's incapable of bold brush change."
Mr. Kudlow said he had discussed the package with Administration officials, and had urged them to do something that would fire the imagination of voters hungry for change.
Secretary Kemp agrees, and he is pushing the Administration to make bolder proposals over the next few weeks and months, especially in light of Ross Perot's announcement of noncandidacy last week.
 
Bold? Maybe. Radical? No.
 "We cannot run on 'It's Morning in America,' " Mr. Kemp said. "We've got to lay out a vision of what a Republican President and, hopefully, a Republican Congress could do to attract the voters who are caught in the middle, including those caught by Perot's dropping out."
But other Administration officials saw virtue in the absence of new measures. "I don't think we'll have any radical new measures," said one senior official. "That would look political and desperate."
The House of Representatives passed a tax plan on July 2 that included some of President Bush's January proposals, such as repealing the luxury tax and restoring some deductions to the shell-shocked real estate industry. Administration officials say their new push aims to get the Senate to act on the entire January package, in the hope that the two houses will compromise on a bill much more to the Administration's liking.
The Administration also plans to press the Senate to authorize 300 enterprise zones around the country. The House has approved designating just 50 such zones, depressed areas in which businesses would receive tax incentives for investing.
 
A Question of Timing
 The consensus among economists is that any program of economic stimulus will take at least four months to bear fruit and can do little before Election Day to lower the jobless rate, which was 7.8 percent in June.
Nonetheless, Administration officials argue that their plan, many elements of which have long been favored in the Bush circle, can make a quick difference. In a speech last week, Secretary of Labor Lynn Martin said that a $5,000 tax credit for first-time home buyers would immediately translate into 275,000 jobs for carpenters, plumbers, furniture makers and others.
The flexible I.R.A.'s in Mr. Bush's plan would allow investors to earn tax-free interest so long as they kept money in the accounts for at least seven years. Administration officials say the new I.R.A.'s would increase savings, making more money available for investment. But many economists contend that the accounts would do little to increase savings and would cost the Government billions of dollars in tax revenues.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Bush Administration's renewed push of an update of its economic package appears to be a victory for Vice President Quayle, left (The New York Times), and Michael J. Boskin, chairman of Council of Economic Advisers. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (95%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (70%); TAX REFORM (69%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992



600 of 932 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1992 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: July 19, 1992

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: THE 1992 CAMPAIGN: Pennsylvania;
Democratic Ticket Heads Into Fertile Territory

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: YORK, Pa., July 18

 BODY:
Pennsylvania, where wildly enthusiastic crowds greeted the Clinton-Gore bus caravan today, could prove fertile territory for Democrats this year.
The unemployment rate is in double digits in 20 of 67 counties. And last November, in a cry for change, Pennsylvanians sent Harris Wofford to the United States Senate, the first time they had elected a Democratic Senator in 30 years. 
 The Democrats' moderate message and focus on the middle class may also play well in this largely rural and suburban state, one that has not favored a Democratic Presidential candidate since Jimmy Carter in 1976.
But Pennsylvania is also the state whose restrictions on abortion were at the heart of the effort to overturn Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion. The Governor, Robert P. Casey, a Democrat, is strongly against abortion, and he has feuded with party leaders over their refusal to let him address the party's convention in New York.
 
No Bus Pass for Casey
 Governor Casey was nowhere to be seen on the Clinton-Gore bus tour. "First of all, I wasn't invited," he said Friday in a telephone interview, "and secondly, I am going on vacation." The Governor began his vacation today on Lake Ariel in northeastern Pennsylvania.
Mr. Casey would not say whether he would campaign for the Democratic ticket, and when pressed, he said, "I support the ticket, period, end of quote."
He noted that on Tuesday, the day convention officials had refused to let him speak, the podium went instead to Kathy Sawyer, a registered Republican from Hershey, Pa., who supports abortion rights. "It was outrageous and indefensible," Mr. Casey said.
Political analysts say the Clinton-Gore campaign could certainly use Mr. Casey's help in organizing the state, but they do not think the incident cost the campaign the support of other Democratic leaders in the state. "Eighty percent of the Pennsylvania delegation were wishing Governor Casey would get lost on the subway," said Michael L. Young, professor of politics and public affairs at Pennsylvania State University in Harrisburg.
Still, the bus tour was dogged by anti-abortion protesters. "Pro-life, Pro-family, Pro-Bush," said a sign carried by Glenn Loatman, a 34-year-old horse trainer. He was among about 100 demonstrators who gathered Friday night at the campaign's dinner stop at a steelworkers' union hall in Coatesville, a mill town about 30 miles west of Philadelphia.
The crowds, who spontaneously assembled to greet Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas and Senator Al Gore of Tennessee, held a melting pot of partisan views, but the overwhelming majority seemed to be melting into support for the Democrats. It was the national convention in Madison Square Garden that made the difference, said dozens of voters. Many of these voters also said they had previously felt shortchanged by the field of candidates.
"Before the convention I was close-minded about Clinton," said Lois Yates, 40, a Republican who owns a plumbing and heating business here with her husband, David, 40. "We were waiting to hear what Ross Perot might say, but when he never came through with any policies, we thought we had better pay attention to the other candidates."
 
Impressed by Convention
 "I voted for Bush last time, but I would be nuts to do that again," she said, asserting that Mr. Bush had no domestic policy and had failed to do anything about the recession. "What clinched it for me was the video about Clinton's life; it was an emotional thing for me."
Mr. Yates, who described himself as a "fence sitter," said he was impressed with Mr. Clinton's performance at the convention, but said he wondered "who is going to write all the checks for all of his wonderful programs?"
The national convention seemed to have spellbinding effect on many people, who repeated its slogans and themes as naturally as though they were their own ideas. "They are a young team that will take the U.S.A. into the 21st century," said Janet MacFarland, a 57-year-old secretary.
And some said the Clinton-Gore campaign appearances were an encounter with history. "My great-grandmother was a slave and she told me about the day she saw President Lincoln," said Martha Duerson, a 52-year-old secretary and mother of 11. "Now I can say to my grandchildren that I saw President Clinton before he became President."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); YORK, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (50%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (50%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (50%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA UNITED STATES (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); YORK, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; ELECTION ISSUES; ABORTION; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ABORTION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); APPEALS (69%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (68%); FACTORY WORKERS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (55%); SUPREME COURTS (54%); 

PERSON: GORE, ALBERT JR (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (GOV); HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (89%); BOB CASEY (59%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1992

 
