

1 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Advocates for people with disabilities take online stores to task for not being accessible enough.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
JUST before Christmas, when the federal government committed itself to making its Web sites fully accessible to people with disabilities, it raised an issue that has been ignored by many e-commerce sites. Namely, to what extent should Internet stores mirror their bricks-and-mortar counterparts?
 While the Americans With Disabilities Act compels physical stores to make themselves reasonably accessible to disabled people, courts have not said conclusively whether the law applies to online stores. In the meantime, many e-commerce executives say they have only recently become aware of the needs of the disabled, and have begun to address the situation in a way that will not heap even more economic stress on their companies. 
 But as e-commerce sites embark on that journey, advocates for people with disabilities say they have been essentially shut out by as many as half of all Internet stores. Furthermore, they say their patience may run thin if reforms do not proceed -- a sentiment that could translate into expensive and embarrassing lawsuits for recalcitrant Web merchants.
"When it comes to what's usable by people with visual impairments, it's not better than 50 percent, in general," said James Gashel, director of governmental affairs for the National Federation of the Blind, an advocacy group based in Baltimore.
Mr. Gashel, who is blind, said that 300,000 to 400,000 blind people commonly relied on "screen reader" software and a speech synthesizer, which turn words on the screen into a computer-generated voice. Some software can even interpret images and hyperlinks on a Web page, assuming the page is designed properly. But blind users encounter problems when Web sites fail to design pages compatible with screen readers.
For instance, instead of a screen reader's describing a given image or link, "a lot of times we'll go to a link and it'll say 'link,' or we'll go to an image, and it'll just say 'image,' " Mr. Gashel said. The problem, he said, is that the sites have not put descriptive "tags" into the code used to build those Web images or links. Such tags commonly substitute descriptive text for the images.
Meanwhile, people with impaired motor skills are thwarted by small or crowded links, which are often difficult to hit precisely with a mouse. In addition, people with hearing impairments increasingly miss audio messages that have begun to creep into e-commerce sites. In most cases, sites that use audio have not yet incorporated closed-captioning devices.
"The things that need to be done to make a site accessible are not that hard to do, but they get ignored until somebody raises a stink," said Jane Jarrow, president of Disability Access Information and Support, a consulting firm. "It'd be hard to make a case for saying that e-commerce sites are legally required under the A.D.A. to be accessible to everyone, but it's silly for them not to be."
"It just makes good business sense to be accessible, and there may come a time where it will be legally required of them," Ms. Jarrow said. "Above and beyond that, it's good p.r., since no one wants to be accused of kicking a guy in a wheelchair."
To date, America Online is the most well-known Internet company to face such a reality, having been sued by the National Federation of the Blind in late 1999. The suit was settled out of court in July, but Mr. Gashel said the federation "retained the option of initiating that suit again."
"AOL is partly usable now, and they say they're going to make it more usable," Mr. Gashel said. "We'll see if they get there."
Andrew Weinstein, an AOL spokesman, said that when the company created its latest software, version 6.0, "it was designed from the ground up to support accessibility."
"And we plan to make all AOL features and services even more accessible in the coming months," Mr. Weinstein said. "But we've taken some large and important steps."
Web design experts generally concur with Ms. Jarrow, of Disability Access, in saying that it is not hard to design a site with accessibility in mind. But making existing Web pages conform to accessibility standards is a much more vexing task. "It is a monumental job to go back and retrofit a site," said Rich Fahle, a spokesman for Borders.com, a retailer of books, music and video.
Mr. Fahle said that to retrofit a site, designers must essentially rewrite the code of tens of thousands of pages. But just as AOL is making improvements with each new version of its proprietary software and its Web site, Mr. Fahle said that Borders.com could more easily address access issues in coming redesigns. "The A.D.A. has not been on our radar until very recently. But it's in the mix now," he said.
Mr. Fahle said that Borders.com already provided "some of the things" disability advocates seek, like pages that can be translated by screen-reading devices. Like some other Web sites, Borders has built its pages that way because such an approach is useful to people without visual impairments.
People often set their Web browsers to ignore images, and thereby improve viewing speed. Because Borders.com is "planning for a completely new site architecture," Mr. Fahle said, "we can do more of those things going forward."
A rare few sites have found a technological solution to retrofitting. Take Amazon.com.Maryam Mohit, Amazon's vice president for site development, said that since 1997, the company had provided a text-only version of the site, not just for people with disabilities, but for all customers who might prefer such a design.
The company essentially built two versions of a page whenever it added information to the site, Ms. Mohit said, until it created technology to automate that process. "What a great day that was, when we rolled that out," she said. "We were so happy.
"But we're also conservative" about using design elements that incorporate Flash and Javascript technologies, which screen readers can have trouble interpreting, Ms. Mohit added, "because we want to be accessible to everyone."
On the other end of the spectrum are merchants that continue to build graphically heavy, multimedia-enabled sites, which frequently complicate or block the efforts of disabled Web users. "There are a lot of sites now that go for look over function," said Charley L. Tiggs, a Web site design consultant in Rochester. "That adds a lot of extraneous information, which makes it hard for people with visual impairments to use."
Mr. Tiggs, who is deaf, said that it was possible to design a site to be accessible to all disabled groups, but that even the e-commerce sites he had designed had not lived up to that standard. "As much as I work to make sure the site's accessible, ultimately it's the owner's site. I can take what they want and make it as accessible as possible, but if they want a feature and I can't talk them out of it, I don't have much of a choice." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Gashel, director of governmental affairs for the National Federation of the Blind, works at a computer equipped with a speaking Web browser and a Braille reader underneath the keyboard. Mr. Gashel, who is blind, surveys the Federal Reserve site. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISABLED PERSONS (92%); INTERNET RETAILING (91%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); BLINDNESS (90%); DISABLED ACCESS (89%); VISION AIDS (87%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); VOICE RECOGNITION (78%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (78%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (73%); DEAFNESS (73%); LITIGATION (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF THE BLIND (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2001 



2 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Offer for Fashionmall.com Draws Regulators' Scrutiny
Fashionmall.com, a little-known Silicon Alley online retailer, seems to have become the target of a takeover attempt that has attracted the attention of securities regulators.
 A company called Narax offered to buy Fashionmall for $3.50 a share, or $26.2 million. At the time, Fashionmall's stock was trading at $2.10. The chief executive of Fashionmall could not contact Narax and dismissed the offer. But Nasdaq halted trading of Fashionmall's stock on Thursday after it rose 22 percent, minutes after Narax issued a release that detailed its bid. The run-up in the stock has prompted interest from regulators and Nasdaq officials, people close to the matter said. Fashionmall executives said they were concerned about stock manipulation. Page C2. 

Disabled Seek Online Accessibility
Many e-commerce executives say they have only recently become aware of the needs of the disabled and have begun to address the situation in a way that will not heap even more economic stress on their companies. But advocates for people with disabilities say they have been essentially shut out of many Internet stores. "When it comes to what's usable by people with visual impairments, it's not better than 50 percent, in general," said James Gashel, director of governmental affairs for the National Federation of the Blind, an advocacy group based in Baltimore. The advocates say their patience may run thin if reforms do not proceed. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C5.

Oil Producers Call for Cutbacks
Saudi Arabia and its partners in the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council called for oil output cuts at OPEC's next meeting on Jan. 17 to shore up prices, a final communique from the council's leaders said. C2.

Job Struggle for Women in Japan
As Japan contemplates a huge labor shortage in the very near future, the society has shown greater readiness to contemplate even large-scale immigration -- long one of the country's biggest taboos -- rather than moving quickly to provide equal opportunities for Japanese women, who are still being shunted off in large part onto the secretarial track or other dead-end jobs. International, Section A.

A History of Dollars in El Salvador
El Salvador has adopted the dollar as its official currency, beginning today. But the town of Intipuca, which sends an especially large number of residents to the United States, has been driven by dollars for more than 20 years. The flow has helped the country amass significant dollar reserves. But some critics say that the search for the dollar will continue to exact costs from society. International, Section A.

Devices to Aid Those Resolutions
Just in time for those whose New Year's resolutions are to shed some pounds and get in shape, several new exercise systems have been awarded patents. They include a vacuum cleaner leg exercise device, a hand-held weight with a built-in remote control and a device that "enables a person to simulate a walking action while seated." Sabra Chartrand: Patents. C2.

Vivendi Planning a Sports Channel
Vivendi Universal plans to create a European sports channel after it sells most of its stake in Eurosport to Television Francaise 1. Vivendi is in talks to sell the stake held by its Canal Plus television unit after a change in shareholding allowed the rival TF1, France's most watched television company, to bid for the Eurosport shares it does not own. C2.

Documents Sought in Paper Fight
The company that publishes The Salt Lake Tribune is seeking to subpoena documents from its rival, The Deseret News, and obtain testimony from its executives to show the planned purchase of The Tribune by MediaNews would harm The Tribune. Last week, federal regulators cleared the way for the sale, saying it saw no antitrust conflict. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,786.85 up 151.29Nasdaq composite -- 2,470.52 down 46.5010-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.10% up 0.10The euro -- $0.9418 up 0.0166The dollar -- 114.59 yen up 1.82

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); DISABLED PERSONS (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (68%); US DOLLAR (68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (62%); LABOR SHORTAGES (62%); IMMIGRATION (61%); PATENTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FASHIONMALL.COM INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FEDERATION OF THE BLIND (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EL SALVADOR (92%); JAPAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GULF STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2001 



3 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Intipuca Journal; 
Gaining Dollars, Town Is Losing Its Folkways

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ

DATELINE: INTIPUCA, El Salvador 

 BODY:
Enrique Reyes, the local keeper of culture, says this area was first settled by Lenca Indians who were making their way through Central America. And for centuries after the Spaniards came, it was a thriving cattle and farming town blessed with fertile land and folklore.
 "Intipuca was a rich town," said Mr. Reyes, the director of the Casa de la Cultura, a cultural center he started two years ago to try to preserve the town's values and history. "The older people didn't worry, because the old ways were maintained." 
 Traditionalists like him now fret that the only indigenous rituals that survive are the Lencas' peripatetic ways. For every one of the 7,200 people who live here now, nearly two others have been lured to the United States to toil in restaurants, factories and construction sites. 
El Salvador has adopted the dollar as its official currency, beginning Jan. 1. But this town, which sends an especially large number of residents to the United States, has been driven by dollars for more than 20 years.
The results of the migration and the many dollars sent back here are evident soon after a visitor passes the huge Western Union billboard that dwarfs the fading welcome sign that reads, in English and Spanish, "Welcome to Intipuca City."
The wood-and-tin houses outside the town limits give way to sturdy, freshly painted houses with elegant wrought-iron flourishes. Along pothole-free streets paved with stones -- and named for one United States president, George Washington, and one former American ambassador -- there are pay phones on nearly every block and about as many wire transfer businesses.
Some men walk around with cellular phones, rather than the machetes of an earlier era, dangling from their belts. And the annual harvest has been long forgotten by many in favor of the monthly vigil for remittances.
The streets have the lazy, empty feel of a permanent holiday.
"It has lifted up consumerism," Mr. Reyes said. "The people are practically without anything to do, because they receive dollars."
Emigre dollars have helped prop up many poorer nations, like Haiti, where construction is booming in some areas despite a battered local economy. In El Salvador the Central Bank estimates that remittances from the United States will reach $1.6 billion this year, compared with $850 million in 1992.
The flow has helped the country amass significant dollar reserves. That will come in handy now that the dollar can freely circulate alongside the colon at a fixed rate of $1 for 8.75 colons, stabilizing interest rates and eliminating conversion fees.
But some critics of the way this town has evolved said that while money-changers may lose out, the search for the dollar will continue to exact other costs from their society. Almost every day, a few people embark on their journey northward with a visit to the Canales International Travel Agency. 
The office is decorated with posters from Washington and Houston, while a sign that reads "Show Love for Your Country" is partly obscured by a poster for TACA Airlines that proclaims "More America in Less Time."
"They go looking for the new horizon of paradise, even if it costs them being with their family," said Brigido Galea, the agency's manager. "An engineer here might make $1,000 a month, but he can go to Virginia and make $2,000 as a construction supervisor. 
"They compare it and think it's better. That's what they say at the beginning. But it's also more expensive there. Face it, we want to earn dollars but spend colons."
He has seen them return, years later, with televisions, cars and refrigerators, intent on revisiting their roots for a few months. Sometimes they stay only a week before going crazy with nothing to do at night except watch cable television in the houses their monthly checks helped build. 
They go to his agency to change their return tickets so they can leave sooner, thinking nothing of paying a fee of $75, nearly as much as a sugar worker earns in a month.
Very few have come back for good or to go into business here. Some of those who left 25 years ago have retired here, living off their pensions and savings, sometimes turning a quick dollar making loans.
"The qualities of the hard-working Salvadoran of the 1970's is being lost," said Mr. Galea, who had just finished selling a one-way ticket to Houston. "There are few people here who work in agriculture, business or construction."
Jose Hernandez is one of the few locals who came back to open a business. In the shadow of the AT&T billboard that towers over the town plaza, he runs a general store, which was doing a brisk business in prepaid phone cards for the holidays. He spent 13 years cooking and washing dishes in restaurants in the Washington area before returning to Intipuca for good in 1997.
"My wife didn't like it, especially on the cold days," he said. "So I decided to come here and put this up as a pastime."
His three children were born in the United States. Two of them just returned to the Washington area: Xavier, 15, is in high school; Jose, 19, is a busboy.
"It's worth it," Mr. Hernandez said. "Thanks to that country, there is progress."
But Mr. Reyes sees the change in the town as more of a setback. As in other Salvadoran towns, Los Angeles-style street gangs have emerged. Entertainment has become something to watch, rather than something to do. 
"They are so used to getting dollars they do not produce," he said. "Last year, a newspaper published a survey that said the majority of the dollars that come here are spent on food, clothing and education. But education is last. It's one of the least significant areas."
Some people see the changeover to the dollar as but one more step in the fading away of Salvadoran culture and sovereignty. Mr. Reyes is not so alarmed about that, but he is not taking any chances. Outside his center, a group of young people strummed guitars as part of a cultural workshop he has started with the help of a friend who works with young people in Washington.
In the last two years, he said, he has done some research on the Lencas who settled here. He wants to do more, especially involving the young people, whose schooling is cut short when they leave to work in the States.
He is also worried about the lack of community spirit and the consumerism that overtake some of the emigres. He admitted that some of them had been generous, especially the United for Itipuca Foundation, which donated new ambulances and other gifts to the town. But his center was still struggling while it waited for the government to approve its budget.
Recently Mr. Reyes decided to contact some of the restaurants that employed his countrymen in exile, hoping they would send some money.
"We wrote to the owners of restaurants over there and made a presentation to them about our work," he said. "Until now, we have not received any donations." It wouldn't be all that difficult to get the money to him. After all, on his block alone there are two wire transfer businesses. Both were closed for lunch.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A store in Intipuca, a town in El Salvador where consumerism is thriving and values are changing. (Thomas Long for The New York Times) Map of El Salvador shows the location of Intipuca: Intipuca was first settled by Indians who were passing through.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (89%); FOLKLORE (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (72%); WIRE TRANSFERS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (55%)

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EL SALVADOR (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2001 



4 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: In Year-End Report, Rehnquist Renews His Call to Raise the Salaries of Federal Judges 

BYLINE:  By IRVIN MOLOTSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 31 

 BODY:
Invoking the views of two of the framers of the Constitution, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist called on Congress today to increase the salaries of federal judges.
 Chief Justice Rehnquist issued the call in his 15th year-end report, returning to a theme invoked frequently by him and his predecessor, Warren E. Burger. This time, he made it the focus of his report. 
 "The need for increased compensation for federal judges has been raised in 13 of the last 19 year-end reports, yet during that time judicial salaries have not even kept pace with inflation," he said. "And they have been far outpaced by salaries of lawyers in the private sector." 
One of the Constitution's framers cited by Chief Justice Rehnquist was Alexander Hamilton, who wrote of judges' salaries in "The Federalist": "It will readily be understood, that the fluctuations in the value of money and in the state of society, rendered a fixed rate of compensation in the Constitution inadmissible. What might be extravagant today, might in half a century become penurious and inadequate."
The other patriot cited by Chief Justice Rehnquist was George Mason, a delegate to the Constitutional Convention from Virginia who was the leading advocate of the Bill of Rights and who ordinarily found himself in opposition to Hamilton.
Saying he was paraphrasing Mason, the chief justice said adequate compensate must be provided for judges because: "I fear that otherwise the question will not be who is most fit to be chosen, but who is most willing to serve. We cannot afford a judiciary made up primarily of the wealthy."
The current salaries for judges are $141,300 for federal district judges and $149,900 for judges on the courts of appeals. The salaries are to increase slightly on Monday because of cost-of-living adjustments.
Chief Justice Rehnquist said: "I recognize that the salaries of federal judges are higher than average salaries in many occupations, and that some may be skeptical of the need to raise the salaries of judges who already earn more than $140,000 per year.
"But in order to continue to provide the nation a capable and effective judicial system we must be able to attract and retain experienced men and women of quality and diversity to perform a demanding position in the public service. The fact is that those lawyers who are qualified to serve as federal judges have opportunities to earn far more in private law practice or business than as judges."
Chief Justice Rehnquist said it was not surprising that 54 federal district and court of appeals judges left the bench in the 1990's. "While we cannot say that these judges left because of salary concerns alone," he said, "this number compares with 41 judges during the 1980's and just 3 during the 1960's."
He added, "Many judicial law clerks, who work for federal judges for one or two years immediately after graduating from law school, leave their clerkships to work for top firms in big cities and immediately make as much as the judges for whom they clerked."
Chief Justice Rehnquist said the first thing Congress should do to redress inadequate salaries was to increase judicial salaries by 9.6 percent, and he called on President-elect George W. Bush to sign the legislation if passed by Congress.
In addition, he said that future raises should be automatic.
The chief justice's annual report came less than a month after the Supreme Court played a pivotal role in Mr. Bush's election victory over Vice President Al Gore. He referred to that briefly in his first paragraph, noting that the election "tested our constitutional system in ways it has never been tested before."
He added, "The Florida state courts, the lower federal courts and the Supreme Court of the United States became involved in a way that one hopes will seldom, if ever, be necessary in the future." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2001 



5 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Bungled Ballots in Chinatown 

 BODY:
As the nation ponders the racial inequities of its flawed electoral process, it should pay heed to some balloting glitches in New York City that have gone largely unnoticed. In Florida, the voice of inner-city African-Americans was disproportionately diluted. In New York, it was the voice of another historically disenfranchised minority, Asian-Americans. No less than in Florida, it seems, the voting rights of New Yorkers with much to gain from political representation are vulnerable to incompetence, meager resources and neglect. 
 At six voting sites in Flushing, Queens, Chinese-language ballots were translated incorrectly. The "Democratic" label was translated as "Republican" and "Republican" was rendered as "Democratic" for state races. In Chinatown in Lower Manhattan, meanwhile, officials scrambled at the last minute to replace paper ballots with flawed instructions for selecting State Supreme Court justices. The English instructions read "Vote for any THREE." The Chinese instructions said "Vote for any FIVE" in one place and "Vote for any THREE" in another. The mistakes were corrected, but not before uncorrected absentee ballots were sent out. 
 Since 1992, the federal Voting Rights Act has required bilingual ballots and translators in districts with large numbers of non-English-speaking voters. But New York's Board of Elections does not employ an in-house Chinese language proofreader to verify the instructions or the candidates' names. Clearly, better safeguards are needed.
The problems of the last election perpetuate a history of poor planning and inadequate staffing in predominantly Asian-American precincts. During school board elections in Chinatown in 1996, for instance, some precincts ran out of bilingual ballots at 8 a.m. Such lapses are especially troubling because Asian-Americans are the fastest-growing minority in New York and also among the least enfranchised. They make up nearly 10 percent of the city's population, and half the residents of Flushing, but no Asian-American has been elected to city or state office. While the citywide registration rate for eligible voters is roughly 70 percent, among Asian-Americans it is less than 30 percent.
Asian-Americans in New York voted in large numbers last year, but they remain alienated from the political and economic mainstream. A more vigilant process for ensuring that their votes are fairly counted is long overdue. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLOTS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); CITIES (78%); BOARD CHANGES (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); SCHOOL BOARDS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2001 



6 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2021 words

HEADLINE: Challenges and the Possibility Of Profits for Edison Schools 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
Edison Schools Inc. is well known in education circles for aggressively courting school districts and charter school boards for the right to manage their elementary, middle and high schools. The company has also become something of a Wall Street darling as the country's largest for-profit manager of public schools. 
 But to date, Edison has not attracted enough schools to its regimen of strict curriculum, strong discipline and frequent testing to reach the critical mass it needs to turn a profit. 
 Now Edison faces its biggest test. It was chosen last month by Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy to privatize five of New York City's worst public schools. The opportunity to gain a foothold in the country's largest school system could finally give Edison what it needs to become a financial success and a permanent fixture on the education scene. 
New York City is critical to Edison because the company's success depends largely on size, generating economies of scale in buying textbooks, computers and the like to help lower costs and generate profits. 
But the company also cannot afford many missteps. It will need continued support from Wall Street to spend millions to introduce its curriculum into each new school, to renovate or build the schools themselves, to train teachers and provide incentives to get them to work for longer hours every day and for more days in every school year.
"If we do a great job in these schools, we believe there will be more schools headed our way," said H. Christopher Whittle, the founder and chief executive of Edison Schools. "It's critical that we do something that is sustainable and replicable."
Already, Edison manages 113 schools in 45 cities serving 57,000 children, a system that in size is roughly between the metropolitan school systems of Cincinnati and Atlanta. Before opening a school, Edison typically lays out $1.5 million to train teachers and to buy textbooks, computers and other supplies for its students, the vast majority of whom are from poor and minority families.
That kind of spending requires lots of cash. But for every dollar it has taken in from school districts and charter schools, it has spent $1.36, racking up losses of $197 million since it began developing its education programs in 1992. To continue its rapid growth, it must rely on Wall Street and investors to buy its stock or lend it money.
Edison is also struggling to convince the public that its improvements are more than superficial. In schools it has operated for more than a year, Edison says its students have gained four to six percentage points per year on state and national standardized tests. But the country's second-largest teachers union disputes those results, and in its own study, found that Edison students perform no better than those in similar, traditional public schools. 
The debate over the role of profit-making companies like Edison in public education is so intense, in fact, that seemingly no point is too small to dispute -- like the number of schools that Edison manages, for instance. While Edison reports that it is operating 113 schools this year, critics point out that the company counts kindergarten through 5th grade, 6th through 8th grade and 9th through 12th grade as separate schools, even if they are housed in the same building. 
That overstates Edison's growth, detractors say. Because those 113 schools are housed in 90 buildings and employ only 88 principals, the actual number of Edison schools is far less than the company claims. Mr. Whittle dismisses that argument. "I don't know what difference it makes," he said, adding that the number of students is not subject to dispute.
Edison's selection to manage the five chronically failing New York City schools is subject to approval by the Board of Education and the parents of pupils at the schools. The schools are Middle School 246, M.S. 320 and Intermediate School 111, all in Brooklyn; Public School 66 in the Bronx; and P.S. 161 in Manhattan. 
But if all goes according to plan, when Edison opens the doors next fall, the 5,000 arriving students will find refurbished buildings laden with "tractor-trailer loads" of new books, computers and other learning materials, Mr. Whittle said. 
Teachers, fresh from a summer of training in Edison's curriculum, "will want to be there," he vowed -- not always the case in schools where as much as one-third of the faculty members depart each year.
And in the schools' hallways, "students are going to see vigorous discipline," Mr. Whittle said. "We believe in an orderly and safe environment, and we're going to work hard to achieve it." 
Inside the classroom, Edison schools offer a demanding mix of drilled instruction in English and math, using the popular Success for All reading and University of Chicago math courses; more creative studies in the sciences, both physical and social; and projects in the arts and character building.
Putting that curriculum into effect takes time, and the typical Edison school is open eight hours a day, nearly two hours longer than most New York City public schools, with the school year extending 20 more days -- a full month, by the calendar -- than the city's 180-day year.
All that plus testing -- lots of it, including monthly assessments by computer that are immediately fed to Edison headquarters in Manhattan, where student achievement levels are tracked as diligently as an accountant tracks pennies.
Computers and technology play a large part in Edison's efforts. The company gives each teacher a laptop computer and wires each classroom with at least three computers; under development is a project called EdLabs, multimedia classrooms that Edison hopes to use to deliver online programs for students and training for teachers.
Beginning in the second year of a school's operation, Edison also gives a home computer and a modem to each student above the second grade, and it offers parents several hours of training in using the computer to monitor their children's progress and communicate with teachers and the school.
All of these startup investments cost money, an average of $1.5 million per school. For its proposed New York City schools, each of which have 50 percent more students than the average Edison school, that largely upfront investment is expected to exceed $2 million.
How Edison will pay for that, as well as the continuing expenses of running its schools in New York City, will be the subject of intense negotiations between the company and the Board of Education. Under the chancellor's plan, the five troubled schools will each be given the opportunity to convert to charter schools, which will operate largely free from the Board of Education's system of regulation. 
To do so, the parents of 51 percent of the children at each school must vote by the end of February to convert to charter status; a board of trustees of the new charter school will then be allowed to contract with Edison for the coming year. (Students have the option to stay at the converted school or move to another Board of Education site; any openings are likely to be filled from applicants, perhaps by lottery.)
State law provides that charter schools receive only about $6,600 per student in state and city money; currently, the Board of Education spends upward of $10,000 per student on the schools in the privatization plan. In announcing the plan, Mr. Levy said the board would "make every effort to maintain that level of per-child funding"; he later added that the number would be the basis of negotiations. Mr. Whittle intends to hold him to the $10,000 amount. "That is the basis upon which we made our proposal," he said. "We couldn't do it at the lower level."
In addition to persuading parents and cajoling money out of the Board of Education, Edison must also reach an agreement with the United Federation of Teachers over the working conditions in its schools. Teachers now in the five schools have the option of staying in their current jobs or going elsewhere, but Edison hopes to convince those who remain to work longer hours. In return, it typically offers more money plus stock options and performance-based bonuses.
Teachers unions have generally fought such incentives, but Edison also has worked closely with some unions. In Florida, the Miami-Dade County school board recently approved a proposal for nine new charter schools to be managed by Edison in affiliation with the local chapter of the American Federation of Teachers, and in Pennsylvania, the teachers union and Edison submitted a joint proposal to run the schools in the troubled Chester-Upland School District in Delaware County. 
Benno C. Schmidt Jr., Edison's chairman, said the company would welcome performance incentives of its own in New York City -- that is, if student test scores rise by a certain amount in these five schools, Edison could be given more to manage.
In New York, the teachers union, which is also grappling with the mayor's effort to impose performance incentives, has been cautious. "Parents need to ensure that this change will work to benefit the children of these schools, rather than the shareholders of this firm," said Randi Weingarten, the union president.
Edison shareholders, as it turns out, have done very well for themselves. The company's stock price doubled in 2000, to $31.50, no mean feat in a year where the overall stock market dropped about 10 percent and the shares of many money-losing startups fell 50 percent or more.
That warm welcome on Wall Street has allowed Edison to raise a lot of money: $109 million in its initial public offering of stock in November 1999 and another $76 million last August; previously, the company had raised roughly $200 million in private stock sales.
Much of that money has gone to pay for Edison's losses, which, although generally declining, are still large: $36 million in the year ended June 30, on revenues of $224 million. Financial analysts expect losses to grow this year before falling in each of the next two fiscal years. Not until the year ending June 2004 is Edison expected to record annual net profits.
Mr. Whittle contends that those are not the most important numbers, however. By his measure, Edison's schools will begin to take in more cash than they use later this year, thereby contributing money back to Edison's headquarters to cover overhead costs like curriculum development and central purchasing. 
That yardstick, embraced by the Wall Street analysts who follow the company, excludes some seemingly relevant figures, however -- like the cost of textbooks, licensing fees for curriculum and the cost of computers and the wiring of schools, which Edison considers "central" rather than "school-based" expenses.
"We would not be seeing the stock performance we've been seeing unless Wall Street fully understood" the difference between those two sets of numbers, Mr. Whittle said. "I think the trend lines are pretty compelling."
But Mr. Whittle also knows he must paint a compelling picture for Wall Street because Edison will need more money to continue its current pace of growth. In about a dozen of its schools so far, Edison has also relied on philanthropic contributions to get its program up and running. Not only does Edison spend lots of money upfront to outfit new schools, but it also has lent millions of dollars to charter schools to help them secure and improve buildings for their schools, often with no interest charges and with little to no collateral against the loans. Those loans, which are expected to total $80 million by the end of this school year, could cause the company serious financial trouble if they are not repaid.
It is not unusual for a relatively young company like Edison to court controversy on Wall Street, and few reform measures pass through the education industry without rigorous debate. Add to that the logistical issues raised by instituting such a program in New York City, and Edison acknowledges that it has a tough road ahead.
"New York is not the easiest place for something like this to take root," Mr. Schmidt said. "But we feel we have the experience necessary to improve these schools."

GRAPHIC: Photo: H. Christopher Whittle, the chief executive of Edison Schools Inc. (Steve Berman/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); CURRICULA (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL PRIVATIZATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); TEACHER EDUCATION (89%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (73%); FAMILY (72%); TEACHER UNIONS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EDISONLEARNING INC (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611110 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (96%); SIC8211 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (96%) SIC8211 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2001 



7 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA: New Risks and Venues Emerge in a Multifaceted Business; 
It Looks Like Deja Vu All Over Again at WPP

BYLINE:  By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The WPP Group has 4.7 billion reasons to hope the slowdown of the American economy is a soft landing rather than a hard one.
 WPP spent $4.7 billion in 2000 to become the world's largest agency company, by acquiring Young & Rubicam, parent of blue-chip Madison Avenue names like Young & Rubicam Advertising, Burson-Marsteller and Landor Associates. 
The acquisition -- the largest in Madison Avenue history -- vaulted WPP, owner of agencies like Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and J. Walter Thompson, into first place in revenue and billings. 
 Scant weeks after the acquisition was completed in October, signs began emerging of a weakening in consumer spending. Forecasters are predicting there will be growth in 2001, but at a rate about half the gains of 2000.
The fear is that history might be repeating itself. In 1989, WPP acquired Ogilvy after a bitter takeover battle, piling on debt to do so. The recession that started the next year wounded WPP deeply. And when conditions improved, WPP recovered more slowly than most of its rivals.
WPP executives, led by Sir Martin Sorrell, have made it clear they intend to be proactive rather than reactive. There are sustained efforts to improve profit margins at Young & Rubicam; cost-savings measures so far include the elimination of 100 jobs in New York. And top executives at operating units like the Impiric direct marketing agency are being replaced if WPP believes results have been lagging.
"Having been through one downturn, he's learned how to handle that," Alan J. Gottesman, who follows the industry for West End Communications/Consulting, said of Mr. Sorrell. "And he's taken some of the risk out." STUART ELLIOTT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); RECESSION (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TAKEOVERS (72%); DIRECT MARKETING (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WPP PLC (92%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); JWT (71%); LANDOR ASSOCIATES (57%); BURSON-MARSTELLER (57%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (92%); WPP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2001 



8 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: New Debates for a New Year 

 BODY:
New Year's Day is the traditional time for gazing, Janus-like, both forward and backward. After the great millennial celebrations of last year, the first months of 2000 had a celebratory feel. But for Americans, the election season at year's end saw the aura of continual celebration replaced with a pervading sense of uncertainty and conflict. Coming out of that political whirligig into the first peaceful hours of 2001, we have now tipped over into the rest of history in a way that no one could have predicted. Seeing a new administration go through the rituals of cabinet appointments and inauguration planning has brought, as it ought to, a calming sense of reassurance. Yet when work resumes tomorrow, in Washington and in all branches of the nation's vast economy, no one should doubt that this particular new year could be the threshold of a new era of contention over protecting the security of the nation, shaping the daily lives of the citizens and guarding the very land upon which we live. 
 There is every indication that George W. Bush intends to be a forceful president, and we think he has shown a cool detachment about the satirical predictions that he will be a captive of his advisers. There is an imposing history of presidents' developing an embracing vision of their duties to all segments of American society once they have settled in. We hope that is the case with Mr. Bush. We hope as well that the Democrats in Congress, as well as the public at large, give this new leader a chance to show that his compassionate conservatism has dimensions of social and economic justice. 
 Yet the magnitude of the issues that will come into renewed play as of Jan. 20 means that the concept of the presidential honeymoon will need to be carefully defined. This leadership team deserves time to define an agenda, but Mr. Bush and his cabinet must be aware that most Democrats in Congress and the millions of Americans who gave Vice President Al Gore a 500,000 edge in the popular vote have made a powerful statement about the compass headings of American government. His cabinet is commendably diverse with regard to race and gender, but since the top policy posts have been doled out, it will not be bipartisan in any real sense. Moreover, those encouraged by Mr. Bush to expect a moderately conservative cabinet are now confronted with a team that features several key players chosen to reassure the ideological and corporate wings of conservative Republicanism.
For the millions of Americans who do not share the rigid views of those two G.O.P. power centers, the dawn of 2001 has to be a time of watchful waiting. Nowhere is this more true than on the issues of abortion rights and the environment. There is genuine alarm that the selections of Senator John Ashcroft as attorney general and Gale Norton as interior secretary signal a desire by the president-elect to re-engage the battles of 1980. But today the majority of Americans favor women's right to choose without government interference and, of equal importance, without being denied welfare and other benefits if they exercise that right. As for the environment, a renewed attempt to reduce wilderness areas in the West and Alaska or to relax the laws on oil and mineral exploration would represent a profound misreading of the national mind-set on protecting our land, water and air. 
On foreign and defense policy, the early signals look less divisive. No one doubts the expertise of a team that comprises Dick Cheney, Colin Powell, Donald Rumsfeld and Condoleezza Rice. But there is no way to read the 2000 election as a mandate for a headlong rush to an antimissile defense system. The American people do desire a system that protects against attacks from terrorists or renegade regimes. But the development process needs to be scientifically and economically sound and carried out in coordination with a modernization of conventional forces and the preservation of arms control agreements.
One thing that we hope will be apparent to Mr. Bush once he settles in is that the very first months of 2001 will offer him a chance to write his name into the history books with record speed as a political reformer of the first rank. Voter engagement is at the highest point in decades. The nation is ready for a national ballot-reform initiative and for campaign-finance reform. Few new presidents have had such a clear chance to take their counsel from the people rather than from Washington's old guard.
Last night's celebrations were mild in comparison with those of a year ago. On this first day of 2001, the year 2000 seems to have passed with blinding speed. Now the time-honored ritual of an old president retiring and a new one settling in will be upon us in a matter of days. The Republic is steady. A new drama of invention starring Mr. Bush is beginning to unfold. The issues of security, prosperity, justice and public welfare have seldom been more clearly drawn, and the suspense as to the policy outcomes has seldom been greater. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); MILLENNIUM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); LAWYERS (63%); ABORTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); AL GORE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2001 



9 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3780 words

HEADLINE: EQUAL FOOTING/A special report.; 
9 MILLION GAINING UPGRADED BENEFIT FOR MENTAL CARE

BYLINE:  By ERICA GOODE

 BODY:
Acting on an executive order issued by President Clinton, the federal government will begin today to offer its nine million employees improved mental health benefits equal to those for physical ailments.
 Federal officials' embrace of equal insurance protection for mental and physical ills represents a significant victory for mental health advocates, who have argued for more than a decade that the widespread practice of providing far less coverage for mental disorders is discriminatory. 
 The new policy also offers further evidence that the notion of equality in coverage is gaining wider acceptance. Thirty-two states now have laws that in some way address such insurance disparities, and many large corporations provide equal coverage for their employees, believing that doing so saves money in the long run. 
The notion of equal coverage, referred to as parity, was also endorsed by Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush during their presidential campaigns. 
"There has been definite progress," said Jennifer Heffron, senior director of state affairs for the National Mental Health Association, a nonprofit group.
Yet Ms. Heffron, echoing the concerns of other mental health groups, said that despite such advances, true equal coverage, in its fullest sense, remained elusive. She said that many state laws included so many restrictions that they had little impact, and that in some cases, insurance companies had simply found other, more subtle ways to limit coverage for mental illness.
Dr. Richard Frank, a professor of health economics at Harvard University, said: "Parity is very much symbolic, and somewhat real. But it does not fix as many problems, when it winds up on the ground, as most people thought it would."
In offering equal coverage, federal officials hope to provide a model for employers around the country. The initiative is also likely to be monitored closely by Congress, which will probably take up the parity issue in its next session.
Under guidelines developed by the federal Office of Personnel Management, private health plans for federal employees will no longer impose higher co-payments or deductibles for mental health services, or set limits on outpatient visits or hospital days for mental disorders that are lower than those applied to general medical or surgical care.
Treatment for alcohol and drug abuse will also be covered equally under the new policy.
Even a decade ago, equal coverage for mental illness seemed more a pipe dream than a practical possibility. Opponents, including the insurance industry and business groups, warned that without limits on mental health coverage, the "worried well" would spend endless years on the couch and health care costs would spin out of control, forcing many employers to forgo health insurance altogether.
Yet over the last 10 years, much has changed. 
Increased understanding of the biological underpinnings of many mental disorders and the advent of new and better treatments have led to a greater acceptance of the idea that conditions like manic depression and schizophrenia are illnesses like any other.
The cost-control strategies of managed care, still in their infancy in 1990, are now in widespread use.
And on Capitol Hill, lobbying by mental health groups -- combined with the testimonials of celebrities like Tipper Gore, who last year revealed her own struggle with depression -- has garnered unprecedented attention and bipartisan support for psychiatric issues.
Opposition to parity still survives. In Michigan, New York and other states, for example, repeated efforts to pass parity bills have been unsuccessful.
The 1996 Federal Mental Health Parity Act, banning dollar limits on mental health care that differ from those for general medical care, lacks the regulatory teeth to have much real effect. But the symbolic impact has led many state legislatures to address the issue.
And four states -- Maryland, Minnesota, Connecticut and Vermont -- have statutes that not only eliminate inequalities in reimbursements but also require employers to cover mental health, define mental illness broadly, include drug and alcohol addiction, and require small employers to comply. 
Still, health care experts say that the reality of parity, as translated by lawmakers and insurance companies, often bears little resemblance to the ideal envisioned by advocates.
Some state statutes, for example, contain so many loopholes that thousands of employees are not covered. Others limit coverage to specific illnesses. And even where parity legislation is broadest, some critics say, managed care has undercut the goal of equality, leaving some patients worse off than they were before.
"On its face, parity is a simple issue," Ms. Heffron of the National Mental Health Association said. "But the clarity dilutes very quickly."

A Question of Cost
For its champions, parity is about fairness. Without it, they argue, parents take out second mortgages to pay for the care of a child with severe mental illness, and professionals like Kathryn Lynnes, a lawyer and environmental consultant, end up devoting much of their salaries to simply staying well.
Ms. Lynnes, 43, has manic depression, a chronic illness rooted in genetics and brain chemistry that, if untreated, bounces her from suicidal depression to frenzied mania. Medication and psychotherapy have given her back her life. 
"With treatment, I pay taxes and I own a home and I live a normal life," Ms. Lynnes said. "Without it, I probably wouldn't even be here."
But Ms. Lynnes lives in Grand Rapids, Mich., and Michigan is a state without a parity law.
So she pays 50 percent of the $175 fee for each 45-minute visit with her psychiatrist, instead of the 20 percent she would pay for a trip to her internist's office. She works for a small business and her mental health coverage is limited to $2,000 a year and $5,000 for her lifetime, in contrast to the $5 million limit applied to general medical care. To make things worse, she is still paying off the last of the $70,000 she owed to two hospitals after a particularly severe episode of illness five years ago. 
Yet if parity begins as an issue of unequal costs for some, it quickly becomes a debate about increased costs shared by all. And parity's opponents, who include the Health Insurance Association of America and the Chamber of Commerce, have traditionally argued that equal coverage is simply too expensive.
Early critics based their assessments on data collected in the 1980's, when costs for mental health treatment -- primarily in-hospital care -- were climbing steadily, eating up as much as 10 percent of employers' total health care budgets.
Borrowing a term from economists, insurers warned that unlimited mental health benefits posed a "moral hazard" to employers and insurers. If such benefits were offered, the argument went, they would be exploited and overused -- simply because they were there.
Insurers also worried about "adverse selection": people who knew they needed psychiatric treatment, they argued, would flock to plans offering good coverage.
Ms. Lynnes encountered this logic firsthand, when she and her boss sought out a health plan that could give them better mental health benefits in exchange for higher premiums. Concerned about being singled out, insurance companies simply did not offer such benefits.
"We looked and there really wasn't anything out there that had the coverage," she said.

The Picture Changes
A decade ago, fears about the cost of parity were difficult to dismiss. But today those fears have proved to be largely groundless in states that have equal-coverage laws.
The reason, experts say, is the widespread influence of managed care. In every case, the equalization of mental health benefits has come hand in hand with tightened management.
Vermont's statute, for example, specifically provides insurance companies with the option of bringing in managed care for mental health treatment, even if benefits for physical health care are not similarly managed.
"No place has or ever will implement parity without an increase in the managed care element," said Dr. Darrel A. Regier, an expert on parity and the executive director of the American Psychiatric Association's Institute for Research and Education.
As a result, most insurance companies have been able to meet the requirements of parity laws while keeping cost increases at a minimum. In a comprehensive analysis of the impact of parity submitted to Congress in June, the National Mental Health Advisory Council, a panel that advises the National Institute of Mental Health and the secretary of health and human services on mental health issues, found that on average, parity increased total health insurance premiums by 1.4 percent -- far less than the 10 or even 15 percent predicted by critics. Other analyses have yielded similar numbers.
Ronald E. Bachman, an actuary at PricewaterhouseCoopers who has analyzed expected costs for more than 30 states considering parity legislation, said he believed that providing parity for both mental illness and substance abuse raised total health care costs on average 2.5 to 3.5 percent. Parity for mental illness alone raises premiums 2 to 3 percent, Mr. Bachman said. And if anything, he said, his estimates are high.
"How many examples do you need to show that mental health does not break the bank?" Mr. Bachman asked.
Insurers who will offer equal coverage to federal employees under the new guidelines also said they expected the costs of increased coverage to be manageable.
"If it's effectively managed, we think we can bring this in at a reasonable cost," said Stephen W. Gammarino, a senior vice president for Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association's federal employee program, which covers four million employees. Mr. Gammarino said his company estimated that increased mental health coverage would add about 2 percent to premiums.
One reason parity has proved to be economical, Dr. Regier and other health care experts say, is that managed care has greatly reduced hospital stays, especially the long hospitalizations common for adolescents 10 years ago. But Dr. Regier added that in some cases, the quality of care may have suffered and overall access to benefits may have grown more limited as a result of managed care. Under many managed care plans for mental health, patients must choose from an approved list of practitioners or forfeit equal coverage, and must seek authorization before receiving treatment and at regular intervals thereafter.
Parity may also bring indirect savings. Studies have found that access to mental health services can offset general medical costs, decrease absenteeism, reduce the psychiatric disability claims made by employees and offset court and prison costs.
The Chevron Corporation, for example, found that it saved $7 for every dollar it spent on an employee assistance program offering mental health resources, according to a 1997 report. And researchers at Johns Hopkins University found that insurance plans with the highest financial barriers to mental health treatment experienced a greater number of disability claims related to mental illness.
Yet many opponents of parity remain unconvinced by such statistics.
The Health Insurance Association of America, for example, argues that even small premium increases add up, forcing some employers to drop their insurance. "Mandates add cost," said Richard Coorsh, a spokesman for the association.
In Michigan, where businesses and big labor unions are united in opposing insurance mandates, a package of five parity bills was introduced in the state House of Representatives in 1998, but never made it out of committee.
Larry Horwitz, the president of the Economic Alliance of Michigan, a lobbying group that represents both business associations and labor groups like the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said his members objected to parity not only because of the cost, but also because they believed it would infringe on freedom of choice -- for example, by limiting what benefits labor unions can trade off at the bargaining table. 
"I should be able to make my own judgments on what I want covered, and it should not be imposed upon me by state regulators," Mr. Horwitz said.

State Laws and Their Limits
Concerns about cost and government intrusion may have kept parity statutes off the books in many states, but they have also shaped the laws that do exist.
The 1996 federal parity law, for example, does not require employers to provide mental health coverage. Small businesses, and those where costs would increase more than 1 percent as a result of equal coverage, are exempt. And the law says nothing about unequal co-payments or deductibles.
Many state statutes also exempt small businesses or those in which costs would increase beyond a set percentage.
And 19 states restrict parity to a narrow list of mental illnesses.
In Texas, for example, a 1997 law signed by Gov. George W. Bush provides equal coverage only for schizophrenia, paranoia and other psychotic disorders, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder and depression in childhood and adolescence. It does not cover drug or alcohol addiction.
Rhode Island's 1994 statute restricts parity to "serious mental illness" that "current medical science affirms is caused by a biological disorder of the brain and substantially limits life activities."
When states limit coverage to certain illnesses, children are often left out, Ms. Heffron said. "The laws usually focus on severe mental illnesses which don't manifest themselves until late adolescence," she said.
Reducing the impact of state statutes even further, companies that self-insure are exempt under the federal Employment Retirement Income Security Act, or Erisa, from state insurance laws, an exception that in some states leaves 80 percent of employers beyond parity's reach.
Noncompliance by employers is another problem.
A Congressional report released last May found that thousands of businesses were violating the federal law. Of employers in 26 states surveyed by the General Accounting Office, 14 percent -- or between 9,000 and 13,000 employers -- continued to set lower lifetime dollar limits for mental health treatment. Thousands more merely substituted limits on covered days of hospital care or visits to a mental health professional for dollar limits.
Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, who co-wrote the 1996 law with Senator Paul Wellstone, Democrat of Minnesota, said he hoped to persuade Congress to close some loopholes and expand the legislation when it comes up for reauthorization next September.
A strengthened bill, he suggested, might require equal co-payments for mental and physical illness, and prevent companies from setting day and visit limits on care. But it almost certainly will stop short of requiring employers to carry coverage for mental illness, or removing the exemption for small employers.
"I'm not going to say that's real parity," Senator Domenici said.

The Risks of Managed Care
The senator from New Mexico would get no argument from Dr. Ken Libertoff, who, as executive director of the Vermont Association for Mental Health, led the campaign for a state parity law so comprehensive it would offer a model for the rest of the country.
"Partial parity laws mean a continuation of strong discriminatory practices," Dr. Libertoff said.
Yet when parity is broad-based, as it is in Vermont, he said, it can have a profound impact.
"I think the bill is working, and it's working on several levels," Dr. Libertoff said. "No. 1, companies are complying. And No. 2, the major argument used against parity over the last decade has been the cost factor, and the initial findings from Vermont are very positive."
In fact, Vermont's statute has made a good first impression on patients like Anne Donahue, who in 1993 plunged into a serious depression and, after five hospitalizations, was left with $17,000 in unpaid hospital bills.
Like most health insurance plans at the time, Ms. Donahue's policy treated mental illness differently than it treated other medical conditions. With her fourth hospitalization, she exceeded the plan's 30-day yearly maximum on the number of days in the hospital it would cover, and her insurance company refused to pay.
"I had never even dreamed that there were distinctions," said Ms. Donahue, who has a law degree from Georgetown University and was teaching high school science and religion at the time of her illness. "You don't think 'Is heart disease covered?' when you have a heart attack."
Ms. Donahue told her story to lawmakers in Montpelier, and joined those who in 1997 campaigned for passage of a state parity bill. Now that the law has passed, she said, she no longer fears that another severe episode of depression, an illness that often recurs, might push her into bankruptcy.
"There's a whole stress factor involved in having to worry and battle for your insurance coverage when you're in the midst of an illness that is very specifically affecting the way you can cope in the world," she said.
But not everyone in Vermont is happy with the way parity has played out in the three years since its implementation.
In particular, the management of mental health benefits built into the legislation -- a compromise added to make the bill acceptable to budget-conscious lawmakers, according to Dr. Libertoff -- has some professionals hopping mad. 
"I think that it's good we have parity," said Dr. Richard Root, an educational psychologist in Springfield, Vt., and a former president of the Vermont Psychological Association, "but the fact is that personally it is not what I really thought it was going to be."
Since the law passed, Dr. Root said, he has had difficulty persuading insurers to authorize needed treatment for his patients. And while before parity his fee for an hour of psychotherapy was $85 to $90, he now collects $63 an hour, the fee deemed reasonable by the managed care companies. 
Dr. John Matthew, an internist in Plainfield, Vt., said he also believed that in some cases the stepped-up management had been bad for his patients' mental health.
In one instance, Dr. Matthew recalled, he had to make six calls to an 800 number to get a managed care company to authorize a single visit to a psychiatrist for a 9-year old girl with manic depression.
"I could have gotten six visits to a cardiologist without any questions being asked," he said.
Benefits for psychiatric services are often managed through a different set of procedures than are other forms of medical treatment. Many insurers, for example, farm out the management of their mental health benefits to companies that specialize in containing psychiatric costs by establishing provider networks and reviewing treatment.
And under many insurance plans, an employee who wishes to consult a psychiatrist or psychotherapist must get authorization from a "gatekeeper" for a specified number of initial visits. If the practitioner feels that more sessions are necessary, a detailed justification for further treatment must be filed, and the patient's progression is monitored at regular intervals.
"I think that the kind of managed care that's done for mental health care doesn't exist in any other branch of medicine," said Dr. Jonathan L. Weker, a psychiatrist in Montpelier who is the chairman of an independent panel established by the state to review managed care complaints.
In the right hands, health care experts say, such practices can ensure that patients get the right treatment from the right person, and that treatment continues no longer than medically necessary. Wielded by less expert or less responsible bureaucrats, however, the same procedures can ignore a patient's long-term welfare, or the judgment of providers about what type of care is needed.

A Delicate Balance
In a 1997 speech to a meeting of the American Psychiatric Association, Dr. Howard Goldman, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Maryland, called the partnering of parity and managed care "a Faustian bargain."
What is given to patients by the nominal expansion of benefits, Dr. Goldman said, may in some cases be taken away by the practices used by management companies to contain costs.
Researchers are only beginning to tease out, however, exactly how much is lost and how much is gained by the marriage of parity and managed care.
Some studies suggest that in states that already use management strategies to control the costs of mental health treatment, parity laws have had a beneficial effect. 
"If you don't have parity and you have a heavily managed system," said Dr. Regier of the American Psychiatric Association's research and education institute, "you have a double whammy against patients: not only higher co-payments and restrictions, but also the gantlet of medical necessity determinations and more frequent reviews that come with management."
Parity, when it arrives, removes the arbitrary limits on care, and may increase the number of people who have access to treatment.
In one study, for example, researchers found that the combination of parity and managed care led to an increase in the number of adults and children who used outpatient mental health services. (The length of time patients spent in outpatient treatment stayed the same, the study found, and the use of inpatient hospital beds declined.)
In other states, however, where managed care enters on parity's arm, equal-coverage laws do not seem powerful enough to dampen the impact of cost cutting by managed care companies, Dr. Regier said.
And researchers still do not know what effect, if any, parity has on the division of costs between private health plans and the public mental health system, which has traditionally cared for the most severely ill -- and thus most expensive -- patients.
One possibility is that with parity legislation, patients are able to stay in the private sector longer, reducing the burden on taxpayers, who foot the bill for public-system care. But the shifting of expense, some experts point out, could also go the other way, if insurers use managed care to push more severely ill patients into the public system, to be cared for by community mental health centers, state hospitals and federal subsidy programs like Medicaid.
What is clear is that, parity or no parity, insurers continue to do what they can to control the expense of mental health treatment, and to avoid attracting the most expensive patients.
Yet for many who depend on their health insurance to offer lifesaving help in times of crisis and to keep them afloat when the crisis has passed, parity in any form is worthwhile.
"Without parity," Kathryn Lynnes said, "you don't even get to argue about managed care."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about increased insurance coverage for mental health care referred incorrectly to the nine million people who will benefit from changes in the program for federal employees. Almost three million are current employees; the others are dependents and retirees.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two Case Studies -- Anne Donahue, above, suffered a bout of depression in 1993 that left her with $17,000 in unpaid hospital bills. She was among those who campaigned for passage of a state law in Vermont requiring equal insurance protection for mental and physical illness. Kathryn Lynnes, who has manic depression, is still paying off the last of the $70,000 she owed to two hospitals. She lives in Michigan, one of 18 states without such laws. (Andrew Sacks for The New York Times); (Paul O. Boisvert for The New York Times)(pg. A11) Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Coverage for Mental Illness"Requirements that medical insurance cover mental illness as well as physical illness vary greatly in the 32 states that have such parity laws. The differences, according to the National Mental Health Association, are shown below. (pg. A11) Map of the United States classifies each state according to one of the following categories: COMPREHENSIVE PARITYIncludes mental health and substance abuse FULL PARITYCertain exemptions or limitations to coverage LIMITED PARITYCoverage for select groups like those with severe mental illness NO PARITY(pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (77%); INSURANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (71%); HEALTH CARE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (63%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (60%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: M I N D (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2001 



10 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-6

U.S. Signs Treaty Creating World Court for Atrocities
The United States signed a treaty establishing a permanent international criminal tribunal, after President Clinton overrode objections from the Pentagon and defied Republicans in the Senate. Mr. Clinton's decision is not binding without Senate approval, but it is an endorsement of the treaty's goals. A1

Kahane's Son Killed in Ambush
Binyamin Kahane, left, a radical right-wing settler and son of the late Rabbi Meir Kahane, was killed along with his wife in an ambush in the West Bank. Soft-spoken and introverted, Binyamin Kahane seemed an unlikely heir to the virulently anti-Arab legacy of his fiercely outspoken father. Hours after the attack Israeli soldiers killed a senior Palestinian health official, Dr. Thabet Thabet. The killings, which did not appear to be related, highlighted the fragility of this tense moment, when a time-bound American peace proposal is under active consideration and a surge of retaliatory violence could cloud the already troubled deliberations. A1

Japanese Workplace Bias
An unspoken part of the annual job hunt ritual in Japan is the shunting of female students onto the secretarial track or other dead-end jobs. Even as Japan contemplates a huge labor shortage, the society has shown greater readiness to contemplate even large-scale immigration -- long a taboo -- rather than to provide equal opportunities for women. A4

Challenge to Canada's Chiefs
A new movement largely made up of Indian women is taking on Canada's native establishment and to determine how billions of dollars for Canada's one million indigenous people is being spent. A3

Attack on Caribbean Church
Men wielding machetes stormed the Roman Catholic cathedral in St. Lucia's capital, hacking worshipers and setting some on fire with a blowtorch and fuel. A nun from Ireland was killed and at least 12 others were wounded, the police and witnesses said. More than 400 people were attending Mass in Castries Cathedral, and many were lined up in the aisles to receive Communion, when the attackers entered the church. A3

NATIONAL A7-11

Bush Sought a Manager With Muscle for Pentagon
The decision to tap the era of President Gerald Ford and choose Donald H. Rumsfeld, 68, as secretary of defense reflected the strong desire by by President-elect George W. Bush and Vice President-elect Dick Cheney to select someone with enough experience and gravitas to understand security threats, neutralize opposition in Congress and, most important, handle a $309 billion operation, according to interviews with members of the Bush team and other officials. Mr. Rumsfeld is an experienced bureaucrat and corporate executive who had held the top Pentagon job a quarter-century back. A1

Federal Agenda Foreshadowed
On issues as varied as prescription drug costs and racial profiling, new state laws going into effect today will tackle many of the same problems that are likely to dominate the federal agenda in the next year. A7

New Chapter for Ancient Faith
The geographic diversity visible at the Seventh World Zoroastrian Conference points to a new chapter being written in an ancient faith, a process of globalization that carries both opportunity and peril. A7

Pay Raise Sought for Judges
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist called on Congress to increase the salaries of federal judges, making the issue the focus of his year-end report. "The need for increased compensation for federal judges has been raised in 13 of the last 19 year-end reports, yet during that time judicial salaries have not even kept pace with inflation," he said. A10

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Mental Health Breakthrough
Acting on an executive order issued by President Clinton, the federal government will begin today to offer its employees mental health benefits equal to those for physical ailments. The move to equal insurance protection for mental and physical ills represents a significant victory for mental health advocates, who long have argued that the widespread practice of providing less coverage for mental disorders is discriminatory. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

A Goodbye to a Blizzard; A Crisp Hello to a New Year
As the worst winter storm in five years churned into oblivion over the North Atlantic, leaving a foot of snow in New York City and more than two feet in New Jersey and upstate New York, battalions of plows yesterday cleared most rails, airport runways and highways. Trains, planes and unburied cars were moving again. But a day after the big blizzard, it was New Year's celebrations -- not just digging out -- that preoccupied the Northeast. A1

New Tack in Sex-Shop War
The Giuliani administration will soon announce a plan to strengthen the sex-shop zoning law that, thwarted by court rulings, so far has had little effect on the city landscape, the mayor's criminal justice coordinator said. A1

Neediest Cases B2

ARTS E1-20

Broadway Treasure-Trove
Betty Corwin, who created the New York Public Library's theatre archive 31 years ago, has stepped down, leaving a wealth of documentation as her legacy. "I'm torn between being very excited, very sad and a little panicked at this moment," Ms. Corwin said on her last day of work. The collection consists of 2,445 Broadway, Off Broadway and regional theater productions recorded during performance. E5

OBITUARIES B6-7

Alan Cranston
The Californian who ended a 24-year Senate career in 1993 under the cloud of the savings and loan industry scandal was 86. B6

Julius J. Epstein
The screenwriter who won an Academy Award for the script of "Casablanca" was 91. B7

Tanaquil Le Clercq
One of the greatest of American ballerinas, who contracted paralytic polio in 1956 while she was at the peak of her powers, she was 71. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

The Big Books That Couldn't
What do you do with the thousands of surplus copies of a big book that bombs? That question is on the minds of many publishers this week as they survey the results of the holiday season. And how publishers try to unload the unwanted volumes can be a touchy subject. Their arrangements are one of the the elements of an antitrust lawsuit, scheduled for trial in April, filed by a group of bookstores against the Barnes & Noble and Borders Group chains. C1

Oil Producers Urge Cuts
Saudi Arabia and its partners in the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council called for oil output cuts at OPEC's next meeting on Jan. 17 to shore up prices, a communique from the council's leaders said. C2

Stock Run-Up Raises Concern
Fashionmall.com, a little-known Silicon Alley online retailer, seems to have become the target of a takeover attempt that has attracted the attention of securities regulators. C2

Sitting Down for a Walk
A device that "enables a person to simulate a walking action while seated" is among new exercise systems that have received patents. Others include a vacuum cleaner leg exercise device and a hand-held weight with a built-in remote control. C2

The Upside of the Y2K Scare
A year later, the worldwide effort to prepare computers for 2000 -- all necessitated by a longstanding and seemingly trivial shortcut in computer programming -- has left information technology managers with updated information systems, software development tools and disaster plans, not to mention their most complete inventory of computer systems and how they were being used. While, in the end, the crucial transition passed with only scattered malfunctions, business leaders, regulators, lawyers, insurers and the public all became more technically literate. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: New debates for a new year; a clean, white slate; bungled ballots in Chinatown.

Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.

Bridge E10
TV Listings E19
Crossword E18
Weather B4
Public Lives A7

GRAPHIC: Photos (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); EYEWITNESSES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WOMEN (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); RACIAL PROFILING (74%); APPROVALS (72%); RACE & RACISM (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); RELIGION (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); LABOR SHORTAGES (66%); ARMED FORCES (54%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2001 



11 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: On the Brink of a Brand-New Old Age 

BYLINE:  By Laura L. Carstensen; Laura L. Carstensen is professor of psychology and director of the Institute for Research on Women and Gender at Stanford University.

DATELINE: STANFORD, Calif. 

 BODY:
The emphasis on Social Security in the presidential campaign reflected the growing awareness that in only a decade or so, millions of baby boomers are going to give America a greatly increased population over 65. Few seem to recognize, however, that unprecedented rates of longevity and a coming revolution in health treatments mean this group of older Americans will not only be larger, but will live longer, than those before.
 It's disturbing that the scope of our discussion about dealing with what's coming is truncated, as though we need only nibble around the edges -- say, by deciding whether retirement should occur at 65 or 67 or how prescription drugs should be provided. There is another conversation to be had: one concerning the optimal design of a new stage in life. 
 Old age, historically, was an experience for the few. Arguably, its transformation into an experience most of us will share -- because of collective efforts to improve sanitation and prevent disease -- represents the most important adaptive change in human history. In the 20th century, 30 years were added to average life expectancy. Yet this enormous gift is not only little celebrated, but even viewed as a crisis in the making, a change that could paralyze the nation, break the bank, destroy opportunities for younger people and place undue burdens on the middle-aged.
In fact, we have before us the opportunity to rethink and reshape our lives so that these extra years are not only meaningful for the individuals who live them, but nonburdensome and productive for the society around them. Research shows that most people already function very well until just a few short years before death: better than 60 percent of people over 80 live independently. If we make the right investments in science, technology and cultural change, life for the elderly can be not only longer but healthier and richer.
This year I headed a National Academy of Sciences committee on future directions in cognitive and neuroscience research on aging. From the research we surveyed, it appears that we are on the verge of solutions to normal age-related declines in memory. Molecular biologists have discovered that the death of neurons doesn't tell the whole story of cognitive aging. Evidence for neurogenesis has turned this notion on its head. It is becoming clear that biochemical interventions that preserve the mental functioning of people free from disease are on the horizon.
As a social scientist working with experts in many disciplines on the problems of aging, I regularly learn of other advances, too, that could dramatically alter the aging process -- and these efforts have only just begun.
Evidence from biomedical engineers suggests that we are on the verge of understanding osteoporosis and developing ways to increase bone mass so that that our bones last as long as we do. Computer technologists are working on chips embedded in eyeglasses to expand peripheral vision and in clothing to signal changes in balance, preventing falls. Psychologists are searching for the underlying mechanism that makes intimate relationships add to longevity. Mechanical engineers are developing smart houses that assist people in activities of daily living. Economists are beginning to understand the incentives, financial and motivational, that influence older people's desires to retire or work.
Of course, aging does not affect all people in the same way, a fact that is interesting to scientists because variability speaks against inevitability. We know, for example, that dementia is more likely to develop in people who have received little education, and that cognitive slowing disproportionately affects the poor, especially when they have had to make choices between medication and food. And we know that some ethnic groups -- and women, overall -- are especially likely to live with untreated chronic diseases. It behooves us all to identify the factors in people's surroundings that lead to optimal aging and design social structures to provide the right support.
As a psychological consultant to the poor elderly at a center in Berkeley, Calif., I see older people working against the odds and achieving fulfilling lives. Imagine what life could be like if they didn't have to work against the odds. And all older people, no matter what their income, should be encouraged to see themselves as still vital and even as contributors to society, rather than dependents.
Our national conversation about aging must expand beyond discussing how to care for a graying population. Encouraging passivity among healthy older people is not only bad for their health but bad for the country. There is nothing inherently wrong with an older, more mature society. It can be wonderfully adaptive for infants to be born into families that include multiple older generations who are invested in their survival. It's potentially wonderful to have a highly skilled and knowledgeable work force that only experience can deliver.
We have a choice. We can sit back and let the advances in life expectancy create problems -- and, mind you, if we continue to encourage older people to step out of the mainstream, the problems will be horrific -- or we can actively and deliberately decide what this new phase of life should mean for individuals and societies. Just imagine the possibilities. With federal funding and philanthropic support, we can find cures for Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia. We can keep older bodies strong and mobile. We can find ways to strengthen the understanding of social roles for older adults. We can redesign old age.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE EXPECTANCY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); AGING (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); OSTEOPOROSIS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (86%); SCIENCE NEWS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (77%); ELDER HEALTH (77%); BIOMEDICINE (77%); BIOMEDICAL & DENTAL MATERIALS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); ENGINEERING (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); MEDICARE (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (69%); BIOLOGY (64%); EMBEDDED SYSTEMS (60%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICARE; AGED; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 

PERSON: CARSTENSEN, LAURA L 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001 



12 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: The Market Flaw California Overlooked 

BYLINE:  By Steven Stoft; Steven Stoft, a senior research fellow at the University of California Energy Institute, is author of the forthcoming "Power System Economics."

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
California's energy market is on the verge of collapse. Wholesale electricity prices have soared in the last six months. The state's largest utilities are threatening that they will be bankrupted unless they are allowed to raise consumer electricity rates by 30 percent.
 How could this have happened when deregulation was supposed to increase efficiency and bring down electricity prices? The seeds of this market disaster rest in the flawed deregulation regime that the state and federal regulators approved three years ago. 
 On April 1, 1998, California opened up a market for wholesale electricity. For almost a century both wholesale and retail electricity prices had been regulated, but now power was to be sold to utility companies by unregulated suppliers at unregulated wholesale prices.
Before deregulation, utilities -- like Southern California Edison and Pacific Gas and Electric -- generated their own power. But they made costly mistakes, with the regulators' approval, in building power plants and signing long-term contracts. A deregulated wholesale market where private, unregulated suppliers would compete to produce power was supposed to eliminate these inefficiencies. Under deregulation, stockholders, not consumers, would pay for mistakes, and entrepreneurs with a bottom line would have incentive to hold down costs.
But in order to create competitors for the new market, utilities were forced to sell their power plants to out-of-state companies like Dynegy and Duke Energy. The utility's cost of power would no longer be the cost of generation, but the price the company paid in the wholesale market. In theory, this would save money.
The plan might have worked. But the wholesale market has a fatal flaw: The consumers of electricity are largely disconnected from wholesale prices. And for the utilities, what was worse was that deregulation did not change the fixed, regulated prices that consumers pay. So, when wholesale prices soared this summer, the utilities could not pass this enormous increase through to customers.
When there is plenty of supply, this market flaw stays hidden. And so it did in California from April 1998 through April 2000, when power was plentiful and the major utilities' costs to purchase it were relatively low.
Last summer the power supply began to tighten. On hot days there was not enough to meet demand. So wholesale prices often headed north, not stopping until they hit the price cap of $750 a megawatt hour, which was roughly 10 times the normal price. But even that price cap has since been dismantled by federal regulators.
The retail price now charged by California's two big utilities is based on a wholesale price of around $60 a megawatt hour. After six months of buying power for about $250 a megawatt hour, the utilities ran into deep financial trouble. The problem may be solved by letting them pass through the wholesale prices, and some of that is now in the works, but that leaves the customers holding the bag. 
And passing through wholesale prices on a monthly basis will not fix the flaw in the wholesale market. Monthly rate changes for consumers do not keep up with the daily fluctuations in wholesale prices, which means that customers cannot play their proper role in the market. If the price of gasoline jumped 10 times to $300 a tank, drivers would fill up less often, thus forcing prices back down. That is how the market should work.
But when the wholesale electricity price in New York went up a hundredfold for a few hours in May, people didn't turn off their air conditioners. This is because the retail price didn't change at all. Without any decrease in demand, suppliers have no reason to lower their price. After all, utilities are forced to keep buying at any price because they cannot cut off power to their customers. The failure of consumers to respond is the fundamental flaw that makes prices reach exorbitant levels when there is a little scarcity or when suppliers have even a little market power.
The profits from some generating plants reportedly jumped more than 500 percent during the past six months. Under normal market competition, an extra 10 percent profit is plenty to attract new suppliers. Yet these windfall profits in California may not draw new investment into power production. While some officials at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission have argued that prices should be allowed to go still higher in the hopes of attracting more investment, investors know that such outrageous prices cannot be sustained for the three years it would take to build a new plant. At this point, higher prices provide less incentive to build because they are less believable. Other factors, like regulatory delays in power plant sitings, are the real impediment to new investment.
California now needs both a quick fix and some fundamental market repairs. The first step must be to stop these windfall profits with a firm regional wholesale price cap. This is necessary for the success of the federal energy commission's longer-term solution, which is to allow California utilities to buy power with multiyear contracts, a move that could reduce the market power of the suppliers and stabilize prices. But suppliers are unlikely to sign contracts at reasonable prices unless the federal regulators impose a firm price cap.
The federal commission's reluctance to act against crippling price spikes leaves California in a difficult position. Right now California consumers are trapped in an endless game of blame shifting between state and federal regulators. The best way out would be for some higher authority -- perhaps the Energy Department -- to step in and appoint a professional, nonpolitical, non-special-interest market repair team. When the repairs are done, we can test drive the market again. But next time, a little caution might be a good thing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (94%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (89%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); APPROVALS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (68%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (90%); DYNEGY INC (90%); PG&E CORP (90%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (54%)

TICKER: DYN (NYSE) (90%); PCG (SWX) (90%); PCG (NYSE) (90%); DUK (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (90%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (90%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%)

PERSON: STOFT, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001 



13 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: MARKETS & INVESTING; 
After a Difficult 2000, Investment Abroad Gains in Favor

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stock markets outside of the United States last year posted their worst performance as a group in a decade, led by the sharpest drop in Japan since 1990. But many fund managers and analysts have a positive outlook on these markets this year.
 "We are quite bullish on international markets relative to the United States," said David Antonelli, director of international equity research at MFS Investment Management, a mutual fund company based in Boston. He noted that stock valuations are lower in Europe, Britain and Japan than they are in the United States and that projected earnings growth abroad is expected to be as strong as that in the United States or stronger this year. 
 Foreign companies, he added, are moving through the cost-cutting and consolidation phase that American companies began in the early 1990's, helping to enhance their competitiveness and earnings. 
And in Europe, the beleaguered euro could finally rebound, after a year-ending rally last year. It fell 13.8 percent in 1999 and 6.3 percent last year, reducing the gains or increasing the losses Americans have had abroad. "We've had the wind in our faces for two years, and now we might end up with the wind at our backs," Mr. Antonelli said.
But the scaling back of global and American growth estimates, simmering problems in emerging stock markets, high oil prices and the tendency of foreign markets to follow Wall Street when it falls sharply are all reasons for investors to be cautious. Remember that there was hope for a euro rally last year, and many of the other positives for 2001 have been cited in the past.
And Americans surely do not want a repeat of 2000, which also began with a hope that it would be a good year to invest abroad. But the sell-off in technology, media and telecommunications stocks worldwide, plus the strong dollar, gave American investors negative returns, in dollar terms, almost everywhere overseas.
Last year was the first time since 1992 that the Morgan Stanley Capital International free index of world stock markets, excluding the United States, declined. It fell 16.3 percent in dollar terms, the sharpest decline since the 24.3 percent decline in 1990. The fall abroad was worse than the 13.6 percent decline in the United States, as measured by MSCI.
The sell-off abroad accelerated at the end of the year, in line with the plunge in American markets. In early December, the Milan Stock Exchange index was up 6.4 percent, but by the end of the year, Italy's local gain had shrunk to 1.7 percent. In dollar terms, the euro's weakness turned that small gain into a 4.7 percent loss for American investors.
The Japanese marquee index, the Nikkei index of 225 stocks, was hit especially hard because it was reconfigured last year to bring in a number of new technology companies. These companies subsequently ran up in price as investors and money managers switched to the new stocks in the index. But when the technology sector crumbled, the 30 technology stocks that had been added in the spring just dragged the index down. When the Nikkei was around 17,000 at the end of August, some analysts estimated that the addition of the technology stocks had cost it about 2,000 points. 
The dollar, which rallied against the yen last year for the first time in three years, increased the pain for Americans in Japan. The strong dollar raised the loss on the Nikkei in 2000 from 27.2 percent in yen terms to 34.8 percent in dollar terms, the worst performance for Americans since the 35.1 percent loss in 1990.
The few markets that ended the year in the plus column were led by China, where growing investor comfort with the economy and a catch-up to the rebound in Asian markets in 1999 sent stocks sharply higher. Shanghai's B share index, with stocks priced in dollars and available to foreigners, surged 136.2 percent last year. It was up 32.0 percent in 1999, but it fell 16.6 percent in 1997 and 48.6 percent in 1998, during the Asian and Russian financial crises. Even with last year's huge gain, the index is up just 33.6 percent from where it was at the end of 1996. No other major market in Asia was up last year in dollar terms, in part because Asia's telecommunications stocks also plunged with those of the rest of the world.
In Europe, all the major markets declined in dollar terms, including Britain, where the weak pound added to the losses for Americans. The Swiss stock market had a gain in dollar terms because its currency is outside of Europe's unified currency and did not decline as much as the euro. Ireland, which is in the unified currency, rose 6.9 percent, led by an 81 percent surge in Elan, the pharmaceutical company.
The Canadian stock market managed a gain, with the Toronto Stock Exchange index up 2.4 percent in American dollar terms.
So while many analysts are positive about the foreign stock outlook for next year, here are some of the things that could go wrong in 2001:
The American economy could have a hard landing, rather than the soft landing investors are hoping for. Even if there is no recession -- which is less likely now that the Federal Reserve has signaled it will cut interest rates if necessary -- very slow growth here would reduce the American consumer spending that many other countries depend on to sell their products and support their economic growth. European economic growth is also showing some signs of weakness now and some analysts are worried that the Japanese economy will stumble again.
Although they have fallen recently, oil prices could stay high, draining consumer spending around the world, reducing growth further. Part of the positive spin for 2001 depends on the price of crude oil, which ended the year at $26.80 a barrel, staying well below $30.
"Oil poses downside risks to both the United States and the global economies," said Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Emerging markets are also under strain, and slow growth in the United States does not help them. And there is another problem country -- Argentina. It has just won a $39.7 billion aid package from the International Monetary Fund but still faces weak growth and has had to pay high interest rates to borrow money abroad. 
Then there is the dollar. Foreign exchange analysts are predicting, again, that the euro will rally this year, which would help the returns for American investing abroad.
The confirmation of a slowdown here has already given the euro a lift. It has climbed 14 percent against the dollar since its low in October, after the United States, Britain and the European Central Bank intervened in the currency market to support the euro. But if European growth also slows this year, the euro may not climb much further. Paul Podolsky, chief foreign exchange strategist at Fleet Global Markets in Boston, said that the euro could begin to fall again later this year. 
And one more thing could go wrong. If the Federal Reserve is ready to step in with rate cuts to prevent a sharp slowing of growth in the United States, the stock market here may begin to rally, which would lure investment from abroad, bolster the dollar and reduce the chances that foreign markets would outduel the United States.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "How World Stock Markets Fared in 2000"Change in Morgan Stanley Capital International country indexes of market performance for 2000, in local currency and dollars, plotted daily. Graphs compare foreign currency to the dollar in the United States, Canada, Britain, Germany, Brazil, Japan, South Korea and Thailand, since Jan.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (77%); BONDS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CANADA (79%); ITALY (77%); THAILAND (59%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001 



14 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 4949 words

HEADLINE: ROUND TABLE; 
Making Sense of the Moves in the Markets

 BODY:
Where will the stock market go in 2001? Will technology stocks rebound? Is a recession likely?
 To ponder these questions, we gathered three of the best thinkers in the financial markets, two who offer advice from New York and one who manages money from Minnesota. Douglas Cliggott, the United States equity strategist at J. P. Morgan, who correctly forecast that the Standard & Poor's 500 would end 2000 at about 1,300, down from 1,469.25 at the close of 1999, is cautious again this year. So is James W. Paulsen, the chief investment officer of Wells Capital Management, a money management firm in Minneapolis, and a man who has often picked up changes in the economy and markets before they become conventional wisdom. But Chris Callies, the top American strategist for Merrill Lynch, who a year ago was correctly warning that tighter monetary policy could hurt stock prices early in the year but hoped for a rebound later in 2000, argues that pessimism is way overdone and has confidence that the Federal Reserve will deal with the economy as well as it has in previous years. 
 Talking with Gretchen Morgenson and Floyd Norris of The Times, the three agreed that interest rates were headed lower, at least in the next few months, but they differed on the fate of the dollar. 
Following are excerpts from that discussion:

Q. This was the first year in a while that the market did not have a good year. Is that going to continue in 2001 or are we back to the good old days?

CALLIES -- We probably lean more toward the good-old-days scenario but not out of any conviction that the equity market deserves to go up every year or maybe 6 times out of 10.
We think that one of the more important drivers of equity market performance is Fed policy, followed, I think in close second position, by liquidity growth. And based on the Fed's recent statements it does sound as if they are preparing to cut interest rates. Our forecast calls for as many as four interest rate cuts in 2001. This will help initiate at least a temporary rise in equity market multiples. We think they could go as high as 27 times operating profits and that would translate to a target by the end of the second half or the third quarter of 1,720 on the S.& P.
So that would be a very nice gain from these levels.

Q. Jim, is it going to go up that much?

PAULSEN -- I don't think quite that much. The stock market in 2001 will probably produce some positive return but not a lot. I think it's going to be mainly interest rate driven.
I think it will also be very sector-specific. We might get a continued underperformance of technology and economically cyclical areas. The more economically defensive and bondlike stocks might carry the S.& P. up somewhere close to 10 percent, which should be at or less than what you might get from a long bond.

CLIGGOTT -- We see 2001 as almost being two different years. Roughly speaking, the first six months would look and feel a lot like the past six months. So our guess is that by the end of June a lot of stocks will be lower than they're trading at now. Most of the indices that we look at will be lower than they start the year.
We respect the power of bond yields; we respect the power of liquidity. But what we're really struck by is both the breadth and maybe the velocity of the slowdown we're experiencing right now.
Our guess is it won't really be until the market has the courage to look into 2002 that investors will start to get a little bit of confidence in earnings again. That's really the first hope that you could get for the broad market to be moving higher.

Q. Where will the S.& P., the Dow and Nasdaq end 2001?

CLIGGOTT -- Fourteen hundred for the S.& P., 11,000 for the Dow and 2,500 for the Nasdaq.

PAULSEN -- About 1,450 for the S.& P., 11,250 for the Dow and probably 3,000 for the Nasdaq.

CALLIES -- Sixteen hundred on the S.& P. 500, 11,500 on the Dow and the Nasdaq probably about 4,000.

Q. Where will the 10-year Treasury be in a year?

CLIGGOTT -- About where it is now, near 5.20. The story on interest rates is a steeper Treasury yield curve.

PAULSEN -- I venture to say we touch 4.5 percent on the 10-year, but by the end of the year it's 4.75 percent.

CALLIES -- Rates start down, then start to flow back up before the end of the year. I would say high fives. Short rates do go down.

Q. Anybody see a recession coming in 2001?

PAULSEN -- I think there are some decent odds.

CLIGGOTT -- I think we may be in one.

PAULSEN -- The economy faces a kind of double whammy. It's not only facing a traditional policy-induced slowdown -- which is brought about by the combination of rising rates, tight fiscal policy, the strong dollar killing off refinancing cash flows, taking real wages back to negative growth -- but also on top of that we have the tech sector in clear slowdown. And I don't really see a catalyst to restart it. The combination will put us very close to recession.

Q. Chris, you shake your head no.

CALLIES -- One of the characteristics of this business cycle has been that we have had localized slowdowns in a particular sector, which allows other areas that might be, so to speak, in the sweet spot of their own business cycles, to keep the economy going.
There are two key areas of the business cycle that are important right now. First is personal consumption expenditures, the kinds of things that people buy every day for themselves. One of the leading indicators as to what consumers will do is the extent to which they borrow money and their ability to buy either new or existing homes. New-home sales have been coming in at a rate that is fairly close to the high end of the cycle, and because home activity is interest rate sensitive and because long-term interest rates have been coming down, we think that the consumer side of the economy will prove to be reasonably resilient.
To be sure, it's probably not going to accelerate, but we would point out that consumer activity even in the third quarter of the year for durable goods did accelerate to a growth rate of over 8 percent. To meet the official definition of a recession, which is two consecutive negative quarters of G.D.P., you'd probably have to really impair the confidence of the consumer, and we don't think that that has happened yet.

PAULSEN -- I think the consumer has some real question marks if we do slow down. One is the tremendous amount that they've purchased in durable goods, as Chris lays out, not only in the last year but for the last several years. That spending is way off the chart in terms of its historical average to overall spending. That suggests there could be a huge saturation risk here. Once you buy all the houses and cars and computers, how many more do you really want, even if they make them attractive to buy?

CLIGGOTT -- You don't want three Suburbans in your driveway?

Q. Doug, you said you thought we might be in a recession. What's the evidence for that?

CLIGGOTT -- Whether we look at housing or autos or the stuff we stuff into houses, like the news we got from Apple and Gateway and Maytag and Whirlpool, it seems household discretionary spending is slowing in a fairly pronounced way. Every American household has been hit by the increase in energy costs and many by the negative wealth effect from the equity market.
I think that it's only a question of when, and not if, we'll see the unemployment rate rising in a meaningful way. That will give you the second round of slower consumer spending.
On the business side, heavy- trucks sales have just collapsed; telecom equipment is slowing down; computers are slowing down. Semiconductors look like they're slowing down fairly viciously. Industrial equipment's slowing down.
I don't think there's anything the Fed can do this winter that will affect the first half of 2001. I think what the Fed can do this winter is influence the depth and the length of the slowdown. But they can't prevent it from happening. It's really too late for that.

Q. Jim, what's your feeling on G.D.P. for 2001?

PAULSEN -- One of the reasons that we may all be hesitant to call it a recession is because recession calls just haven't worked. In some regards, we should have had a recession in 1995 after the Orange County debacle, and another in 1997 when the whole world melted.
I would suggest the United States avoided the last two possible recessions, in '95 and '97, because of technology. In the early '90's, tech was about 5 percent of the change in the real G.D.P. Between 1994 and 1995, it went from 5 percent to 15 percent, and it was that surge in PC's, the PC revolution, that kept real G.D.P. from slipping to two negative quarters and the recession. Then after Asia occurred, we had an Internet revolution, and that took tech from about 15 percent up to about 32 percent of economic growth. I think we're now facing the same sort of situation, but we do not this time have something on the magnitude of the PC or the Internet to cover up the rest of the cyclical slowdown that we did in the last two crises.

CLIGGOTT -- That's right. In '95, as consumer spending slowed, technology spending actually accelerated. The same thing happened in '97. The reason why we think a very meaningful slowdown has probably already started is, where are you going to go from 25 percent growth in tech? It seems to me there's only one answer, and it's down. If we go to zero percent growth in tech, the Nasdaq's not going to stop at 2,000; it's going to go a lot lower than that.

Q. Chris, I know you're bullish on technology stocks. What's your view on where we go from here in tech?

CALLIES -- There are a couple of issues to remember about this correction. We think it was primarily a multiple compression. And we say that because we do have reasonably good economic history of what capital spending slowdowns look like in tech and what some of the triggers were. This correction, big though it was in Nasdaq and tech, is one of the very few that occurred with new orders for old-economy tech -- these are the commodity things like desktops -- growing at between 20 and 30 percent year over year. So it really was not a correction that was occurring in tandem with some type of collapse in demand for tech. There was some defensive overordering by companies, and there is a minor inventory problem in certain areas of tech, but if demand remains at a relatively decent level, let's say maybe 10 percent growth instead of the 22 percent people have been accustomed to, the inventory problems will basically take care of themselves.
Compare this correction and this cycle in tech to one that was a bona fide bear market both for demand and production and capacity utilization and relative share prices, the one that occurred from 1983 to roughly 1992. During that period, you did see a very substantial deceleration in capital spending on tech down to the mid-single digits. Once the sector got hit, it stayed depressed for quite some time.

Q. You don't think that's going to happen again?

CALLIES -- I think that the market has already discounted that. The one index that was most heavily weighted with technology shares, the Nasdaq composite, was down 50 percent from the peak in 2000. This is the second-biggest decline in the Nasdaq except for 1973-'74. That market corrected enough then to tolerate an eventual decline in capital equipment spending of 8 percent year over year.
Now we would suggest that capital spending for 2001 is probably not going to go from 22 or 23 percent in 2000 to minus 8. We think that something around the 10 percent range is reasonable and that the equity market, in trying to correct the optimistic excesses, has gone to a comparably large pessimistic excess.

Q. What's G.D.P. going to do in 2001?

CALLIES -- My colleague Bruce Steinberg thinks the quarterly growth rate will be between 2.3 percent and 3.8 percent.

PAULSEN -- I think we're going to do more like 1.5, perhaps maybe a little less. And that might come with a quarter or so that's zero or negative.

Q. Doug, what are we going to get?

CLIGGOTT -- Our economics group is looking at 2.5 percent growth for the year. Their weak quarter is 1.5 in the first quarter. I think the risks to their numbers are to the downside.

Q. Are we in a credit crunch now or is one coming? What will its effects be?

CLIGGOTT -- Capital is much less available to start-up ideas than it was a year ago. And I'd say that encompasses both the high-yield market, the equity market and global capital markets. The willingness to fund high-risk ventures has receded in a fairly violent fashion.
The reason this matters so much is that essentially 100 percent of the incremental growth in capital spending is coming from either new debt or new equity. Corporate America's got a pretty significant free cash flow deficit and so to keep the capital expenditure engine running, we need to have friendly capital markets.
On the consumer side, I don't see an availability-of-credit issue. You still have lenders tripping over themselves, throwing money at households.

Q. It's fairly clear that the Postal Service would be in trouble if banks stopped mailing out credit card applications. Jim, what about the credit situation?

PAULSEN -- The whole below-investment-grade world has gone from where a year ago they had essentially free cost of capital in the equity market and a relatively reasonable debt cost to where it's become infinitely costly in the equity market and almost prohibitive in the debt market. So we certainly have a crunch going on in below-investment-grade credits.
That brings up a lot of questions about the potential uniqueness of this credit crunch. If we have record postwar high-yield spreads when the economy's growing at 3 to 4 percent, what happens if we slow the growth rate? And can the Fed do anything about that? Could it be possible that when the Fed starts to ease, the risk premium in corporates goes up faster than the impact of their easing, so many potential borrowers see their rates rising? 
Then there is the strength of the dollar. The dollar keeps going up even in the face of a massive trade deficit. What happens if the Fed starts to ease? It would like to lower the value of the dollar to restart the U.S. economy. But the dollar could go up because the world risk premium forces investors into the safety of the dollar.

Q. Chris?

CALLIES -- We think that there is a highly selective credit crunch primarily for lower-rated borrowers, whether they are businesses or consumers. It's the Fed's opportunity to either blow it or pull off a soft economic landing without a broad-based credit crunch.
In order to have a major negative economic impact, we believe that a credit crunch has to expand to encompass most segments of the economy and most levels of the lending process. It seems that bankers have been applying higher credit standards only to their lowest-rated customers. As a result, it's possible for banks to say that they are becoming stingier with credit during a period in which bank loans and leases and consumer credit growth are both actually accelerating up to the 8 to 13 percent range on a year-over-year basis.
It's quite clear that the credit markets have shut down for some of the lower-rated credits, particularly in technology, media and telecom. But one of the reasons that might be the case is the relatively large levels of issuance, not just in the United States but globally, in these industries. Part of the issue might be that investors have saturated their portfolios with this type of debt.
We think that the credit crunch actually is quite selective. And as long as it stays selective and is accompanied by fairly robust credit growth in other areas of the economy, it will probably not have a major impact on the overall business cycle.

Q. If we have a slowdown in the U.S., are there any areas overseas that might be able to pick up some of the slack? Doug?

CLIGGOTT -- Our guess is Europe could grow a little faster than the United States in 2001. But it's more that we slow down faster than than they do. I don't think anyone knows what the Japanese economy's going to do.

PAULSEN -- There is a question whether or not we ever extinguished the Asian crisis. When we look back, I wonder if we're going to find out that the Internet boom in the United States paused or delayed a worldwide Asian event. Maybe it would have been best had we not had that. Then U.S. and European officials would have eased much more aggressively after Asia and for a longer time. The U.S. would have stayed slow and maybe taken care of a lot of the lingering Asian problems. As it is, we went right back to tightening within months of the low in Asia. As a result of that, we never really brought the rest of the world clearly out of that.
I think that Japan is probably in recession at this point and a lot of the Asian tiger countries are close to that. Europe is in better shape. But we're going to find out just how strong the world is without the U.S. importer. Not only does the U.S. cycle slow, but maybe the rest of the world even slows more on the back of that.

CALLIES -- We probably wouldn't differ too much in terms of what areas of the global economy seem to be reasonably healthy and which ones don't. The consumer economy in Japan still appears to be moribund. Until that changes, it's going to be hard for the Japanese economy to be one of the main drivers of global growth. Europe would be one part of the global picture that might be able to grow reasonably well and tolerate some minor fluctuations in the United States, but there, too, we rely to some extent on the wisdom of policy makers. We would rather not see any further tightening of monetary policy there.
One of the more interesting aspects of this past year was the extent to which tech drove a lot of investment patterns. One of these we're still experiencing in the form of the relatively persistent strength of the dollar versus the euro, which we suspect will change within the next year. But foreign investors have had a terrific appetite for U.S. assets, and it's not just financial assets but cross-border mergers and direct investment in the United States.

CLIGGOTT -- With our current account deficit now, I think we need about $1.2 billion a day to come into the United States in investments, and that includes Saturday and Sunday. You don't need Europeans to lose their appetite. All you need is for them to be a little less hungry and you could get the dollar moving, and moving pretty quickly in the other direction. Since the data have gotten weak, since the Fed has acknowledged the weakness of the data, you've basically had the euro going up and the dollar going down.
An important piece of the financial puzzle in 2001 could be a reversal in the dollar. If I'm sitting in the Federal Reserve and the dollar's going down while the economy weakens, that complicates my inflation outlook and the policy response.

PAULSEN -- It's interesting that we still carry this legacy of worrying about inflationary pressure. It seems to me when you look around the primary thing corporations are struggling with is the inability to lift their prices. If there's intense price competition when we're growing at a 5 to 6 percent real rate, what happens if we slow and the dollar even goes up more and puts even more intense pricing competition into the equation? That's what I'm worried about.

CALLIES -- I guess my perspective is inherently a little different. We've been looking at a lot of international crises going back several decades, and it seems to us that a lot of the potential for the U.S. economy and for the U.S. stock market resides in the hands of domestic consumers and domestic investors. International investors can add spice to the mix, but, for the most part, the Treasury markets and the equity markets seem to do best when domestic investors are in the process of a big asset-allocation change -- out of fixed income, out of cash and into equities.
So my concern longer term, both with respect to the economy and the stock market, would be the extent to which some of the short-term deceleration in the consumer confidence surveys is the beginning of a major trend. The timing of this latest deceleration in consumer confidence is interesting because it occurred at the point when the then-unresolved presidential election contest was getting just a little bit more combative than usual. My guess is that it will recover as we start 2001, in part because, although we would expect to see some upward creep in the unemployment rate, a lot of businesses are indicating that they would like to hire more people.

Q. I was wondering how long it would take before anybody mentioned we had an election. We're going to have a Republican Congress with a very narrow majority and a Republican president with something less than an overwhelming mandate. What difference is this going to make?

CLIGGOTT -- To me, it's all downhill. An idyllic environment for equities is a very tight fiscal policy that allows the Fed to run a very easy monetary policy. That describes the lion's share of the 1990's and one of the reasons equities did so well. We're going to witness an easing of fiscal policies, and, as a result, monetary policy will be maybe a little bit, maybe quite a bit, tighter.

PAULSEN -- I don't think the election makes a lot of difference. Probably similar things would have occurred regardless of whether Bush or Gore was elected. The whole election premise was the idea that we had this one-time chance to really do something because we have this nice surplus. It would be perfectly ironic if, by the time the legislature debates what to do, by next August or so the surplus is gone because the recession hit and welfare expenditures went up and tax receipts went down.

CALLIES -- There's some question as to exactly how the Bush administration will try to advance its agenda. It sounds as if they are going to return to the tax-cut program that was not that long ago referred to as dead-on-arrival by a lot of people. To the extent that some of this program is passed and is phased in over the next year or so, my guess is it will help serve as a safety net under the U.S. economy. I'm not convinced it's necessarily a bad thing because, if it is phased in, the economic effects could stretch out over time and thereby not necessarily constitute an inflationary stimulus to the economy. I don't think it necessarily will translate to something that the Fed needs to combat by backing off of the easing policy that it seems to be embarking on for early 2001.

Q. Chris pointed out that stocks do well when American investors move money from other assets into stocks. What's the outlook there?

CLIGGOTT -- That asset-allocation point is hugely important. It looks like a lot of Americans have come to the realization that they own a lot of stock and maybe they don't need to own more of it right now. I think that the person in the street is in a little bit of a state of shock that the equity market can go down like it's going down. It's been a long time since that happened. The risk over the next 12 to 18 months is that you see some people all of a sudden being interested in a C.D. again that's yielding 5 or 6 percent.

Q. Anybody else? Is the love affair with stocks starting to fade?

PAULSEN -- I don't think it has yet. Despite the fact that we've collapsed tech stocks by 50 percent, the market, even when it was down 5 percent in a day, did not seem panicky at all to me. I would feel better about the tech thing being done if there was a sense of a major panic and a movement away from stocks. I don't think we're there.

CALLIES -- The American investor is surprisingly resilient, and I don't know if this is necessarily a good thing or a bad thing. I suspect that they have been chastened, but I don't think that they are ready to give up yet on equities or for that matter on technology. And I don't know that I would argue with this very much either. When you look at the earnings power of the other sectors of the S.& P. 500 over a long period of time, one of the lessons that comes through fairly strong over several decades is that unless the equity markets are faced with a significant inflation problem, growth-type companies -- and by this I mean companies that are involved in some type of new technology, which sometimes is health care, not necessarily just software and networking -- have generally produced some really spectacular returns and over some fairly extended periods of time.
What would concern me is a type of asset deflation that would hit the markets quite conspicuously. For instance, 1987, '88, '89 is an interesting period for gauging consumer behavior and the ability to tolerate disappointment. During that period, two major financial asset classes -- actually three if you want to include the bond market, but I'm thinking here of the S.& P. and the Nasdaq -- went down fairly substantially.
And as a consequence, in part, of changes in the tax code that occurred around the same time, investment in real estate and then later the prices of primary residences, certainly in this area, were under a fair amount of pressure. That pressure didn't really lift until employment began to accelerate in 1993. People did back off from the equity markets at that point, briefly.

Q. Let's talk about what to buy.

CLIGGOTT -- We're very defensive. We want you to own stocks like Procter & Gamble. In financial services, we want you to own insurance stocks. An insurance stock we like is Ace Limited. Health care, we like H.M.O.'s and pharmaceuticals, such as Cigna and Schering-Plough. We don't think it's too late to own energy. A couple we like are El Paso Energy and Ultramar Diamond Shamrock.

PAULSEN -- The sectors that are interesting -- even though they've done pretty well in the last several months -- are the old-line unit growth areas, which are largely staples and health care. I would look at Colgate and Pepsico and McDonald's. Their growth rate is not really that different from what it was a year ago or two years ago, but it's much more attractive when the high-octane part of the growth market now has a risk premium in it and the economy itself is growing much more slowly. And I think, if the economic reports continue to worsen, that it's going to drive investment in those areas.
Others would be the bondlike areas, which would be the utilities, financials, perhaps some integrated oils.

Q. Tell me some growth stocks you like.

PAULSEN -- I stick to the old-line staples in health care, Abbott Labs and Merck. I would stick with some of those monopoly-type large-cap plays because I think we're going to find out that, if the economy slows again, small-cap starts to underperform large-cap.

CALLIES -- I guess the difference for us is that we believe that the U.S. economy has an extremely high probability of enjoying, if I can use that phrase, a soft economic landing. The equity market leadership in the first half of 2001 probably will reflect benign soft-landing leadership themes in conjunction with the Fed easing. This would mean selected financial services shares, consumer cyclicals. Technology actually has been a prominent leader associated with Fed rate cuts in a soft economic landing environment.
One area that ordinarily would do well in this type of a situation that we don't wish to pursue for 2001 is health care. This is primarily because of the valuation profile of the major pharmaceutical stocks. They are selling at approximately 80 percent of their maximum relative multiple over the last 10 years, and we have discovered that, no matter how high quality the growth of a sector that has this characteristic, it has been very difficult to sustain outperformance.
We are focusing on the tech sector for two reasons. First, while we agree that it will slow down, we just don't think that it's going to slow to a negative number, and we believe the market actually has positioned for that negative outcome. We think that, as expectations normalize to something that is more consistent with economic activity in tech, we'd go back to some things like Analog Devices. The pressure on tech companies to keep costs under control is going to benefit the outsourcing or the contract manufacturers, so we like Sanmina. In the semiconductor area, we'd like to look at some of the higher-quality names like Xylinx.
We also think that growth at a reasonable price as a general theme will return in part because the multiple expansion that I was referring to earlier is likely to be temporary. Investors really should not want to be heavily exposed to high P.E., ultrahigh momentum shares, if in fact P.E.'s are going to be fairly volatile. There is a fair amount of growth at a reasonable price in the S.& P. 500. That's one of the reasons that we think the market leadership will broaden out in 2001. A lot of it is in the quality retailers, such as Kohl's and Talbots.
There are some structural supply-demand imbalances developing in the U.S. economy. The State of California has made a wonderful example of supply constraints in electric utilities. We prefer the hybrid companies that have a portion of their old captive customer base as well as some of the new-economy electric space, typically exemplified by the merchant power generators or the companies with wholesale power trading operations. This is one of the reasons we like Duke Energy.
And in the energy sector, we see a similar supply-demand constraint story for very similar reasons, just basically underinvestment in these two areas, the mirror image of possibly some overinvestment in technology. We'd like to look at some of the integrated companies, like Chevron, for the next phase of the energy cycle.

Q. Thank you all very much.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christine Callies; James Paulsen; Douglas Cliggott (pg. C8); (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 7) Chart: "Predictions for 2001"Where will markets go this year? The biggest difference of opinion was on the Nasdaq composite, where Chris Callies sees a large gain, James Paulsen a small gain and Douglas Cliggott an even smaller one. Year-end levels: Dow industrials -- 10,786.85CALLIES -- 11,500 up 7%PAULSEN -- 11,250 up 4%CLIGGOTT -- 11,000 up 2% Year-end levels: S. & P. 500 -- 1,320.28CALLIES -- 1,600 up 21%PAULSEN -- 1,450 up 10%CLIGGOTT -- 1,400 up 6% Year-end levels: Nasdaq composite -- 2,470.52CALLIES -- 4,000 up 62%PAULSEN -- 3,000 up 21%CLIGGOTT -- 2,500 up 1% Year-end levels: 10-year Treasuries -- 5.10%CALLIES -- High 5'sPAULSEN -- 4.75%CLIGGOTT -- 5.20%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); INTEREST RATES (87%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BONDS (76%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO; WELLS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT; MORGAN, J P, & CO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: CALLIES, CHRIS; PAULSEN, JAMES W; CLIGGOTT, DOUGLAS R; MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001 



15 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Health Care Emergency 

 BODY:
One of the most devastating social consequences of Russia's mismanaged passage to a market economy over the last decade has been the virtual collapse of its health care system. Soviet-era conditions were poor, with long waits, brusque bureaucracy and uneven standards of care. But today's problems are more fundamental. Public hospitals and clinics lack the most basic medicines and equipment and are nearly overwhelmed by an increasingly sick population. 
 A series of articles in The Times over the past month has shown the harsh consequences for ordinary Russians. Despite successful reform efforts in a few localities and the heroic efforts of dedicated doctors to improvise their way around the shortages, the overall statistics are grim. Male life expectancy has declined to just 59.9 years, compared with 74.1 years in the United States. Russia's death rate now surpasses its birth rate. Once tamed infectious diseases, including tuberculosis, diphtheria and polio, are again spreading at worrisome rates. On top of this, many Russians have responded to economic hardships with self-destructive forays into alcoholism and violence. 
 The resulting erosion of the able-bodied work force threatens Russia's hopes for economic revival, and perhaps for political stability as well. Neighboring countries are threatened by the alarming spread of communicable diseases like drug-resistant tuberculosis and AIDS.
Revitalizing health care must now become one of Russia's most urgent priorities. Substantial resources will have to be directed into treatment and prevention programs, more than Russia's national or local governments can currently afford. Outside help will be needed as well, from Western governments, international aid institutions like the World Bank and private sources like American medical schools. Russia's wealthy oligarchs should also consider funding philanthropies dedicated to health care improvements. 
International assistance programs must be carefully designed to prevent fraud and diversion. Foreign dollars ought to be channeled into national childhood immunization programs, providing needed vaccines, training and public education. Help is also needed in raising medical salaries, which are abysmally low. Even with attention and resources, the revival of public health care institutions will take years. Meanwhile, private hospitals and clinics need to be nurtured and made more accessible to poor and rural Russians. 
The Times series reported on a remarkably successful partnership between the cities of La Crosse, Wis., and the Russian city of Dubna, 100 miles north of Moscow, that modernized maternity care, pediatric treatment and home care of the elderly. 
The key element in these changes was not money, but a series of exchange visits between the two communities that introduced Dubna's political leaders and medical professionals to more up-to-date methods and techniques. The partnership succeeded in large part because Dubna's leadership did not succumb to the passivity that paralyzes efforts to revitalize Russia's heath care system elsewhere. 
In today's interconnected world of migration, investment and trade, no country's health care problems stand alone. America and other Western nations should recognize that they serve their own interests as well as their humane responsibilities by helping Moscow provide for its people a level of health care worthy of a modern European nation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (77%); PEDIATRICS (76%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (76%); VACCINES (74%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (74%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); DRUG RESISTANCE (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); CRIME PREVENTION (64%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SURVEYS AND SERIES; EDITORIALS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001 



16 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2783 words

HEADLINE: MISSING ELEMENT/A special report.; 
Battery Park City Is Success, Except for Pledge to the Poor

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON 

 BODY:
Twenty-five years ago, Battery Park City was little more than a barren riverside landfill and a dream. Today, its copper-roofed office towers, 25 upscale condominium and apartment buildings and finely manicured riverfront parks have become some of the most valuable real estate in New York City.
 But one central ingredient in the formula devised and refined by a succession of New York governors and mayors is missing: the roughly 60,000 low- and moderate-income housing units promised either within Battery Park City or elsewhere in the city. 
 The plan, conceived in the mid-1960's by Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller and Mayor John V. Lindsay, was to avoid building just a "Riviera on the Hudson" by using the money that this government-backed project would generate to benefit the city's poor and middle class.
But while Battery Park City has flourished, generating tens of millions of dollars each year in revenues from leases and other sources, the low-cost housing plan has nearly disappeared, producing from 1,557 to 4,350 units of low- or moderate-cost housing in the last decade, depending on how it is counted. 
What happened to Battery Park's commitment to finance the preservation or renovation of up to 60,000 units of housing citywide is hard to untangle, in part because responsibility now stretches over five mayoral administrations.
Officials at the Battery Park City Authority, an agency created by the state in 1968 that collects rent and payments from landlords that are made in lieu of taxes, and pays off its debts, say they have lived up to the bargain by turning over millions of dollars to the city every year. As to what happened to the money the authority has given to the city, Timothy S. Carey, president of the authority, said that is a question the city should answer.
City officials, though, say that they never really regarded the agreement as binding, and that the city has relied on a loophole in the agreement to spend the Battery Park money as it sees fit -- sometimes for housing, but more often for other things.
"If all you are talking about is money, I am not going to speak to money," Deputy Mayor Robert M. Harding said, when asked if the city had honored its Battery Park City commitments. "The city has done a remarkable job of putting new housing units on."
But housing advocates in the city, as well as several of the original architects of the deal, say that the commitments made at Battery Park City's birth have not been honored.
"I am terribly disappointed," said Meyer S. Frucher, president of the Battery Park City Authority from 1984 to 1988 and now chief executive of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. "I think it has been a breach of faith."
The perceived failure to honor the agreement has become a central tenet in the intensifying criticism of the Giuliani administration by housing advocates, who contend it has largely ignored the increasingly acute shortage of low- and moderate-income housing in the city.
These advocates have recently been pressing Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to reassert the city's commitment to the deal, by including in his final budget plan a large new investment in housing, a request the mayor has already hinted he intends to honor.
"There is an opportunity to start anew," said Carol Lamberg, executive director of the Settlement Housing Fund, which has participated in the meetings with Mr. Giuliani's top aides. "It is not too late."

The Pledge
An Obligation to Help All Housing Classes
The notion of replacing 20 rotting Hudson River piers with a virtual new city first surfaced in 1962, the same year architectural work on the adjacent World Trade Center began. Land dug up to make way for the twin towers was deposited along the Hudson shore, and on it would be built Battery Park City.
In a 1968 joint statement, Governor Rockefeller and Mayor Lindsay pledged that "the city would earmark funds it would normally receive from new commercial and luxury developments to underwrite land costs for new low- and middle-income housing." By 1969, Mr. Lindsay reached an agreement with other city officials that two-thirds of the 15,000 apartments set to rise at Battery Park City would be for people with low or moderate incomes, which in today's terms mean annual incomes up to about $45,000 for a family of four.
"With the climate of division coming out of the riots and civil rights struggle, this was the right thing to do," Percy E. Sutton, the former Manhattan borough president, said in an interview last month. "If you are going to use public land and public money, you have an obligation to be sure that it is racially and economically integrated or at least benefits people of all classes."
The construction of the 92-acre landfill was completed in 1976, when the city had slumped into a fiscal crisis, and the idea of developing Battery Park City as a mixed-income community was abandoned as quaintly utopian.
But after city finances stabilized and construction of housing and offices at Battery Park City had begun in the mid-1980's, a new vision for Battery Park was embraced: allow an exclusive community to be developed, but use money generated by it to finance affordable housing elsewhere in the city.
The idea seemed particularly apt, for the city was facing a drastic cut in the federal government grants aimed at low- and moderate-income housing. And the state's Mitchell-Lama program, which had created about 135,000 units of middle-income city housing since 1955, was no longer producing new units.
Battery Park City could never generate enough money to replace these programs. But Mr. Frucher, then the head of the Battery Park authority, suggested in a letter in October 1984 to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo that the authority's surpluses should be used to finance what they could in the way of new housing and the rehabilitation of existing housing for low-income residents.
That concept ultimately translated into two separate agreements between the city and the authority. First, the state would issue bonds, to be paid off with Battery Park City revenues, that would provide a total of $400 million to renovate 24,000 units of low-cost housing. After that, Battery Park City would give the city an additional $600 million in direct payments for low-cost housing in other parts of the city. Under that formula, Mr. Frucher said in a recent interview, 60,000 such units were expected by the end of the 1990's.
The agreement, signed by Mayor Edward I. Koch in December 1989, stated that the city should not use any of the $600 million in payments to substitute for city spending, meaning that the money had to be used to increase the investment in housing construction or housing programs beyond what the city would already have spent.

The Wealth
Corporate Centers And Luxury Yachts
Battery Park City has thrived. The World Financial Center is now home to the headquarters of American Express, Dow Jones, Merrill Lynch and other corporations. More than 6,000 apartments have been built, from TriBeCa Pointe in the north to South Cove Plaza in the south. The complex now includes Stuyvesant High School, the Museum of Jewish Heritage and the new headquarters of the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Its riverfront esplanade and Winter Garden courtyard, filled with palm trees and fringed with upscale retailers, draw crowds. Sailboats and luxury yachts dock at its private harbor.
Today, an estimated 40,000 people work there each day and 9,000 or so people live within Battery Park City. A two-bedroom apartment with river views rents for $3,800 to $5,500 a month, while a two-bedroom apartment facing the river sells for $635,000 to $800,000, real estate agents said. Four-bedroom penthouse apartments at the new Ritz-Carlton Downtown, now under construction, are selling for up to $6 million.
All this development has generated lots of money for the Battery Park City Authority, totaling $147 million last year. The authority pays off its debt and other bills, including $5.2 million last year invested in security and routine upkeep for the 32 acres of parks. The money that is left over is transferred to the city.
Mr. Carey, who was appointed by Gov. George E. Pataki to run the authority, says there is no question that Battery Park City has lived up to the agreed-upon terms by delivering the money for housing.
"Our promise has been kept," Mr. Carey said in an interview. 
Since the first buildings opened at Battery Park City in the early 1980's, the authority has turned over a total of $705 million to New York City, according to authority documents. That money has come either as simple cash transfers of surplus funds, or as large payments -- reaching up to $150 million in one lump sum -- generated from the sale of bonds backed by Battery Park City. Of the total, $419 million has been given to the city for the express purpose of preserving, renovating or constructing housing, the documents show.

The Cutbacks
Initial Success, Then Fiscal Troubles
At first, there was clear evidence that the city and Battery Park City honored the housing commitments. Bonds backed by Battery Park City produced $143 million to finance the renovation of 893 apartments for low- and moderate-income families in the Bronx and an additional 664 in Harlem.
New Settlement Apartments, built in the Mount Eden neighborhood of the southwest Bronx, are a testament to this investment: 14 once burned-out buildings now filled with tenants since 1990. More than 250 of the tenants had once been homeless, or had lived in shelters, said Jack Doyle, the complex director.
Studios rent for about $400 to $450 a month, while three-bedroom apartments cost $650 and $800.
"I feel very proud of living here," said Nilda Louisa, a mother with five children who has rented at New Settlement since it opened.
In recent years, too, about 325 moderate-income apartments have also been built by housing developers within Battery Park City, and now make up about 5 percent of the complex's 6,077 apartments. Many of those are two-bedroom units reserved for four-person families with incomes that do not exceed $28,000.
But as early as 1990, the first plank of the affordable housing commitment, the $400 million in Battery Park City-financed bonds, ran into trouble after its initial success.
First, the initial housing rehabilitation project in Harlem and the Bronx that had been paid for with these bonds ended up costing far more than expected, an average of $90,000 a unit, after the city decided to go with an unusually expensive form of renovation. That meant the initial estimates that the $400 million in revenues from the bonds could produce 24,000 units was overly optimistic, even unrealistic.
The early 1990's recession only worsened matters.
First, Mayor David N. Dinkins, facing a large projected budget deficit, turned to Battery Park City for help, persuading state officials in 1990 to turn over a $150 million special payment to the city, financed with new Battery Park City-backed bonds.
This special payment to the city may have been a relief to the mayor. But it made it harder for Battery Park City to issue yet more bonds to honor its housing commitment, officials there said.
And then Olympia & York, the Canadian builder of the World Financial Center, filed for bankruptcy protection, and the attendant questions about Olympia & York's future again damaged Battery Park's ability to produce the bond revenues aimed at housing.
Ultimately, despite the promising start made with the $143 million generated by the first burst of bond revenues, none of the remaining $257 million promised under the agreement was paid to the city.

The Refusals
Giuliani Officials Disdain a Commitment
The second mechanism by which Battery Park City was going to deliver on its stated mission -- direct payments of $600 million in surplus revenues to the city government to support housing projects -- has also been far from fully realized.
Battery Park officials have records proving they have delivered the money to the city each year, although it has been at a slower annual rate than the state and city had anticipated. The payments started in 1992, with a $10.8 million contribution, and have gradually grown to $57.1 million in the city's 2000 fiscal year. So far, a total of $276.2 million has been turned over to the city.
But the Giuliani administration has not felt compelled to spend the money on housing programs, asserting that the commitment made years ago is neither legally binding nor fiscally smart. And Giuliani administration officials say former administrations felt and acted the same way.
Perhaps the most telling example of the administration's position with respect to the aim of using Battery Park City to finance affordable housing is the larger fact that city spending on housing of any and all kinds is about half what it was a decade ago.
In the 1991 fiscal year, for example, the year before the first payment, a combined total of $940 million in city money was spent on housing-related construction and Department of Housing and Community Development services, according to the New York City Independent Budget Office. In 2000, the city's spending on the same efforts was about $535 million.
Giuliani administration officials are disdainful of the Battery Park City accords.
Jerilyn Perine, the commissioner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said that dating back to Mayor Koch, city officials resisted formally honoring the Battery Park City agreements in part because of the inability to predict just how much money it would mean for housing construction projects. She said that committing Battery Park City money to affordable housing, without question and irrespective of other budgetary concerns, was foolhardy.
"Koch didn't want to continue doing it either," she said. "If you are going to run a housing program, you want to have a housing program that is part of a budget process so you have some surety. It is very difficult to run a housing program based on whether or not Battery Park City is going to turn a profit in a particular year."
A June letter sent by the Giuliani administration to Battery Park City bluntly explained how a $46.6 million payment representing Battery Park's 1999 surplus was used: "to maintain existing city services." The letter cited a provision in the 1989 agreement that allows the city to spend the Battery Park City money however it sees fit, if it is facing a projected budget deficit. What the memorandum did not mention is that three days after it was sent, the city ended its fiscal year with a $3.2 billion surplus, the largest in New York City history.
The only time the Giuliani administration has ever claimed to have invested the Battery Park City payments directly into housing construction involved the renovation of 2,471 apartments, largely in the South Bronx, an effort that had been paid for with city money and almost entirely completed during the Dinkins administration, according to city documents provided in response to Freedom of Information Act requests. The Battery Park payments were used to reimburse the city for these projects, the documents say.
Ultimately, Deputy Mayor Harding said that questions about how the city is spending the Battery Park City money are irrelevant. What matters, he said, is that during the Giuliani administration, the supply of occupied housing units in the city has increased by 44,000, in large part because of the booming economy.
But city housing advocates are unconvinced. The net number of housing units in the city may have grown during the Giuliani administration, as Mr. Harding asserts, but during the same time, the city population has increased and the city has lost tens of thousands of units of housing within the reach of the city's poor or working class residents, said Frank Braconi, executive director of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council.
The city, the housing advocates said, may have found loopholes that allowed it to spend the Battery Park City money as it saw fit, but in doing so it violated the spirit of the commitment dating back three decades.
Mr. Frucher, the former Battery Park City president, called it "an abomination." Glenn S. Pasanen, associate director of City Project, a nonprofit budget monitoring group, said, "We think it is a sham."
With Battery Park City officials predicting that they will generate more than $65 million a year for the foreseeable future, Mr. Braconi and other housing advocates said, a wide open window of opportunity exists still.
"It does not call for a major innovation," said Mr. Braconi, who wrote a letter to Mayor Giuliani, Mr. Carey and Governor Pataki earlier this year urging such a move. "All that is needed is the political will to move it forward."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Battery Park City is a triumph on its silver anniversary, including the Museum of Jewish Heritage, top. But little of the promised low- and moderate-income housing ever materialized from its profits. Above, the bare landfill formed a beach in 1983. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B4) Chart: "Battery Park City: Noble Ideas, Mixed Results"From Battery Park City's inception, the wealth created by the development was supposed to benefit the city's working class and poor, but there is little evidence that anything more than a small portion of low- and moderate-income housing was ever built. 1965 -- Phase One: Mixed-income housing concepts emergePhase Two -- Profits to be used to build housing elsewherePhase Three -- Payments begin 1962First plan for revitalizing 20 collapsing Hudson River piers calls for a mix of residential, commercial and industrial use. 1966Governor Rockefeller endorses the idea and has an architect design a model community with low- and middle-income housing. 1976The landfill is completed, changing the 20 piers into 92 acres of land. But because of a fiscal crisis in New York, development stalls. 1969Under political pressure, city agrees to split housing evenly between low, moderate and upper incomes. 1979With the original plan fiscally unfeasible, a new plan emerges that drops a commitment to mixed- income housing. 1992Payments toward $600 million commitment begin. 1982The first residents move into the area. Office construction under way. 1984The Battery Park City Authority proposes using surplus revenues to construct and rehabilitate low-income housing elsewhere in New York City. Bonds providing $400 million and later payments of $600 million are ultimately scheduled. 2000Battery Park City now includes 28 acres of parks, 25 residential buildings, a yacht harbor, the Museum of Jewish Heritage and four World Financial Center towers. Payments toward the $600 million deal total $276 million. (Source: Independent Budget Office, Battery Park City Authority)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report; Chronology 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); LANDFILLS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (62%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%) HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LANDFILL; SHORTAGES 

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); LIPTON, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) BATTERY PARK CITY (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001 



17 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
Good? No, But Greed Is Useful

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
AT the height of the Blizzard of 2000, after braving the winds and the lines at the supermarket, I was returning home with a precious hoard of milk and bread when I saw a neighbor heading into the swirling snow. 
 "Stocking up on groceries?" I asked. 
 "No," she said casually. "I have a hair appointment." 
A hair appointment? I knew city officials had been promising to maintain essential services, but I had a feeling that the snow-emergency vehicles were not being used to ferry hairdressers to their posts.
"Have you been watching the news?" I said. "Don't you think the salon will be closed?"
She scoffed. "When there's money to be made, people don't let snow get in the way," she said. Two hours later she returned triumphant with shorter hair.
A blizzard at the start of a holiday weekend might have seemed like nature's way of telling everyone to take a three-day break, but the message did not get through. Neither snow nor winds nor New Year's Day hangovers stayed the cash registers at salons, gyms, restaurants, newsstands, bodegas, drugstores, hardware stores and countless other small businesses. 
Their persistence was partly a consequence of New York's subway system, which kept carrying workers and customers despite the storm, but there were similar scenes in the suburbs, too. As the blizzard blew through Dobbs Ferry in Westchester County, a woman in a nail salon on Main Street was getting a pedicure.
What mattered was not so much the weather outside but the profit inside. Libraries were closed, but movie theaters and video-game arcades were open. My neighbor's observation about money was a corollary to Adam Smith's most famous passage in "The Wealth of Nations."
"It is not from the benevolence of the butcher, the brewer, or the baker, that we expect our dinner, but from their regard to their own interest," Smith wrote. "We address ourselves, not to their humanity but to their self-love, and never talk to them of our own necessities but of their advantages. Nobody but a beggar chooses to depend chiefly on the benevolence of his fellow-citizens." 
That passage has been called the least appreciated insight in intellectual history, in part because it's often misinterpreted. Smith was not criticizing benevolence or advocating selfishness. Unlike one of his disciples, the villain in the movie "Wall Street," he was not saying, "Greed is good."
But his focus on self-interest can sound callous and wrongheaded, particularly at this time of year. The holiday season is filled with acts of benevolence not motivated by self-interest. It's a season for celebrating kindness to strangers and love for family and friends -- virtues that are quite real and essential, no matter how economically irrational they might seem.
But when the holidays are ending, when you're not dealing with friends or family, when the blizzard starts blowing, then you can begin to appreciate Adam Smith's practicality. This weekend, whether you were looking for bread or a haircut or entertainment for a child with cabin fever, you could find someone to provide it for a price.
THE merchants come through whenever a storm hits New York, yet for some reason we keep doubting them. As I was standing in line at the supermarket, clutching my extra loaf of bread, it occurred to me that I had never seen any storm leave any grocery store in New York without bread. My fellow hoarders must have known it too. 
But we couldn't help ourselves. We couldn't trust in the selfishness of the bakers and the drivers and the grocers who supply the bread. Selfishness does not inspire warm feelings. We would not celebrate Santa Claus for traveling through the snow if he were turning a profit on the toys.
There is a statue in Central Park commemorating the dog sled expedition that selflessly carried medicine through an Alaskan blizzard in 1925. It seems safe to predict that there will be no statues of pharmacists who made money delivering prescriptions during the Blizzard of 2000.
Well, generosity is good, but we have to contend with other qualities, too. It would be nice to think, looking around the newsroom here yesterday, that everyone who trudged through the snow to work on a holiday was motivated by a generous desire to protect the public's right to know. But Adam Smith would realize that the extra holiday pay had something to do with it.
"We are not ready," Smith wrote, "to suspect any person of being defective in selfishness." Greed may not be good, but at least it is dependable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); WEATHER (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); NAIL SALONS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (71%); HARDWARE STORES (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); RETAILERS (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); SUBURBS (64%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; WEATHER 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001 



18 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: What Keeps a Bottom Line Healthy? Weight Loss 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
Perhaps shoppers did not notice as they scurried through supermarkets filling carts with potato chips and nachos for the holiday party, but their loads may have been a little lighter than in the past.
 In an effort to offset rising production costs, Frito-Lay, the world's largest maker of salty snack foods, has begun putting fewer chips in bags of Fritos, Chee-tos and other well-known brands, while keeping the price the same. 
 A supermarket-size sack of Lay's potato chips has lost an ounce in the last month, or about 7.5 percent of its previous weight, but still costs $2.99. A 99-cent box of Cracker Jack has shed about 6.7 percent of its weight. And a $3.29 bag of Doritos has dropped almost 7 percent of its weight. 
The packages themselves have also shrunk, ever so slightly, so they do not seem less full when customers grab them off the rack.
"It's a rip-off," said Jan Buttram, a playwright out shopping for a Christmas party at a Midtown Manhattan supermarket. "If I knew they were putting less in, I wouldn't buy it."
Industry insiders have a name for the practice: the weight-out. It is a subtle way of earning more from everyday products without scaring off price-conscious shoppers, and it is quite legal as long as the package accurately describes what is inside.
Makers of candy, coffee and tuna fish have all tried weight-outs, with varying success. But the practice had been relatively scarce since the mid-1990's, largely because the cost of raw materials was low enough that manufacturers could afford to forgo price increases and still preserve the bottom line.
Now, however, the cost of production is rising -- expenses like energy, packaging, even ink. So weight-outs have slowly begun to resurface as a means of maintaining corporate profits without enraging customers, who are often none the wiser. 
"We haven't encountered an environment like this in a long time," said Emanuel Goldman, a food and beverage analyst with ING Barings. "There's more resistance to raising prices than in the past, so you're going to get a lot more of these weight-outs." 
For instance, while holding prices steady, the Perrier Group, a subsidiary of Nestle, has just completed a switch to five gallons from six for home deliveries of Poland Spring bottled water, a swap it plans for water-cooler jugs of its Calistoga brand as well.
In September, Procter & Gamble scaled back the number of disposable diapers in its Luvs and Pampers packages by an average of 13 percent, while cutting prices only 7 percent. Company officials said the change, which, for example, comes out to eight fewer diapers in a jumbo pack that previously had 56, left parents with just enough diapers to get through the week, while providing Procter a price increase for each diaper sold.
Kimberly-Clark made a similar change to its Huggies diapers almost immediately after Procter & Gamble acted, prompting makers of many generic diapers to do the same.
"Everyone in the diaper industry is downsizing to the same count," said Tami Jones, a Procter spokeswoman. 
With consumers increasingly resistant to paying more at the supermarket, conditioned by years of low inflation to expect stable prices on everyday items, some experts predict that other consumer product companies will soon follow suit. 
"It's the most sensible way to deal with the increased cost of production," said Gene Grabowski, a spokesman for the Grocery Manufacturers of America. "Consumers have repeatedly shown that they are more accepting of slightly smaller amounts in the package than an increase in prices."
Many consumer product companies agree that weight-outs stem from a dwindling in their ability to dictate prices. Fifty percent of manufacturers now say they are unable to pass rising costs on to consumers, compared with 40 percent in 1999, according to a survey released last month by the National Association of Purchasing Management. 
In addition to balky consumers, giant retailers like Wal-Mart are increasingly opposed to price increases. Norbert J. Ore, who directed the purchasing survey, said: "The super-size retailers look at their suppliers and say: 'The consumers are not happy when we raise prices. We're not raising prices. Now you go figure it out.' "
Some businesses find it particularly preferable to shrink portions than to charge more. Prices on Frito-Lay's nachos and chips have risen less than 1 percent annually in recent years, a rather low rate for consumer products. Raising them any faster, the company fears, would alienate some snackers.
"In our business, there are certain magical price points: 99 cents, $1.29, $2.99," said Lynn Markley, spokeswoman for Frito-Lay, a division of Pepsico. "We've learned that we need to stay within them." 
Consumer advocates argue that quietly cutting back on portion sizes is deceptive, since consumers most often cannot easily tell that the package's contents have been changed. 
"If you want to keep faith with the customers, be honest with them," said Carol Tucker Foreman, food policy director of the Consumer Federation of America. 
Unlike products that come in standard sizes -- a pint of ice cream, say, or a quart of milk -- items like pretzels or chips carry few standards indicating how heavy a bag should be. Customers are often unaware how much a bag of those products typically weighs, and so they tend to look at price instead, making it relatively easy for a manufacturer to alter the weight without leaving many obvious clues. 
"The key is to do it without the average consumer ever noticing," said John McMillin, a Prudential analyst who follows food companies. "Some consumers will be able to tell, but you'd be hurt a lot more if you changed the price. Then every consumer would notice."
While taking out an ounce here and there may seem like a nominal adjustment, it adds up quickly. Every year in the United States alone, Frito-Lay sells an estimated 2.6 billion pounds of snack food -- more than three times the weight of the Empire State Building -- and its downsizing might reduce that by tens of millions of pounds.
Although they are loath to advertise weight-outs, manufacturers are free to decide how much of their product they put into a box or a bag. As long as the weight is fairly stated on the packaging, no false advertising has occurred.
"It's a hard issue, because consumers will complain that they are not aware that the package has been downsized," said Louise Jung, a lawyer at the Federal Trade Commission. "But it's right there on the label how much is in the product." 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Shedding Ounces, Not Pennies"*Prices vary; $9.25 in New York City and on Long Island. TOSTITOS -- $3.29 for eachOLD SIZE: 14.5 ouncesNEW SIZE: 13.5 ounces HUGGIES -- $31.99 for eachOLD SIZE: 240 diapersNEW SIZE: 228 diapers POLAND SPRING -- $9.25 for each*OLD SIZE: 6 gallonsNEW SIZE: 5 gallons

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SNACK FOODS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MFG (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); DIETING (89%); DISPOSABLE DIAPERS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); SNACK FOOD MFG (78%); FOOD MFG (77%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (76%); BOTTLED WATER (76%); CHRISTMAS (73%); SUGAR & CONFECTIONERY MFG (72%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FRITO-LAY INC (58%); NESTLE SA (51%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (51%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (58%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001 



19 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Steve Strunsky

 BODY:
 NEW YORK

BRONX: PREGNANT WOMAN KILLED
A 23-year-old pregnant woman was killed in an apartment early yesterday morning, the police said. The woman, Shari Scurry, was shot in the head in the bathroom of an apartment at 15 Marcy Place in Mount Eden. Sgt. Victor Ramos, a police spokesman, said several people in the apartment at the time of the shooting were being questioned last night. He said Ms. Scurry lived at 355 East 184th Street in the Bronx. David Rohde (NYT)

BROOKLYN: FIRST POLICE SHOOTING OF NEW YEAR
Two officers wounded a 17-year-old boy early yesterday morning after he pointed a gun at them, the police said, in the first police shooting this year. The boy, Frasier Lavel, was shot in the shoulder and stomach and was in stable condition last night at Kings County Hospital Center. Sgt. Victor Ramos, a police spokesman, said two officers responded at 12:01 a.m. to a report of gunshots at 880 St. Marks Avenue in Crown Heights. When they arrived, they saw two young men firing handguns and pursued them. One of them, Mr. Lavel, pointed his gun at them and they both fired several shots at him, Sergeant Ramos said. The other young man was not apprehended. David Rohde (NYT)

RIVERHEAD: LIMITS ON CELL PHONES
People driving in Suffolk County and using cellular phones without hands-free attachments can be fined $150 under a law that took effect yesterday. Suffolk is believed to be the nation's first county to adopt such a ban. Similar bans have been approved in Marlboro Township, N.J.; Brooklyn, Ohio; and three towns in Pennsylvania. Lawmakers have cited studies suggesting that cell phones are a distraction to drivers. Emergency calls are exempt from the ban. (NYT)

MANHATTAN: HOTEL OCCUPANCY DOWN
In a sign that the national economic slowdown is affecting New York City, more hotel rooms were vacant in November than in the same month of 1999, according to data from PKF Consulting, which analyzes the city's hotel industry. Visitors filled 86.5 percent of hotel rooms in November, down from 89.8 percent a year earlier. It was the second consecutive month in which occupancy rates were lower than in 1999. Despite the recent decline, the average for all of 2000 appears likely to surpass the record 82.5 percent occupancy rate set in 1996, according to the data. Leslie Eaton (NYT)

ALBANY: PLAN TO CERTIFY COACHES
The State Board of Regents is considering a change that could result in more non-teachers working as coaches for school sports. The State Education Department recommended to the Regents that people with three years of coaching experience who complete certain courses be granted a so-called professional coaching certificate good for three years. Under the plan, which the Regents could vote on next month, such certified coaches would no longer be vulnerable to bumping by a teacher who also wanted the coaching job. About 5,300, or 20 percent, of the state's scholastic coaches are not teachers. (AP)

NEW JERSEY

EDGEWATER PARK: GUN ACCIDENT KILLS REVELER
A 42-year-old man was accidentally shot and killed early yesterday when a gun discharged while it was being handed to him in the kitchen of a house, the Burlington County prosecutor's office said. Officials said several revelers had used the gun to fire shots in the air outside the house. After the group went inside, Michael S. Holmes of Mount Laurel asked for the gun. While it was being handed to him, it went off, officials said. The investigation is continuing. (NYT)

NEWLYWED'S BODY FOUND
A man killed his wife, then confessed and told the authorities where to find her body in the Delaware Water Gap National Recreation Area in Pennsylvania, the National Park Service said. Officials found what they believed to be the body of Lori Ann Petrone-Hand, 34, of East Windsor, N.J., on Thursday. They said her husband, James Hand, 33, had confessed to the East Windsor police and state police officials from New Jersey and Pennsylvania that he had beaten his wife to death on Oct. 12 in Trenton. They were married about three months before she disappeared. (AP)

TRENTON: CALL TO SPEED PROFILING BILLS
Following calls for action on legislative proposals to ban racial profiling by the police, the State Senate president, Donald T. DiFrancesco, has asked the Senate Judiciary Committee to speed its review. One of the bills would prohibit officers from using race or skin color to decide which cars to stop, even in conjunction with other factors. Another would create a civilian review board for complaints against state troopers. "We were way out front with some stark admissions, but now we lag with respect to addressing the problems," said Assemblyman LeRoy J. Jones Jr., above, an East Orange Democrat and a member of the Legislature's Black and Latino Caucus. (AP)

EGG HARBOR TOWNSHIP: TWINS DIE IN FIRE
Officials were still trying yesterday to determine the cause of a fire Sunday that killed 2-year-old twin boys and injured their mother and grandmother. The grandmother, Patricia Brennan, 58, was in critical condition yesterday at Crozer-Chester Medical Center in Upland, Pa. The twins were identified as Joseph Cann and Charles Cann III. Their mother, Tara Cann, 30, suffered minor injuries while trying to rescue them, the police said. (AP)

CONNECTICUT

HARTFORD: PARTY GUEST DIES
A 21-year-old woman died early yesterday after passing out at a New Year's Eve party where she had had several different kinds of alcohol, the police said. The woman, Nicole Roberts, was taken to the St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center emergency room shortly after 2 a.m. yesterday and pronounced dead less than an hour later, the police said. The official cause of death had not been determined yesterday, officials said. (AP)

HARTFORD: LOW-COST INSURANCE EXPANDED
A state program to provide low-cost and free health insurance to poor children has been expanded to include their parents and caregivers. The Health Care for Uninsured Kids and Youth program covers uninsured children in families with incomes up to 185 percent of the federal poverty level. Starting today, parents and caregivers in homes with incomes up to 150 percent of the poverty level are eligible. (AP)

CORRECTION-DATE: January 4, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Metro Briefing column on Tuesday about a teenager who the police said was wounded by officers in Brooklyn after he pointed a gun misspelled his given name in some copies. He is Frasier Lavel, not Frazier.

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (86%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (86%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (85%); HEAD INJURIES (77%); FIREARMS (76%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (70%); APPROVALS (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); LODGING (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (63%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001 



20 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
SHUFORD, ADRIAN LAFAYETTE JR.

 BODY:
 SHUFORD-Adrian Lafayette Jr., 90, industrialist and philanthropist, died Saturday. A former NC State senator, county commission chairman and town mayor, his career in the manufacture of socks, gloves, and abrasive equipment spanned most of the 20th century. Shuford, who maintained a residence in Manhattan, was a supporter of the performing arts in New York City. He was married to international concert pianist Dorothy Lewis-Griffith, who survives. A memorial service will be conducted Wednesday at 11 A.M. at Trinity United Church of Christ in Conover. A private interment was held today at Conover City Cemetery. Before his death Shuford had designated that memorials in his honor should be directed to Trinity United Church of Christ, 217 Second Avenue NE, Conover, NC 28613; The YMCA of Catawba Valley, PO Box 280, Conover, N.C. 28613; or Catawba College, 2300 West Innes Street, Salisbury, NC 28144. Shuford became a statewide figure of prominence in North Carolina while serving as a state senator. A life-long Democrat, he was elected to two terms in the Senate in the 1960's. During that period he was chairman of the Committee on Higher Education and helped spearhead the expansion of the University of North Carolina system. On Monday, NC Governor Jim Hunt issued a tribute to Shuford when he learned of his passing: "I am sad to learn of the death of my friend Adrian Shuford. Senator Shuford was an exceptional leader of North Carolina and a true gentleman. 
Much of North Carolina's progress today in education and economic development has come because of his leadership in the state Senate. I am grateful for his life and extend my deepest sympathy to his family." Shuford served as mayor of Conover and as chairman of the Catawba County (NC) Board of Commissioners. At the time of his death he was trustee emeritus of Catawba College in Salisbury, NC. First elected to the Board of Trustees in 1944, he served as secretary of that board and was its chairman 26 years, from 1951 to 1977. Catawba College honored him with a Doctor of Humanitarian Service degree. In addition, the performing arts center on that campus was named from him and his wife. In his native community Shuford was honored in 1999 by the City of Conover by the establishment of the Adrian L. Shuford Jr. Conover Citizenship Award. He was cited for his contributions toward creation of the municipality's downtown park and town center. Shuford was the instigator of the founding of what is today the YMCA of Catawba Valley. He gave the property that is the site of the Adrian L. Shuford, Jr. YMCA Conover branch, established the endowment fund and was the first president of the YMCA. Educated at Cornell University and UNC-Chapel Hill, he returned to Conover in 1932 to become associated with the textile industry as president of Conover Knitting Mill and secretary of Warlong Glove Company, family businesses. Later he was a director of Riegel Textile Corporation and was a director of the Southern Hosiery Manufacturers Association and chairman of the National Association of Hosiery Manufacturers. While a young man Shuford was associated with Conover's first bank, Citizens Bank. He became president of Shuford National Bank and was a director of First National Bank of Catawba County and First Union. During World War II he was a Navy lieutenant, 1943-45. In 1959 he established Jackson Buff Corporation, which manufactured buffing and abrasive equipment, by buying several buffing equipment businesses around the country and moving them to Conover. The Rev. Dr. Arthur Caliandro of Marble Collegiate Church in New York City wrote Mrs. Shuford several weeks ago to inquire about her husband's health and declared: "I have never met a more gentle, humble or sweeter human being. He is a very dear man, truly a beautiful soul." His first wife was the late Dorothy Cilley Shuford, who died in 1984. In addition to his second wife, he is survived by a son, Adrian L. Shuford, III of Newton, NC; a daughter, Dorothy Anna Shuford of Newton, NC; three sisters, Betty S. Yount of Winston-Salem, NC; Mary S. Palmer of Ann Arbor, MI; and Annie S. McBride of Laurinburg, NC and a brother, Dr. Wade Henry Shuford of Atlanta, GA; a stepdaughter, Dorothy Griffith of Banner Elk, NC & two step-grandchildren, Cole and Locke Curtis. Drum Funeral Home and Cremation Service is serving the Shuford family. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); RELIGION (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); KNIT FABRIC MILLS (73%); APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (73%); HOSIERY & SOCK MILLS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (71%); TEXTILES (60%); TEXTILE MILLS (60%); CEMETERIES (55%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (55%)

PERSON: SHUFORD, ADRIAN LAFAYETTE JR. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



21 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: MARKETS & INVESTING; 
Some Opportunities Are Seen in Bonds

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
"Problems create opportunities," says Frederick B. Taylor, the chief investment officer at the United States Trust Company.
 That is the rationale for his advice this year: buy the sectors of the bond market that had the worst of it last year -- investment-grade corporate bonds and high-yield, or junk, bonds -- "as long as you pick well." 
 Junk bonds had a terrible 2000, putting in their worst performance since 1990 relative to Treasuries. The return for the Merrill Lynch high-yield index is a negative 5.1 percent, or 18.5 percentage points below the return for Treasuries; that is significantly below its 13 percentage-point underperformance in 1990. The 5.1 percent decline is also the worst in the history of the Merrill index, which goes back to 1987, outdoing the 4.4 percent decline in 1990. 
For investment-grade corporate bonds it was the worst performance, relative to Treasuries, since 1981, according to Merrill Lynch's bond indexes. But in this case the underperformance was not as painful for investors because the return for corporates did rise on the year, just less than Treasuries.
Still, high-quality corporate returns, up 9.1 percent, were so far below those for Treasury notes and bonds, up 13.4 percent, that the investment-grade corporate bond market -- despite the higher yields it always offers -- lost the performance edge it has enjoyed over Treasuries since the bond debacle of 1994. The investment-grade corporate bond market now trails Treasuries in cumulative return 61.5 percent to 62.2 percent over those six years.
What happened? Concerns about slowing economic growth raised fears of corporate credit problems, especially in the telecommunications sector. Investors responded to those fears by selling, sending yields on junk bonds to double-digit levels and on high-grade corporate bonds to high single digits.
But it is this sell-off that has created the opportunity. "No one wants to own bonds," says Kathleen C. Gaffney, a corporate bond portfolio manager at Loomis Sayles & Company in Boston, a signal to many that it is a good time to buy.
With average yields of 14.2 percent on junk bonds and more than 7.3 percent on investment-grade corporates, both categories are attractive, especially at a time when the stock market is putting in its worst performance in more than two decades. But on top of this, these junk and investment-grade bonds also offer an opportunity for nice capital gains. Their prices have been driven down in some cases to levels that assume a recession. And if that proves to be a bad forecast, the prices should rally.
What has made this bet more attractive is the recent shift in thinking at the Federal Reserve, where policy makers have now signaled that they expect to cut interest rates soon, possibly as early as this month. The negative economic signs may yet get worse before they get better, but the Fed's willingness to act does suggest there is a smaller chance of a recession.
The rally in both the investment-grade and junk markets since the first indication of this policy shift on Dec. 5 shows that some investors are already jumping back into the corporate sector.
"The Fed is saying that I am not going to make this worse," said William Cunningham, the corporate bond strategist at Chase Securities. So even though there is probably more pain to come as the economy slows further, he said that "it is probably time to look at selected sectors."
These include banks and financial companies, which he said are the types of companies that usually benefit first when the Fed begins to cut rates and investors think more of rebound than recession. As for high yield, Mr. Taylor of United States Trust suggests buying a fund because that provides the diversification necessary to mitigate the negative impact from some of the companies actually defaulting on their bonds.
In the case of Treasuries, it is hard to believe that they can repeat their performance of last year, when notes and bonds returned 13.4 percent and longer-term Treasuries, with maturities of 10 years or more, returned an average of 20.2 percent, according to Merrill Lynch indexes. 
Treasuries had many things going for them: the expectation of slowing economic growth, growing government surpluses and the consequent reduction in issuance of new Treasury debt, the beginning of the actual buying back of existing Treasury debt and the expectation, confirmed by Fed policy makers at their Dec. 19 meeting, that the Fed will be cutting interest rates soon.
But, for this year, many analysts think that Treasuries have already priced in several Fed rate cuts and an economic slowdown to 2 percent or lower. The yield on the March futures contract on the Federal funds rate has plunged almost half a percentage point, to 6 percent in the last two months, signaling that many investors expect the Fed to make two quarter-point cuts in its benchmark interest rate by the end of the first quarter.
This does not mean that Treasury interest rates will not move lower this year, only that it is unlikely they will have the kind of move they experienced last year, when the yield on the 10-year note dropped to 5.10 percent from 6.44 percent and the yield on the 30-year bond plunged to 5.46 percent from 6.48 percent. At the end of the year, Treasury yields from two years to 30 years were at their lowest levels since early 1999, just after long-term rates had reached their lowest level in more than 30 years at the end of 1998.
One of the forces that accounted for much of the move in longer-term Treasuries last year will be around again this year. That is a continued decline in the issuance of new Treasury securities and the elimination of the issuance of others as the country continues to enjoy large budget surpluses. This decrease in supply only makes the securities more attractive, driving the yields even lower than economic fundamentals might justify.
This year the Treasury could stop selling new 30-year bonds. One-year Treasury bills are expected to be eliminated as soon as the new Bush Treasury can get up to full gear, and the issuance of the two-year note will be cut drastically, from monthly sales to just eight times or even four times a year.
This new diminished supply of shorter-term securities should add extra downward pressure on these Treasury rates this year.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Defying the Norm"The total return on investment-grade corporate bonds fell below that of Treasury securities last year by the biggest margin since 1981. (Source: Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); CORPORATE BONDS (91%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; CORPORATE BONDS; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); TWO THOUSAND AND ONE (YEAR); FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001 



22 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: Missing the Mark in 2000, Stocks Look for a Steadying Hand Ahead 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Wearied by a market gone haywire, investors were greatly relieved in December when Alan Greenspan went on full alert, at the ready to cut interest rates to get the economy moving in the right direction again.
 But investors must still wonder: Will Mr. Greenspan's hoped-for moves result in a swift and sturdy return to the good old days of steadily rising stock prices? 
 Many strategists say they believe that the early part of the year will be positive for stock indexes, if only because of the psychological boost a new year, a new president and Mr. Greenspan's avowed vigilance will give investors. But the jury is still out on whether the Federal Reserve Board chairman's anticipated monetary policy moves will turn around the economy -- and stock prices -- as quickly in 2001 as they have in periods of distress throughout the 1990's. 
At issue is the nature of the current economic slowdown. The decline in the stock market may well prompt consumers to rein in their spending, keeping the economy from rebounding. And immense capital expenditures by corporations in recent years, much of which was financed by free and easy capital markets, may curtail new spending, putting a recovery in that sector in doubt. Both possibilities pose for Mr. Greenspan a set of economy-related challenges that are quite different from the market-related crises he has attacked so successfully in the recent past. 
Like many strategists, Stefan Abrams, chief investment officer for asset allocation at the Company of the West, thinks that even though the economy is going to start the year quite weak, the financial markets will perform reasonably well as investors anticipate help from Mr. Greenspan on interest rates. "But somewhere in the middle of the first quarter," he said, "we're going to say 'Is the economy still deteriorating? Is the consumer still sated? And has business, through its high-tech spending, overbuilt the capital stock?' If so, then there could be cause for considerable concern because, if we need to jump-start aggregate demand, lowering interest rates may not do enough." 
For the moment, investors are happy to be rid of stock market 2000. All of the broad market indexes ended the year in negative territory, but the indexes most heavily weighted toward technology fared the worst. The Dow Jones industrial average held up the best of the three most famous gauges, losing 6.2 percent compared with a 10.1 percent decline in the Standard & Poor's 500 index and a 39.3 percent plunge in the Nasdaq composite. 
But even the devastation in the Nasdaq composite does not tell the whole painful story of 2000 in the market. Many of the stocks that had captured investors' fancies -- particularly in the Internet sector -- have lost three-quarters of their value or more. And as of Dec. 22, according to statisticians at Salomon Smith Barney, Nasdaq stocks had declined on average 54.4 percent from their 52-week highs, well below the 44.5 percent declines seen in these shares during the market crash of 1987.
Looking ahead, most individual investors seem certain Mr. Greenspan will deliver them from the stock market troubles seen in 2000. In a survey of 1,000 investors conducted late last month by Strong Funds, a mutual fund organization in Milwaukee, 42.6 percent said they believed that the stock market would rise at least 10 percent this year, while 34.8 percent said they expected it to be mostly flat. Only 20.3 percent think the market will decline by 10 percent or more. 
The main reason for this optimism is investors' faith in Mr. Greenspan. Of those surveyed, 43.3 percent said that the Fed chairman would have the greatest impact on the market in 2001, well above the 35.6 percent of investors who said that corporate profits would be the driving force in the market. And if the president-elect has any delusions about who is in charge, only 6.8 percent of those interviewed said George W. Bush would be the prime mover of stocks in 2001, below even the 7.4 percent who thought world events would have the biggest impact.
The vote of confidence in Mr. Greenspan is undoubtedly pleasing to him and certainly well earned, as he has helped guide the economy to an expansion that last year became the nation's longest. But the expansion now appears to be fading, and it will take more than just a few waves of his magic wand to restore the glow to the nation's economy and its stocks. Economists estimate, for example, that roughly a year must pass before interest rate cuts work their way fully into the economy.
"An expeditious easing of monetary policy is necessary if the U.S. is to remain safely distanced from recession in the early part of the year," said John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service. He estimated that the federal funds rate would have to fall to 5.75 percent, from the current 6.25 percent, before lenders would become less risk-averse and begin providing borrowers with funds again. 
Adding to the complexity of the Fed's task is the increasingly significant role that the stock market has played in recent years among consumers. In the third quarter of 2000, stocks held by individuals, private pension funds and state and local government retirement funds accounted for 61 percent of all financial assets owned in those quarters, according to Safian Investment Research in White Plains. Ten years earlier, stocks made up just 31 percent of all financial assets held by those individuals and institutions.
Because so many more Americans took up stock investing in the 1990's, the market's rise contributed to a strong economy. As stock prices soared, consumers felt wealthier, if only on paper. Many expanded their houses, bought second homes or purchased new cars, dishwashers and clothing. Manufacturers of those goods scrambled to meet demand. 
Now that stock prices have plummeted, consumers may will ration their spending and perhaps even save some of their money, keeping economic growth in the doldrums. "The consumer is usually the last to slow down," said Lorraine T. Corbett, vice president at Safian Investment Research. "Once the consumer starts to pull back, that's when things start to decline." 
Consumers certainly have reason to retrench. According to researchers at International Strategy and Investment in New York, investors have lost $3 trillion in market value since stocks peaked in March, a sum equal to one-third of the country's nominal gross domestic product. 
What would really begin to worry Ms. Corbett and other economists is a change in the employment picture, with large numbers of workers being laid off. "If the job market stays where it is, you may not see a severe slowdown," Ms. Corbett said. "People may cut back a little bit because they want to wait and see what happens. But, if they're fearful of losing their jobs, that's something else."
Mr. Lonski echoed that view. "What worries me is how a declining equity market coupled with a slowdown in corporate profitability will affect hiring activity," he said. "If earnings slow significantly while stock prices are falling sharply, companies have all the more reason to downsize. Then it may be difficult to avoid a recession."
Although most economists expect economic growth simply to slow this year, some strategists wonder whether stocks are signaling a recession. Travails in the stock market are not always accurate in telling the economic future, but during the last four recessions, according to I.S.I., declines in the stock market preceded drops in gross domestic product. 
During the severe bear market of 1974, for example, the S.& P. fell 48.2 percent from peak to trough; in the recession that began in the middle of that decline, economic output fell 3.4 percent. In 1980, the S.& P. 500 fell 17.1 percent and the recession that year shaved 2.2 percent off G.D.P. That was a mild recession, but equity investors had sniffed it out. 
Judging from the past, if stocks have already bottomed, with the S.& P. 500 off 13.6 percent at year-end from its March peak, any downturn in the nation's economy could prove to be fleeting. But many strategists say they think that the early months of 2001 will be unsettling in the economy and that the elements for an acceleration in growth -- including hefty bonuses and big tax refunds -- are not in place this year. This suggests that the stock market may not make a big rebound. 
Investors may take a wait-and-see attitude because it is not yet clear just what kind of slowdown is unfolding. In recent years, Mr. Abrams argued, recessions have been a result of modest inventory bulges that were quickly worked off. More worrisome would be a slowdown based on extreme levels of overcapacity among the nation's manufacturers. That could result in a much deeper, more prolonged downturn.
"If we are not going through a short-term cycle caused largely by inventory but if, in fact, we've entered a capital bust, then the Fed is not going to be so powerful," Mr. Abrams said. 
Capital expenditures in information technology, he noted, now amount to 8 percent of gross domestic product and have been adding two percentage points or more to the nation's economic growth. Recently, Mr. Abrams said, growth in new orders in the United States has dropped to zero. And if that does not improve soon, he added, the slump is going to be longer and deeper than people expect. What's more, lower interest rates won't help right away.
"It's not just a question of clearing a few Jeep Cherokees off the lot," he said. "The Fed can't just snap its fingers. It's going to take longer to take it through." 
What kind of a stock market will investors encounter if the Fed's moves indeed prove to be less potent this year? In one repect, the market should look familiar: only those companies with solid earnings will perform well. Former tech glamour stocks, if they have no earnings, will continue to lose ground.
David Sowerby, portfolio manager at Loomis, Sayles & Company, said: "If I were to describe the stock market in 2001 in one word, it would be 'balanced.' As in years past, good stocks with good fundamentals and good earnings will go up." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders at the New York Stock Exchange wrap up a dismal year. (Spencer Platt for The New York Times)(pg. C4) Drawing (Noah Woods) Graphs: "The Slide in 2000"Graph tracks Nasdaq, S. & P. 500 and Dow since Jan.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) "A Rough and Tumble Year"In 2000, the Nasdaq composite suffered its worst and most volatile year since its debut in 1971. The index ended the year off 39.3 percent, after moving up or down at least one percent on 75 percent of the trading days. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 10.1 percent for its worst showing since 1977, with its volatility the highest since 1974. Graph tracks Performance and Volatility since 1971. *Index began Feb. 5, 1971.(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets, Standard & Poor's)(pg. C4) Chart: "STOCK MARKETS IN 2000" Market index: Dow Jones industrials2000 close -- 10,786.85Percent change in year -- -6.2 Market index: Dow Jones transportation2000 close -- 2,946.60Percent change in year -- -1.0 Market index: Dow Jones utilities2000 close -- 412.16Percent change in year -- +45.5 Market index: S.&P. 5002000 close -- 1,320.28Percent change in year -- -10.1 Market index: S.&P. financials2000 close -- 164.72Percent change in year -- +23.8 Market index: S.&P. industrials2000 close -- 1,524.79Percent change in year -- -17.2 Market index: N.Y.S.E. composite2000 close -- 656.87Percent change in year -- +1.0 Market index: Nasdaq composite2000 close -- 2,470.52Percent change in year -- -39.3 Market index: Nasdaq 1002000 close -- 2,341.70Percent change in year -- -36.8 Market index: Nasdaq computers2000 close -- 1,294.97Percent change in year -- -44.3 Market index: Nasdaq telecommunications2000 close -- 463.44Percent change in year -- -54.4 Market index: Russell 2,0002000 close -- 483.53Percent change in year -- -4.2 Market index: Wilshire 5,0002000 close -- 12,175.88Percent change in year -- -11.9 Market index: Amex composite2000 close -- 897.75Percent change in year -- +2.4 Market index: Internet (Street.com)2000 close -- 300.63Percent change in year -- -74.0 Market index: Oil (Amex)2000 close -- 536.25Percent change in year -- +6.6 Market index: Biotech (Amex)2000 close -- 170.21Percent change in year -- +19.0 Market index: Banks (KBW)2000 close -- 901.42Percent change in year -- +17.1 Market index: Semiconductors (Phila.)2000 close -- 576.61Percent change in year -- -18.2 INTEREST RATES IN 2000 Interest rate: U.S. 3-mo. Treasury2000 close -- 5.89Change in points -- +0.56 Interest rate: U.S. 10-yr. Treasury2000 close -- 5.10Change in points -- -1.34 Interest rate: U.S. AA-corporates2000 close -- 6.62Change in points -- -0.73 Interest rate: U.S. BBB-corporates2000 close -- 8.01Change in points -- -0.07 Interest rate: U.S. high-yield corporates2000 close -- 14.04Change in points -- +3.02 Interest rate: JAPAN 10-yr. Govt.2000 close -- 1.65Change in points -- -0.03 Interest rate: GERMANY 10-yr. Govt.2000 close -- 4.85Change in points -- -0.51 Interest rate: BRITAIN 10-yr. Govt.2000 close -- 4.88Change in points -- -0.53 CURRENCIES IN 2000 Units to the dollar: EURO2000 close -- 1.0608Change against the dollar -- -6.3 Units to the dollar: JAPANESE yen2000 close -- 114.41Change against the dollar -- -10.4 Units to the dollar: BRITISH pound2000 close -- 0.6698Change against the dollar -- -7.7 Units to the dollar: CANADIAN dollar2000 close -- 1.4991Change against the dollar -- -3.5 Units to the dollar: MEXICAN peso2000 close -- 9.6225Change against the dollar -- -1.2 Units to the dollar: BRAZILIAN real2000 close -- 1.95Change against the dollar -- -7.7 Units to the dollar: SOUTH KOREAN won2000 close -- 1,265Change against the dollar -- -9.9 COMMODITIES IN 2000 Near-month contract: CRUDE OIL (barrel)2000 close -- $26.80Percent change in year -- +4.7 Near-month contract: NATURAL GAS (million B.T.U.)2000 close -- $9.78Percent change in year -- +319.7 Near-month contract: HEATING OIL (gallon)2000 close -- $0.9066Percent change in year -- +31.3 Near-month contract: GOLD (ounce)2000 close -- $273.60Percent change in year -- -5.5 Near-month contract: SILVER (ounce)2000 close -- $4.64Percent change in year -- -15.0 Near-month contract: PLATINUM (ounce)2000 close -- $609.60Percent change in year -- +41.7 Near-month contract: PALLADIUM (ounce)2000 close -- $954.45Percent change in year -- +112.5 Near-month contract: COPPER (pound)2000 close -- $0.847Percent change in year -- -0.7 Near-month contract: LUMBER (1,000 bd. feet)2000 close -- $205.50Percent change in year -- -41.1 Near-month contract: SOYBEAN (bushel)2000 close -- $4.995Percent change in year -- +8.2 Near-month contract: CORN (bushel)2000 close -- $2.248Percent change in year -- +9.9 Near-month contract: WHEAT (bushel)2000 close -- $2.795Percent change in year -- +12.5 Near-month contract: SUGAR, WORLD (pound)2000 close -- $0.102Percent change in year -- +66.7 Near-month contract: COFFEE (pound)2000 close -- $0.6555Percent change in year -- -47.9 Near-month contract: COCOA (ton)2000 close -- Percent$758 change in year -- -9.4 Near-month contract: ORANGE JUICE (pound)2000 close -- $0.746Percent change in year -- -16.1 Near-month contract: LIVE CATTLE (pound)2000 close -- $0.77925Percent change in year -- +12.0 Near-month contract: LEAN HOGS (pound)2000 close -- $0.56825Percent change in year -- +4.3 Near-month contract: COTTON (pound)2000 close -- $0.6228Percent change in year -- +22.7 (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets, Merrill Lynch indexes (U.S. corporate bond rates))(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%) STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001 



23 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: The Surplus and the Tax Cut 

 BODY:
The Clinton administration released projections last week showing that the estimated federal surplus will hit $5 trillion over the next 10 years, almost $1 trillion more than previously expected. Supporters of President-elect George W. Bush say that the bigger surplus now expected will provide the wherewithal to pass Mr. Bush's proposed $1.9 trillion tax cut, which the Bush team believes is needed to spur an economy that is slowing down. But a careful look at the numbers shows that the Bush plan remains a bad fiscal idea. 
 Start with the fact that $2.5 trillion of the projected surplus comes from Social Security and another $500 billion or so comes from Medicare. Both pots of money are essentially off limits. Congress appears committed to using the extra money from these programs to pay down the federal debt -- a use that does not affect the solvency of either program but does improve the overall health of the future economy. So that leaves only about $2 trillion of the projected $5 trillion surplus for tax cuts and new government spending. 
 But fiscal matters are not nearly as rosy as the new estimates suggest. The White House projections assume that federal programs other than Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid will not expand over the next decade. That is unrealistic. The cost of making likely additions to defense capabilities and to some domestic programs and of preserving popular tax credits that are scheduled to expire would eat up an additional $600 billion or more out of the surplus. That would leave only $1.4 trillion available for tax cuts and all other spending increases. 
Mr. Bush's overly generous tax cut plan would wipe out virtually the entire remaining surplus. That would leave him no money to help, as he has promised, low-income families buy health insurance -- which could cost $600 billion over 10 years -- or to add prescription drugs to Medicare, which could cost $200 billion over 10 years. 
Beyond fiscal feasibility, supporters of Mr. Bush argue that a big tax cut is needed to spur an economy that, they say, may be flirting with recession. This argument, too, is weak. Tax policy is rarely used to offset the ups and downs of a modern economy because it is too hard to time the impact of a tax cut. 
Congress would probably not pass a major tax cut bill until the fall, and consumers would likely not respond for many months thereafter. It could be well more than a year before any significant increase in consumer spending kicked in, and by that time the economic slowdown the tax cut sought to reverse might already be long past. Most economists look to monetary policy, which can be changed rapidly and often by the Federal Reserve, to keep the economy on an even keel.
The Bush plan is the wrong economic elixir. But a smaller, targeted tax cut could indeed make sense. Rather than awarding the bulk of tax cuts to the wealthy, as the Bush plan would do, the better idea is to focus tax cuts on low-income families, those whose earnings have slipped during most of the last 30 years. 
Congress could provide a tax credit to offset the cost of health insurance, for example. It could use tax credits to offset the impact of payroll taxes, which hit poor families proportionately harder than wealthy families. Modest tax cuts targeted in this way would make a fine use of any unclaimed federal revenues. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); FAMILY (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); MEDICAID (54%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2001 



24 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Singapore Shows Strong Growth 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
Singapore continues to stave off predictions that slowing demand for electronics in the United States will crimp its economic growth.
 The Ministry of Trade and Industry issued preliminary figures today estimating that Singapore's economy expanded 10.1 percent last year, with growth in the last three months of the year beating the government's own expectations. 
 Demand for electronics remained strong in 2000, the ministry said, but it forecast that growth this year would slow to 5 percent to 7 percent.
Singapore and countries across Asia are bracing for faltering growth in the United States, which would reduce demand for the region's exports. Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing, a leading maker of custom chips, said recently that it might cut its forecast for 2001 sales and profits, after the Dell Computer Corporation and I.B.M. said that they expected sales growth to moderate.
Sales growth is expected to slow further in the first quarter, Tan Tzu Ping, an economist with J. P. Morgan & Company, told Bloomberg News. "Manufacturing will decline through the first half of 2001, even as services output plateaus."
Underscoring the prospects of slower global demand, export growth in November was 8.1 percent, half what it was a year earlier. Growth was 16.3 percent in October and 11.7 percent in September.
Singapore's goods-producing industries, which include manufacturing and construction, grew 12.4 percent in the fourth quarter from a year ago, compared with 11.4 percent in the third period. The sector accounts for about one-quarter of gross domestic product. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: DELL INC (69%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (69%); CHARTERED SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING LTD (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (69%); JPM (NYSE) (69%); JPM (LSE) (69%); 8634 (TSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%) SINGAPORE

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



25 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
In 2000, fewer companies paid dividends to investors and more of the same lies ahead.

BYLINE:  By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
DIVIDENDS on stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 fell 2.5 percent last year, making it the first decline in nearly a decade and the first one ever that could not easily be explained by economic factors or government regulations. It was the largest decline in nearly half a century.
 The decline reflected both economic problems for some companies and the fact that many companies in recent years have chosen not to pay dividends, largely on the theory that investors are interested more in capital gains than in income from dividend payments. 
 "Each year the number of companies in the S.& P. 500 not paying dividends grows," said Arnold Kaufman, the editor of S.& P.'s Outlook newsletter, which released the figures. 
At the end of last year, 372 of the 500 companies in the index, the major index of large stocks in the American market, paid dividends. That was down from 402 a year earlier and 418 at the end of 1998. Most of the decline came from the fact that companies leaving the index, often because they were acquired by other companies, usually paid dividends while their replacements often did not.
Still, until last year, the overall dividends paid by America's largest companies had risen each year since the recession year of 1991. The decline in 2000 provided evidence that more companies are running low on cash despite the long-running economic expansion. In recent weeks, companies like AT&T, First Union and Xerox have announced cuts in their dividends.
In addition, notes Greg Jensen of Bridgewater Associates, a money-management firm, the number of companies announcing plans to buy back their own shares has fallen during the last several months, as have plans for takeovers to be paid in cash.
Until last year, investors seemed to not value dividends very much. In both 1998 and 1999, reported Howard Silverblatt of Standard & Poor's, nonpayers in the index rose far more rapidly than those that paid dividends. But last year, when the S.& P. 500 fell 10.1 percent, the entire decline was caused by falls in the nondividend paying stocks, while the average stock that paid dividends rose 15.7 percent.
The decline of 2.5 percent in dividends paid by companies in the S.& P. 500 was the first decrease since a drop of 1 percent in 1991, when the most recent recession ended and when the operating profits of companies in the S.& P. 500 fell 14.8 percent. By contrast, S.& P. estimates that operating profits rose 10.8 percent in 2000, which was lower than the 16.8 percent gain registered in 1999 but well above the increases of the previous three years, when dividends were rising.
The last time dividends on the S.& P. 500 fell by more than they did last year was in 1951, when they fell 4.1 percent while profits were plunging 14 percent.
The S.& P. index, which dates back to 1928, has had declines in dividends in only 10 previous years -- 1931, 1932, 1933, 1938, 1942, 1951, 1958, 1970, 1971 and 1991. In each of them, save for 1971, the economy was in recession for at least part of the year, or corporate profits plunged, or both. In 1971, dividend increases were held down by provisions of President Richard M. Nixon's wage-price controls.
The chances for another decline in dividends this year appear to be good, whether or not the economy goes into a recession. By the end of last year, the indicated dividend rate -- that is, the amount that would be paid in 2001 if no companies in the index raised or reduced their payouts -- was 2.2 percent below the amount that was actually paid in 2000. Thus it would take dividend increases of at least that amount to preserve the overall 2000 payout figure.
Over all last year, including all companies in the United States stock market, S.& P. counted 1,496 dividend increase announcements, down 12 percent from 1999 and the lowest for any year since 1992. 
Nonetheless, reductions or omissions of dividends remain uncommon, in large part because investors often react angrily to announcements of such moves.
S.& P. counted 77 announcements of dividend cuts in 2000, up 24 percent from the year before. But it said the 60 announcements of dividend eliminations were 27 percent less than in 1999.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Profits Up, Dividends Down"Stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 paid less in dividends in 2000 than in the previous year, despite an increase in profits. Earnings increase for 2000 is estimated. Earnings figures since 1989 are on operating profits. Figures for earlier years are based on total profits. Graph shows CHANGE IN PROFITS DIVIDENDS.(Source: Standard & Poor's) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); DIVIDENDS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BONDS (78%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (85%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



26 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO GAINS. The dollar fell after a weaker-than-expected manufacturing report fed expectations that the economy will slow more than Europe's. In New York, the euro settled at 95.03 cents, up from 94.18 on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since July 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); TRENDS (87%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



27 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: THE NEEDIEST CASES; 
Contributors Pass Along Their Own Good Fortune

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund has received nearly $870,000 more in contributions than it had by this point last year. If donations continue to flow in at the rate they did last year, the fund will have been given more money than in any other year in its 89-year history.
 There are still two months to go before the annual appeal ends, on the last day of February. 
 During the current appeal, the fund, which supports seven of New York's oldest and most respected charities, has received $4,884,782.59 from readers of The Times and the trusts, foundations and estates that they manage. At an equivalent point last year, the fund had received $4,015,217.81. The highest final total was $6,701,122.57, given during the 1998-99 appeal. 
Many readers send short notes along with their donations.
"Up until last week I was reading the letters, but last week the volume became so great that we hired an intern to do it," said Kyung Park, the New York Times accountant who keeps track of gifts to the fund. "A lot of people felt they are very blessed, economically, and a lot of them say they wish they could give more."
The fund has grown in part because of many large gifts from readers. So far in the current appeal, the fund has received 572 gifts of $1,000 or more, many from trusts and foundations, but many from individuals.
"I earn more money than I need to to buy food and pay my mortgage," said a 34-year-old investment banker who lives on the Upper East Side and gave $1,500 on Nov. 24. He spoke on the condition that his name not be used. "I consider it an obligation to give money to people who can't provide their children with a meal, or don't have any place to live, or who are sick and can't pay their medical expenses."
Another Upper East Sider, William W. Donnell, gave $1,000 on Nov. 26, and included a note: "Thank you for your continued efforts in reaching out to the least fortunate."
On Dec. 2, Julia W. Stern, a humanities professor at Western Connecticut State University, gave $1,000 in memory of her mother, Alexandra Werner. Mrs. Werner died in 1997 at the age of 97, after more than 50 years of giving -- and encouraging others to give -- to the Neediest Cases Fund.
"When I was 5, she started me in on the Neediest Cases," recalled Mrs. Stern, who grew up in the South Bronx but now lives in Newtown, Conn. "She would tell me at Christmas time that rather than asking for things, I should be giving."
And while officials at the fund and at the seven New York charities that it supports are grateful for the large contributions, they said they are also pleased when someone makes a smaller donation.
"We're mightily pleased at the record pace of contributions this year, but what's even more satisfying is that the number of donors has gone up by 11 percent," said Jack Rosenthal, president of The New York Times Company Foundation, which administers the Neediest Cases Fund.
Wan Tisnower, who came to the United States in 1969 from Thailand, gave $300 on Oct. 18, along with a note that said, "Please use this fund to help the neediest person."
Dr. Tisnower, who runs a day care center in Philadelphia, worked in a Chicago plastic factory for $1.60 an hour when she first came to the United States. She said she was inspired to give after reading an article in January 1999 about a Mexican immigrant in Queens who had to give back a borrowed sewing machine. The Neediest Cases Fund paid for a new sewing machine for the woman, who was then able to continue running her small business.
"I read it and I was impressed," Dr. Tisnower said. "I was an immigrant myself, and I know that it's hard to come here for the first time."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of the Qpass digital commerce service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest. Online donors receive a free trial subscription to the crossword puzzle of The New York Times on the Web.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $4,655,728.95
Recorded yesterday: 229,053.64
Total: 4,884,782.59
Last year to date: 4,015,217.81

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); CHRISTMAS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND 

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



28 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT: The Power of a Familiar Face; 
Ex-Executives Come Back to Fix Troubled Companies

BYLINE:  By JULIE FLAHERTY 

DATELINE: WESTBORO, Mass. 

 BODY:
Striding toward the elevators on the way to his office, Peter Gyenes does a double take and stops to straighten a plaque on the wall. No, he is not a perfectionist, he says. His operating principle is closer to something he read on a poster that his daughters gave him: "If something can go wrong, fix it. Murphy's Law doesn't apply here."
 Something did go wrong here. This used to be the headquarters of Ardent Software, and Mr. Gyenes was chief executive. Then, in December 1999, he announced the sale of Ardent to Informix, a California maker of database software, for $1.1 billion in Informix stock. 
 No sooner had he started making plans for an early retirement of traveling and serving on several corporate boards, however, than Informix's fortunes took a turn for the worse. Revenue in the first two quarters of 2000 declined, earnings faltered and the stock skidded to $2.63 from a high of $21.25. The value of the 250,000 shares he owned fell to $657,500 from about $5.31 million and the potential payoff of his 1.5 million options was threatened. Last July, Informix ousted its chief executive, Jean-Yves Dexmier, and asked Mr. Gyenes (pronounced GAN-esh) to take his place. 
Suddenly, he was back in his old corner office, going from the role of lame-duck executive of a company with $49 million in annual revenue to a man expected to fix one five times that size. He is now six months into his new job, with a mission to comfort Wall Street, lift employee morale and save his own shares of Informix from turning into worthless paper.
Mr. Gyenes has some illustrious company in making this particular executive journey. Corporate boards have grown increasingly impatient of late with chief executives who fall below expectations, as the sudden departures of M. Douglas Ivester from Coca-Cola and Michael C. Hawley from Gillette illustrated. Yet finding seasoned managers who are up to the job of succeeding them can be difficult. An obvious candidate, corporate governance experts say, is the person who ran a business the company recently acquired.
That is what Cabletron Systems did when it replaced its chief executive in 1999 with the former head of Yago Systems, a company it had acquired the year before. And that is what Bank One did, also in 1999, when it found an emergency replacement for John B. McCoy, the man who engineered the bank's purchase of First Chicago NBD a year earlier. It named First Chicago's former chief executive, Verne G. Istock, as interim chief executive, and after a permanent chief was named, he remained as president. Like those companies, Informix "didn't have to go find a devil they didn't know," said Robert Kenzer, chairman of the Kenzer Corporation, an executive recruiter. After all, Mr. Kenzer said, Informix was paying not only for the company, but the expertise that came with it. "They paid a billion bucks for this devil," he said. "It makes sense."
Or as Mr. Gyenes put it: "I was there. I'm the profile of a C.E.O., and I was sitting right there, and I didn't have a job."
After signing over Ardent in March, Mr. Gyenes stayed as a new member of the Informix board and witnessed firsthand the disaster in the making. Les Denend, an Informix board member since 1998, said that he and other directors felt they had little choice but to ask for Mr. Dexmier's resignation within days of the disclosure of the company's second-quarter results.
While he called Mr. Dexmier a hard worker and smart strategist who put in "unbelievable amounts of time," the board concluded that he did not have the experience of putting theory into practice, Mr. Denend said. Mr. Gyenes, on the other hand, had already steered Ardent through various mergers.
And his fellow board members did not have to twist his arm. "I have probably a bigger stake in this than anybody else sitting around the table there," he said. "But you know, more than that, I have a sense of responsibility for this whole thing."
Robert Tholemeier, an analyst with First Security Van Kasper in San Francisco, said he thought ownership was the key. "If he had no stock, he wouldn't have felt nearly as responsible as he does now," Mr. Tholemeier said. "Nothing like looking at your own personal wealth to make you feel responsible."
But perhaps it is just as well. Mr. Gyenes's colleagues, citing his penchant for firing off e-mail messages at 4 a.m. and calling them on weekends, said retirement would not have fit his temperament anyway. He himself acknowledges that the last time he took two weeks off was on his honeymoon 30 years ago. And a vacation to Israel soon after he joined Informix turned into a string of meetings with Informix representatives in the Middle East and long-distance cell-phone calls to the United States.
When he stepped back into the fray last summer, he found an acquisition nightmare. Combining Ardent and Informix was supposed to give customers a single source for databases and the software to interpret the data they garnered. But customers were unsure whether they could use one without the other, and confusion seemed to be the word of the day.
So Mr. Gyenes embarked on a world tour, meeting with customers and employees to discuss what was happening. It was the customers who pointed out that his own sales representatives were low on morale and wanted to quit.
"They said, 'You guys have got to get your act together as a company,' " he recalled.
Mr. Gyenes, 55, says he thinks he can do that with some straight talk, a skill he learned in part from his family. He was born in Hungary, but at age 9 moved to New York City, where his father, who spoke no English, started a textile import business. His brother took a job pushing carts in the garment district so that he could translate between his father and his American business associates as they haggled in the streets.
He worked his way through Columbia, where he earned a bachelor's degree in mathematics and then an M.B.A. His first job was as a computer operator overseeing some of the room-size machines used at I.B.M.
After a series of management positions in the United States and Europe, Mr. Gyenes was hired by Vmark Software in Massachusetts in 1966 as chief executive with a mission to help it expand. He sought out Vmark's primary competitor, a private company, and quickly arranged to meet with its owner to talk about a merger of equals.
"I made him like me," Mr. Gyenes said, achieving the crucial first step to any acquisition. Within two years, he had bought not only that company but three others and had given Vmark the new name of Ardent.
"We kept reloading the gun fast," said Charles Kane, a member of the Vmark management team. While acquisitions are "never smooth sailing," Mr. Kane said, he and Mr. Gyenes developed a plan of action that seemed to work. "The thing is to make the decisions and don't sit on them," he said. "When we made choices on people to stay or leave the company, we did it up front, so when they came together we were ready to execute right away, not waiting until the first quarter to end."
One of Mr. Gyenes's first strikes at Informix was consolidating the financial and administrative departments and streamlining the sales force, eliminating more than 400 positions in the process, or about a tenth of the total. He calls the reorganization a process of being "ruthlessly focused."
Another big change was moving the Informix corporate headquarters from Menlo Park, Calif., to the old Ardent office building in Westboro. But because Mr. Gyenes had persuaded some key former Ardent executives to stick with their posts, most of the management team was on the East Coast anyway.
The headquarters site was less of an issue, Mr. Denend said, but "the culture needed a little shaking up."
The severest jostle is still to come. Having helped engineer the splicing together of Ardent and Informix, Mr. Gyenes is now focused on splitting them apart again, this time along different lines. He plans to carve out a new company, as yet unnamed, that would help companies make use of their data warehouses.
Drew Brosseau, an analyst with SG Cowen, likes the plan. "They are taking an intelligent strategy to try to solve a difficult problem," he said.
Still, analysts say that Informix's problems go much deeper than its merger woes. In 1997, accounting irregularities led to lawsuits and an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. In January 2000, Informix agreed to settle with the S.E.C., without admitting or denying the commission's findings. Poor leadership and marketing strategy accelerated a downturn, said Mr. Tholemeier, the analyst.
"It's been a three-year disaster," he said. "I don't think the merger really was a major contribution."
The largest cloud that continues to hover over Informix is competition -- it is a distant second to the industry leader Oracle -- in a data-warehousing field that has matured and an economy that is softening.
"At some level, they don't have a lot of choices," Mr. Brosseau said. "They are a second-tier player in a business with big, strong competitors."
The market remains skeptical. Informix stock closed on Jan. 2 at $3.19, only 56 cents above its low. "They frankly have to start to show some momentum over the next six months or so," Mr. Brosseau said. "Otherwise, it's going to get that much harder."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Wednesday about former executives who return to fix troubled companies misstated the date Peter Gyenes joined Vmark Software as chief executive. It was 1996, not 1966. A picture caption misidentified the man shown with Mr. Gyenes. He was Jim Foy, president of Informix's database company, not Peter Fiore, president of the parent. 
The article also misstated the revenue of Ardent Software before it was bought by Informix. The figure was $160 million for the year; $49 million was for the fourth quarter.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After Informix reported weak results, its chief executive was quickly replaced by Peter Gyenes, right, who had run a company it acquired. Mr. Gyenes recently met with Peter Fiore, president of Informix Business Solutions. (Jared Leeds for The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: "Out of the Bullpen"Many chief executives who agree to a takeover by a larger company expect to spend some time taking it easy. But lately a number of them have been recruited to return to run the larger company. VERNE G. ISTOCK -- First Chicago NBD was sold to Bank One in 1998. He was asked to become interim chief of Bank One in 1999. JOHN KELLEY -- Upshot, which he founded, was sold to Ha-Lo Industries in 1998. He became president and chief executive of Ha-Lo in 1999. PIYUSH PATEL -- Yago Systems was sold to Cabletron in 1998. He was made chief executive of Cabletron in 1999. MITCHELL KERTZMAN -- Powersoft was sold to Sybase in 1994. He was asked to lead Sybase in 1996 and hired his own replacement in 1998. (pg. C1) Chart: "Hoping for a Comeback"Informix, a distant second to Oracle in the database software business, is struggling to restore its credibility on Wall Street after a number of management problems that recently led to the replacement of Jean-Yves Dexmier as chief executive. APRIL 1997 -- Informix says it will post a loss for the first quarter. Shareholders file a suit saying the company consistently inflated earnings. DECEMBER 1999 -- Peter Gyenes sells Ardent to Informix for $1.1 billion in stock. JULY 2000 -- Informix hires Mr. Gyenes as chief executive.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (88%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (70%); EARLY RETIREMENT (69%); WORKPLACE MORALE (63%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (62%); COCA-COLA CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CABLETRON SYSTEMS INC; YAGO SYSTEMS; BANK ONE CORP; FIRST CHICAGO NBD CORP; INFORMIX CORP; UPSHOT; HA-LO INDUSTRIES INC; POWERSOFT (CO); SYBASE CO 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (62%); JPM (LSE) (62%); 8634 (TSE) (62%); KO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (62%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: FLAHERTY, JULIE; PATEL, PIYUSH; MCCOY, JOHN B; ISTOCK, VERNE G; GYENE, PETER; KELLEY, JOHN (CO EXEC); KERTZMAN, MITCHELL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



29 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Cambodian Deputies Back War Crimes Court 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
After months of delay, the Cambodia National Assembly voted today to create a special tribunal, with help from the United Nations, to try the leaders of the murderous Khmer Rouge regime of the 1970's.
 Many political and technical pitfalls still lie ahead, and officials and experts said that it might be years before any of the aging leaders face trial and that some could evade justice altogether. 
 "I cannot say how many years, but it will take time," the assembly's president, Norodom Ranariddh, said on Friday.
The assembly acted surprisingly quickly, after just two days of consideration and with little debate. But it remained unclear whether Prime Minister Hun Sen, who orchestrates most political events, truly wants a trial to proceed. 
"It's a step forward," said a diplomat with long experience in Cambodia, "but we know that the roads are very rocky here. Based on past experience I would at this stage tread very carefully."
Though there was a show trial for absent defendants in 1979, no one has yet been brought into court to answer for the deaths of more than a million people when the Communist Khmer Rouge ruled Cambodia from 1975 to 1979.
When its guerrilla resistance collapsed at the end of the 1990's, most of its surviving leaders were granted amnesty and have been left alone to live in quiet retirement. Its supreme leader, Pol Pot, died in 1998.
The measure passed today, based on an American formula, involves a cumbersome compromise in which both Cambodian and foreign prosecutors and judges would jointly select the defendants and jointly reach their verdicts. The foreign judges would be in the minority but would hold veto power over decisions.
The compromise was made necessary by the resistance of Mr. Hun Sen, who is seeking to keep control of the process and who has engaged in what one political expert, Kao Kim Hourn, called "a policy of ambiguity" regarding his intentions.
Both foreign and domestic critics say the formula leaves the process vulnerable to the corruption and political manipulation that characterize the Cambodian legal system.
"Maybe it will function well -- maybe -- but we are concerned," said Kek Galabru, the head of Cambodia's leading human rights group, Licadho. "It is difficult to find independent judges in Cambodia, and most of the judges and prosecutors are not professional. And also there is the problem of corruption. So it will be difficult for the United Nations-appointed judges and prosecutors to work with the Cambodian team."
Sara Colm, the Cambodia representative of the New York-based group Human Rights Watch, expressed a widely held concern that the mixed-tribunal formula might set a precedent in which future United Nations courts could be similarly diluted by local political pressures.
She said a difficult process of negotiation with the United Nations over the last four years has been "a steady retreat" from the ideal of an impartial international tribunal.
"The concern is that by relying so much on the Cambodian judiciary -- which has been torn apart by the Khmer Rouge years and is still in the process of rebuilding -- that a tribunal of this nature would not be able to offer the fairness and transparency that is required," she said.
By selecting and pressuring the Cambodian members of the tribunal, she said, the government could determine who is prosecuted and how defendants are judged.
Mr. Hun Sen has said that at least one Khmer Rouge leader, Ieng Sary, should not be tried, although his name is one of the main half dozen raised by proponents of the trials.
Mr. Hun Sen has alternated between urging that the past be buried and forgotten and urging that a trial proceed to exorcise the ghosts of the past. Foreign envoys who have visited him have emerged alternately encouraged and frustrated.
His policy of ambiguity involves balancing pressures from both internal and external groups, including demands for a trial from most Western nations and pressure against a trial from China, a long-term sponsor of the Khmer Rouge. Both sides wield significant economic and political influence in Cambodia.
Though he likes to call himself a strongman -- and often acts like one -- Mr. Hun Sen faces internal pressures from his party. A number of its top officials, like Mr. Hun Sen himself, were themselves low-level Khmer Rouge cadre and fear that prosecutors could cast a wide net.
The measure passed today explicitly takes that concern into account, specifying that only those "most responsible" for atrocities would be put on trial.
Critics say, though, that any prior limitation on the defendants could stymie a fair and unfettered investigation. A great deal of documentary evidence has been gathered by a Cambodian documentation center, but legal experts say that witness interviews are central to successful prosecutions.
The names of the surviving leaders and suspects are well known. In addition to Mr. Ieng Sary, two top leaders who surrendered two years ago -- Nuon Chea and Khieu Samphan -- live in a remote enclave near the Thai border under a provisional amnesty, surrounded by former Khmer Rouge fighters who were once under their command. Documentary evidence has also been gathered implicating Mr. Ieng Sary's wife, Ieng Thirith.
Two other prominent figures who did not surrender and were not granted amnesty by the government -- Ta Mok and Kaing Khek Ieu, the commandant of the Khmer Rouge torture chamber, Tuol Sleng -- have been jailed and could be the first defendants to be brought into court.
Mr. Hun Sen has warned of instability if a trial proceeds, and he has been suspected of fomenting violence himself when it suits his ends. Most experts dismiss the possibility of any concerted Khmer Rouge backlash.
But a number of steps remain to be taken before any trial can proceed. The measure passed today must be approved by a newly created and usually passive Senate as well as a Constitutional Council before being signed into law by King Norodom Sihanouk.
Then a new round of negotiations with the United Nations over procedures and technicalities would begin. Only then could the expensive and complex process begin of setting up a court, choosing prosecutors and judges and investigating potential defendants.
"This has been the easy part," said Mr. Kao Kim Hourn, the director of the Cambodian Institute for Cooperation and Peace. "The more challenging part will be putting together the team -- particularly the Cambodian team -- and having the two teams work together in setting up the court."
And even that will only be a start, he said.
"The other, more challenging, part will be how to encourage those alleged Khmer Rouge leaders to come forward to appear in the court," he said. "Very challenging. And what would happen if they would not show up in court?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cambodian legislators yesterday approved the creation of a special tribunal, with help from the United Nations, to try the former leaders of the Khmer Rouge, which killed more than a million people in the 1970's. (Reuters); Ta Mok, a top commander, could be one of the first to be tried. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENOCIDE (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); JUDGES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); CORRUPTION (85%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); VERDICTS (76%); VETO (75%); AMNESTY (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (64%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) KHMER ROUGE (CAMBODIA); UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CAMBODIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) CAMBODIA

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



30 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: How to Lower The Cost of Drugs 

BYLINE:  By Uwe E. Reinhardt; Uwe E. Reinhardt is a professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University.

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J. 

 BODY:
American consumers lost little last week when the Clinton administration scuttled a drug-import bill passed with much fanfare last year by a Congress facing an election. The bill was intended to curb the rapidly rising costs of prescription drugs to patients and health insurers by allowing Americans to buy American-made medications at the lower, regulated prices found abroad.
 In the hunt for affordable prescription drugs, that bill was a toothless tiger. True, drugmakers charge more in America, lowering the price tag for foreign customers that resist higher prices. But this "price discrimination," as economists call it, is a common one in industries that have high fixed costs but marginal production costs. For pharmaceutical companies, research and development costs are high, but the cost of making the pills are relatively low. That's why they can sell their products at cut-rate prices to foreign buyers, who otherwise could not afford them. 
 The problem with price discrimination in the drug industry is its morally troublesome impact on the millions of Americans -- many of them elderly -- who don't have insurance coverage for such drugs. But the proper response to this inequity and to high drug prices generally is not importing our exports. Instead, American health insurers and consumers should do what prudent buyers do in other markets: evaluate products before paying for them.
Rising prices are driven by a growing stream of new, "me-too" medications -- concentrated in the antihistamine, antidepressant and anticholesterol categories -- that typically cost twice or three times as much as the drugs they replace. And neither the medical profession nor insurers have shown much interest in finding out if the higher-priced drugs offer commensurately superior benefits. 
For drug prices to drop, that must change. Private insurers and the government should agree to set aside just 1 percent of their collective yearly spending on prescription drugs and endow a $1 billion research institute. Such a private, nonprofit institute would be an authoritative, independent source of reputable research into whether new, improved drugs are, indeed, significantly new and improved.
Armed with such research, insurance companies could then adopt a system of "reference pricing," which has been used successfully in Germany to curb drug spending. Under that system, insurers reimburse patients fully only for the relatively low-cost effective drugs, but require consumers who want a higher-priced alternative to pay the price difference. 
To be sure, efficacy is not always the issue for patients, even well-informed ones. Some new drugs offer more convenient dosages or somewhat fewer side effects. A judicious system of reference pricing could reimburse consumers at a slightly higher rate for the newer drug, but still require that consumers who want the marginally better medication pay more out of their own pockets. 
Patients should always be able to spend their own money on the latest drugs, if they wish to. But if drug spending is to be curbed, patients cannot receive financing for slightly improved medications at whatever cost. Independent research and reference pricing are a solution -- a market solution that puts power where it belongs -- on the demand side. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PRICE DISCRIMINATION (78%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENDOWMENTS (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%) DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); RESEARCH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: REINHARDT, UWE E (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



31 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Medical Concern Growing Over Shortages of Drugs
Doctors, pharmacists and regulators are increasingly concerned about what they say are more frequent drug shortages. Where a few years ago a hospital might have a shortage of one or two critical drugs a year, the number in the last year has been closer to two dozen.
 There is no single reason for the shortages. Some stem from the drug industry's rapid consolidation. In some cases, regulators found problems at factories making the drugs and shut down production until processes were improved. And some big drug companies have stopped making the older drugs and have instead reserved factory capacity for newer drugs, which make more money. Page A1. 

AT&T to Increase Its Cable Rates
AT&T said that it would increase its cable television rates by an average of 4.8 percent this year even as it secured a big credit line arranged by some of the nation's largest banks. AT&T said the rate increase reflected higher costs, particularly increased payments to cable networks for programming. Shares of AT&T rose $1, to $18.25. C4.

Yahoo to Ban Sale of Hate Material
After months of pressure from anti-hate groups, Yahoo said that it would use human reviewers and software to keep hateful and violent material out of its auctions, classified sections and shopping areas. C2.

Dividends Fall 2.5% for S.& P. 500
Dividends on stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500 fell 2.5 percent last year, making it the first decline in nearly a decade and the first one ever that could not easily be explained by economic factors or government regulations. Floyd Norris: Market Place. C9.

A Makeover for the Maytag Man
The "lonely" Maytag repairman, one of the best-known characters in advertising since his introduction in 1967, is getting recast and rethought for a new generation of consumers. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C8.

'Dirty Fingernails' 80 Hours a Week
Wade Dokken, the chief executive of American Skandia, a financial services concern in Shelton, Conn., is always asking people to criticize him. "How do you learn and become someone in life without that?" he said. He describes his management style as "dirty fingernails" and works 80 hours a week. "The only way I see balancing work and family is I don't do social things. My life is work, children, my wife and church." The Boss. C6.

Legend to Resume Some Service
Legend Airlines, which offered first-class service at coach prices for fliers to and from Dallas until it was forced into bankruptcy, has found new investors and plans to resume service to New York and Washington. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,646.15 down 140.70Nasdaq composite -- 2,291.86 down 178.6610-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.91% down 0.19The euro -- $0.9503 up 0.0085The dollar -- 114.39 yen down 0.20 Graph: "TODAY" shows construction spending figures from May-October.November figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2% Graph shows AT&T share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); DRUG SHORTAGES (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACISTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); AUCTIONS (72%); PLANT CAPACITY (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); RETAILERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SKANDIA LIFE ASSURANCE CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



32 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Factory Index Fell Sharply Last Month 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
United States manufacturers received sharply fewer orders, made fewer products and employed fewer workers in December than they did in the previous month, sending a closely watched index of manufacturing activity to its lowest level since 1991.
 Over the course of 2000, the index fell more steeply than in any year since 1979, according to a report released yesterday by the National Association of Purchasing Management. Last month, the index stood at 43.7, down from 47.7 in November, suggesting that the overall economy was growing at a rate of less than 1 percent a year, based on historical patterns, the association said. A reading above 50 indicates growth in manufacturing, while a reading below that level indicates a contraction. 
 The unexpectedly steep decline helped send the dollar to its lowest exchange level against the euro in six months as traders bet that Europe might now be economically stronger than the United States. Wall Street's principal stock gauges fell yesterday, with the Nasdaq composite index closing at 2,291.86, down 7.23 percent on the first trading day of 2001.
The manufacturing report added a new intensity to the debate over whether the United States economy was headed for a recession this year. The one-fifth of the economy devoted to manufacturing has already fallen beyond the stage of slow growth and is now shrinking, according to the index. 
New orders dropped particularly steeply in December, suggesting that a rebound was unlikely in the next few months, said Norbert J. Ore, the head of the committee that publishes the purchasing association's report. In addition to orders, the index measures production, inventories, delivery times and employment by surveying purchasing managers across the United States.
The services sector, though, continues to expand, albeit less rapidly than in early 2000, and most economists still expect the country to avoid a recession this year. Many analysts think that the Federal Reserve is ready to soon cut interest rates, and some note that energy prices have begun falling. 
Still, the decline in manufacturing, coming on top of a falling stock market, weak holiday sales and slower growth in technology investments by businesses, has increased the economy's vulnerability. A minority of economists argue that even without a shock -- like an unexpected oil shortage or major bankruptcy -- the economy will contract in 2001. For example, Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at the investment firm of Hoenig & Company, said yesterday that the manufacturing index's low level suggested that the country slipped into a recession in the fourth quarter of 2000.
Either way, the index offered the latest evidence that economic activity has slowed much more rapidly than executives, investors and Federal Reserve economists were predicting even a few months ago. Analysts now expect the Fed to cut interest rates either late this month or at its meeting after that, in March, to encourage new spending. Bonds rose yesterday in anticipation of a rate cut.
But the Fed's job could be complicated by lingering fears of inflation. Despite the slowdown, manufacturers reported paying higher prices in December than they did in previous months, raising the specter of 1970's-style stagflation, in which a combination of rising prices and slowing growth handcuffs the Federal Reserve.
The Fed raised rates six times in 1999 and 2000 to put the brakes on a fast-growing economy that some worried would spur inflation. In recent months, those increases have combined with rising debt, higher energy costs and falling stock prices to make both consumers and businesses wary about expensive new purchases. At its most recent meeting, the Fed switched its so-called bias, announcing that it thought a recession was a greater threat than inflation.
Personal spending on big-ticket items, like cars and refrigerators, has fallen sharply since the middle of 2000, while corporate investment in computers and software -- a linchpin of the decade-long boom -- is no longer growing as rapidly as it was. As a result, inventories have begun to swell, and manufacturers like Ford and Whirlpool have laid off workers.
Some economists are worried that the rapid slowdown is entering a vicious cycle, in which job losses create nervousness more broadly among consumers, leading to less spending and, eventually, more layoffs. "The more abrupt a slowdown is, the more uncertainty there is about how deep it will go," said Joel Prakken, chairman of Macroeconomic Advisers, a consulting firm in St. Louis.
Analysts said they were looking to Friday's employment report as the next key indicator of how quickly the Fed is likely to reduce interest rates.
The Dana Corporation, a $13 billion maker of automotive components based in Toledo, Ohio, is typical of the slumping manufacturing sector. Through the first half of 2000, orders for axles that turn the wheels of large trucks continued growing robustly, causing truck makers like Navistar and Volvo to increase production, said Gary J. Corrigan, a spokesman for Dana. 
Last summer, however, truck orders began falling sharply, leaving companies with excess inventory. Manufacturers then cut their orders from suppliers like Dana. Its sales have dropped, and the company has laid off 5,000 of its 80,000 workers in recent months, Mr. Corrigan said.
Only one of the 20 manufacturing industries tracked by the index -- printing and publishing -- said its business improved last month.
Perhaps the one piece of good news, Mr. Ore of the purchasing association said, is a widespread decline in inventories, which indicates that companies are able to sell enough goods to begin emptying their warehouses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); NEW ORDERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); BONDS (77%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); EURO (68%); BOND MARKETS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (57%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: HOENIG & CO LTD (62%); HOENIG & CO INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (83%) NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



33 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Continuing Investor Worries Keep Stocks Sliding in 2001

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stocks began 2001 the way they finished 2000 -- plunging -- as investors continued to worry about the impact of slowing economic growth on corporate profits.
 The batting about of the "R" word -- recession -- is making investors even more jumpy because that could turn the slower growth in profits that many investors are now expecting into a decline in profits. 
 As usual, the technology sector took the lead yesterday, with the Nasdaq composite index down 7.2 percent, led by a 13 percent decline in Cisco Systems. The Nasdaq, which closed at 2,291.86, slipping 178.66 points, is now down to where it was in March 1999, having lost nearly all the gains of the last two years. 
It was the worst percentage decline for the technology-heavy Nasdaq since April 14 last year, when it fell 9.7 percent, and the seventh-worst daily percentage decline in history.
"This continuing unwinding of the technology overinvestment is dominating the market," said Richard E. Cripps, chief market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker in Baltimore. "The carnage in technology is exaggerating the overall weakness in the market." The problem, he said, is that he expects the technology "bloodbath" to continue for a while.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 1.3 percent, weighed down by a 6 percent slide in Boeing, a stock that had a really good year in 2000. The Dow closed at 10,646.15, falling 140.70 points. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 2.8 percent, or 37.01 points, to 1,283.27.
But the bond market rallied as investors got another signal that the economy was slowing. The National Association of Purchasing Management reported that its factory index fell to 43.7 percent in December, its lowest reading since April 1991, the month after the end of the last recession. A reading below 50 signals that the manufacturing sector is contracting.
That news sent bond prices higher and yields lower, with the Treasury's 10-year note breaking below 5 percent for the first time since February 1999. Bonds were also helped by investors fleeing from the stock market.
Both the purchasing management report and the continued worries about the outlook for stocks are going to turn investor focus more sharply on the Federal Reserve. Just a month ago, when Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Fed, signaled that the central bank was ready to cut interest rates at the hint of a recession, many analysts were forecasting a rate cut by the end of the first quarter.
But as more data have showed growth slowing swiftly -- and as more and more Wall Street economists have been revising their economic forecasts downward -- analysts are now saying the Fed will cut interest rates at its next meeting Jan. 30-31, if not before.
"Investors have to figure out whether we are in for slower profit growth and one or two Fed easings or declining profits and a sharp decline in the federal funds rate," which is the central bank's benchmark short-term interest rate, said Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist at Hoenig & Company in Rye Brook, N.Y. "I am in the latter camp," he added, saying that he sees enough signs now to believe that the economy is in a recession.
Mr. Cripps said that he was not sure if there would be a recession. But, he said, "it will feel like it whether we are down 1 percent or up 1 percent."
The decline yesterday was no surprise. Even after finishing the worst year in more than two decades for stocks, many analysts warned that the beginning of 2001 would be rough because all the bad news about weak earnings and slowing economic growth is not out yet.
The first-quarter earnings forecast for the S.& P. 500 is already down to 4.7 percent, from 15.6 percent on Oct. 1, according to First Call/Thomson Financial.
In addition to Cisco and Boeing, the market was led lower by declines in Veritas Software, EMC, Oracle, Qualcomm and other technology stocks.
Dane Lewis, an analyst at Robertson Stephens Inc., downgraded a group of network storage and security companies, including EMC, which was off $12.19, to $54.31; Veritas, down $21.50, to $66; Network Appliance, off $12.75, to $51.44; and Internet Security Systems, off $13.25, to $65.19.
He said, in a report on the investment bank's Web site, that recent industry checks suggested that information technology purchases for storage would fall sharply in the first quarter of this year. He also said that companies were likely to delay plans for network expansion, which will cut into purchases of products to detect vulnerability and intrusion.
In the afternoon, Boeing, which fell $4, to $62, reported that it had delivered 489 jetliners last year, one short of its forecast of 490. But analysts expect it to be hurt by the economic slowdown. Investors might also be anxious to lock in profits after Boeing surged 59 percent last year.
Mr. Cripps said that stocks were also pushed lower by people who had delayed taking a capital gain until the new year. A lot of the popular technology stocks that fell sharply last year were still up over the last several years. And by selling them yesterday, the investor postponed the capital gain until April 2002, rather than paying up by this April.
But because these stocks have been falling so fast, these investors pulled the trigger as soon as the new year began.
Among the stocks fighting the downward trend were Exxon Mobil, up $2.19, to $89.13. Exxon and other energy stocks are being bolstered by talk among members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries about cutting production this month to stop the recent decline in the price of crude oil. From a peak of $37.20 a barrel on Sept. 20, it has dropped to $27.21.
In the Treasury market, the price of the 10-year note rose 1 17/32, to 106 12/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 4.91 percent, from 5.10 percent Friday. The yield on the 30-year bond dropped to 5.34 percent from 5.46 percent Friday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auctions of 14-day cash management bills and 3-month and 6-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.750
Investment rate: 6.53%
High rate: 6.44%
Low rate: 6.38%
Median rate: 6.40%
Total applied for: $62,790,000
Accepted: $30,013,000
Noncompetitive: -0-

The 14-day cash management bills mature Jan. 16, 2001.
(000 omitted in dollar figures)3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice98.55997.290High Rate5.70%5.36%Investment Rate5.86%5.58%Low Rate5.65%5.32%Median Rate5.67%5.35%Total applied $30for,218,378$27,151,546$19Accepted,739,188$16,163,321$1Noncompetitive,316,588$1,699,325

Both issues are dated Jan. 4, 2001. The three-month bills mature on April 5, 2001, and the six-month bills mature on July 5, 2001.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Eugenides, a Chicago Mercantile Exchange trader, paused yesterday. (Associated Press)(pg. C1) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) Graph: "3-Month Treasury Yields" shows average discounted rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer)(pg. C9) Chart: "Off to a Bad Start"Yesterday's decline in the Nasdaq composite was its seventh worst one-day decline. DATE: 10/19/87CLOSE: 360.21CHANGE: -11.35% DATE: 4/14/00CLOSE: 3,321.29CHANGE: -9.67 DATE: 10/20/87CLOSE: 327.79CHANGE: -9.00 DATE: 10/26/87CLOSE: 298.90CHANGE: -9.00 DATE: 8/31/98CLOSE: 1,499.25CHANGE: -8.56 DATE: 4/3/00CLOSE: 4,223.68CHANGE: -7.64 DATE: 1/2/01CLOSE: 2,291.86CHANGE: -7.23 DATE: 12/20/00CLOSE: 2,332.78CHANGE: -7.12 DATE: 4/12/00CLOSE: 3,769.63CHANGE: -7.06 DATE: 10/27/97CLOSE: 1,535.09CHANGE: -7.02 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); INTEREST RATES (83%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); LEGG MASON WOOD WALKER INC (55%); BOEING CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



34 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS; 
Poverty and Achievement, And Great Misconceptions

BYLINE:  By Richard Rothstein; E-mail: rrothstein@nytimes.com

 BODY:
EVERYONE wants to raise the achievement of low-income pupils, but there is little agreement on how to do so. One approach is to identify exceptional schools and seek to copy their techniques.
 In that spirit, the conservative Heritage Foundation has studied 21 schools with both high poverty and high achievement. In its report, "No Excuses," Heritage claims that these schools succeed because their principals defy public education bureaucracies, substitute basics for progressive education fads, do a lot of testing, fire uninspiring teachers (or harass them until they leave) and refuse to blame poverty or other family disadvantage for low scores. 
 In such ways, the report says, these schools escape a destructive "cult of public education."
Yet it seems that ideology, not evidence, inspired the conclusion.
Three of the 21 schools that the report identified are private, and several of the public schools are at least partly selective. A Queens school it chose, P.S. 122, includes a program for gifted pupils drawn from the entire district, so its high average scores tell us little about how to improve achievement of the most disadvantaged children.
The report's biggest flaw is its assumption that poverty alone defines the problems of the low-income school. Rather, schools with consistently low scores typically have children for whom poverty per se is only one problem. They also suffer crime-ridden neighborhoods, broken families, parental stress, inadequate housing and poor health.
Data on school demography, however, usually disclose only pupils eligible for subsidized lunches. This includes some with family income as high as $30,000. These are often children with stable homes and parents regularly employed. It is foolish for the "No Excuses" report to suggest that if some schools in such places succeed, schools with much poorer children who have multiple social and economic problems can too.
Consider Bennett-Kew Elementary School in Inglewood, Calif., a "No Excuses" school. Its pupils are in the lunch program, but 30 percent have parents who graduated from college, a rate higher than the national average; 12 percent have parents with graduate degrees. Bennett-Kew may be terrific, but can schools filled with the children of high school dropouts learn much from it?
Or consider another "No Excuses" school, Morse Elementary in Cambridge, Mass. It has bilingual classes in Korean and Chinese for children of graduate students and faculty members at Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Graduate students may have incomes low enough for their children to get subsidized lunches, but schools with children of less literate immigrants cannot just as easily post high scores.
"No Excuses" says its 21 schools succeed by discarding whole language, "new" math and social promotion. But evidence does not support this at several of its schools. The Amelia Earhart School in Chicago mixes whole language and phonics, and rarely holds back students who are below grade level (though it does give them extra help).
Some of the schools that rely heavily on phonics have a curious test score pattern, with higher scores in early grades but lower scores later. This is true, for example, at the Mabel B. Wesley School in Houston, which has won national acclaim for a scripted program of drill in basics.
Samuel Casey Carter, author of the report, says such score declines in upper grades occur at all schools. For older pupils, he says, exams test not just phonetic skills but also comprehension, and are harder.
But that explanation makes no sense. Scores are reported as national percentiles. So, by definition, at every grade half the nation's pupils are above the 50th percentile and half below it. If ranks drop in a school as pupils move to upper grades, they must be doing worse compared with pupils elsewhere than when they were younger. Their school may be sacrificing comprehension to excessive focus on phonics.
Some "No Excuses" schools score well on commercial tests, but poorly on state exams aligned with a richer curriculum. Thus, the Healthy Start Academy in Durham, N.C., has high scores on some tests, but North Carolina designates it "low performing" because its state scores are so low. This inconsistency, too, may result from emphasizing basic skills to the exclusion of more advanced thinking that new state standards require.
The Heritage Foundation highlights some practices that do breed success. These include teacher collaboration, strong leadership and parent involvement. But it also highlights others, like near-exclusive drill in phonics and computation, that seem inspired more by ideology than results.
Regrettably, the report as a whole is enveloped in such contempt for most public education that its valid messages are lost.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2001

 CORRECTION:
The Lessons column on Wednesday, about a report by the Heritage Foundation on successful practices at 21 schools, referred incorrectly to a bilingual education program at Morse Elementary in Cambridge, Mass. It teaches only in Korean, not also in Chinese.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FAMILY (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (86%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (85%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); GIFTED EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (77%); MULTILINGUALISM (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (64%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

ORGANIZATION: HERITAGE FOUNDATION (58%)

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



35 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Seeks New Measures Against Guns 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
Five months after New York adopted the nation's strictest gun controls, Gov. George E. Pataki today called for a campaign against illegal gun trafficking, with tougher criminal penalties and the creation of a state police team.
 The proposals amount to an admission that the changes made last year will make little difference as long as guns are easy to buy in other states and import into New York, a point his aides acknowledged. The proposals also further underscore the vast distance between Mr. Pataki, a Republican, and the national Republican Party on gun controls. 
 "We think it's an important, very important, next step in reducing crime," the governor said, speaking to reporters at the swearing-in of a new judge of the Court of Appeals, Victoria A. Graffeo.
Mr. Pataki's comments signaled his first major policy proposal for the new year, one of several he will offer on Wednesday in his annual State of the State speech. Unlike recent years, when rent control, tax cuts or health care subsidies dominated the agenda here, this year presents no overarching issue for the governor and the State Legislature, but there is also no shortage of important matters to address.
State lawmakers are worried that New York could face an electric power shortage like the one in California, and Mr. Pataki said today that he had some plans for avoiding that fate.
This year, New York also faces a number of problems whose solutions may run into the billions of dollars, like renewing the Child Health Plus program, finding a new source of money for the nearly broke toxic waste cleanup program, and figuring out how to pay for planned mass transit projects after voters rejected a $3.8 billion transportation bond act in November.
The Republican leader of the State Senate, Joseph L. Bruno, has staked out investment in biotechnology research, energy conservation and, in light of last year's controversy in Florida, changes in election procedures as his primary issues. "The objective, really, is to create access, ready access, so that people can vote that want to vote," he said today.
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, is still dealing with the fallout from an attempt by a rival faction to topple him last year. The Assembly will weigh a number of proposals intended, in part, to address dissidents' concerns and loosen the power of the speaker. Mr. Silver must also select a new majority leader, the second-highest post in the chamber, a choice that is fraught with regional and factional jealousies.
Mr. Pataki will propose his 2001-2002 budget next Tuesday, and some legislators are predicting that after sizable spending increases in recent years, growth could be less this time because of a slowing economy and promised tax cuts that take effect this year. The governor has proposed a modest package of tax cuts for businesses and homeowners, and today he called for expansion of the Empire Zone program, in which the state offers incentives for employers to move to blighted areas.
But the issues that end up lighting a fire under the Capitol are often ones that were not widely anticipated at the start of the year, making prediction a dicey game. Last year, Mr. Pataki waited until March to propose a sweeping gun control package, catching legislators in both parties by surprise. Despite considerable opposition from Senate Republicans, the package was passed in June, and Mr. Pataki signed it in August.
The new law will make New York the first state to require "ballistic fingerprinting" of all new guns sold, so that the telltale markings they leave on bullets and shell casings can be entered into a state computer database. The law requires criminal background checks on buyers at gun shows, bans assault weapons, raises the age for buying a handgun to 21 from 18, requires that trigger locks be included with all new handguns sold, and requires gun owners to report lost or stolen guns to the police within 24 hours.
Today, the governor proposed the creation of a new unit within the state police devoted exclusively to combating illegal gun trafficking. Law enforcement officials say that three of every four guns used in crimes in New York were originally sold in another state and then imported and sold here illegally.
Mr. Pataki and his aides would not say how big the antigun unit would be, but he said he would devote "substantial resources" to it.
The governor called for longer prison sentences for illegal gun possession and possession with intent to sell. He said he would also close loopholes that prosecutors have long complained allow traffickers to avoid the harsh penalties for illegal sales of several guns at once. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUN CONTROL (93%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FIREARMS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (74%); BONDS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); POWER FAILURES (71%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (70%); JUDGES (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); APPEALS COURTS (54%); RENT CONTROL (52%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (51%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (50%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (50%) FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; SMUGGLING 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



36 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY BRIEFS 

 BODY:
 FERRO CORP., Cleveland, a maker of chemicals and plastics, said it had acquired the EMCA-Remex unit of the National Starch and Chemical Company, Bridgewater, N.J., for an undisclosed price to broaden its electronic-pastes product line. National Starch and Chemical is a unit of Imperial Chemical Industries of Britain.

SBA COMMUNICATIONS CORP., Boca Raton, Fla., which owns equipment used to relay cellular-phone signals, said it had acquired 127 antenna towers from US Unwired Inc., Lake Charles, La., for about $40 million in cash. US Unwired is a network affiliate of the PCS Group of Sprint.

NACCO INDUSTRIES INC.,Mayfield Heights, Ohio, which designs, makes and markets forklift trucks and also owns coal mining and household appliance companies, said it would close Nacco Materials Handling Group Inc., its lift truck assembly plant subsidiary in Danville, Ill., putting about 680 people out of work in a phase-out covering 12 to 18 months.

TYLER TECHNOLOGIES INC., Dallas, an information-management company, has sold the land records business unit of its subsidiary, the Business Resources Corporation, to Affiliated Computer Services Inc., an information-processing services company, also of Dallas, for $71 million in cash.

INTERGRAPH CORP., Huntsville, Ala., a computer services company, said it had completed the sale of three engineering-software product lines to the closely held Bentley Systems Inc., Exton, Pa., for about $40 million. Bentley, which is 30 percent owned by Intergraph, provides technology services to engineering, construction and architectural markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS MFG (93%); CHEMICALS (93%); ENGINEERING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); INDUSTRIAL TRUCK MFG (78%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (78%); MATERIALS HANDLING (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); COAL MINING (54%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FERRO CORP (93%); NATIONAL STARCH & CHEMICAL CO (92%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (84%); INTERGRAPH CORP (82%); SBA COMMUNICATIONS CORP (72%); NACCO INDUSTRIES INC (71%); NACCO MATERIALS HANDLING GROUP INC (70%); AFFILIATED COMPUTER SERVICES INC (69%); TYLER TECHNOLOGIES INC (69%); BUSINESS RESOURCE CORP (69%); COMPUTER SERVICES CO (68%); COMPUTER SERVICE CO INC (68%); BENTLEY SYSTEMS INC (67%); IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES PLC (58%); ORICA LTD (58%)

TICKER: FOE (NYSE) (93%); S (NYSE) (84%); SBAC (NASDAQ) (72%); NC (NYSE) (71%); TYL (NYSE) (69%); ORI (ASX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311221 WET CORN MILLING (92%); SIC2891 ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (92%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2046 WET CORN MILLING (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS532490 OTHER COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL AND LEASING (72%); NAICS237130 POWER & COMMUNICATION LINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (72%); SIC7359 EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING, NEC (72%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (72%); SIC1623 WATER, SEWER, PIPELINE, & COMMUNICATIONS & POWER LINE CONSTRUCTION (72%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (71%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (71%); SIC3537 INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS & STACKERS (70%); NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (69%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (69%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (69%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (68%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311942 SPICE & EXTRACT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325920 EXPLOSIVES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2892 EXPLOSIVES (58%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (58%) SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (88%); LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (56%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (51%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (88%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



37 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing; 
COUNTIES' CREDIT RATINGS

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 The credit-worthiness of New York's counties is generally average and getting better, though some continue to struggle, a Wall Street firm says. Moody's Investors Service found the counties around New York City to be in good shape -- except for deficit-plagued Nassau County, which saw its credit rating drop in 2000 -- and some pockets of strength upstate. 
And some small, chiefly rural counties continued to be deemed worse-than-average credit risks because of factors like higher unemployment rates, debt, poverty rates, the wealth of residents, population losses, recently built housing stocks and tax revenues. Marcy Block, a Moody's analyst, said that among regions of the state, the Catskills had the lowest median credit rating of Baa1, while the North Country, the Mohawk Valley and western New York were a notch ahead at A3. The Finger Lakes region had the strongest median credit rating at A1. County credit-ratings range from the best, Aaa, to the worst, Baa3. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); POOR POPULATION (87%); POPULATION DECLINE (87%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POVERTY RATES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); MOUNTAINS (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (55%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



38 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: Soros Sees a Hard Landing for the U.S. 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, Jan. 2 

 BODY:
George Soros, the billionaire financier, told a Chilean newspaper that the United States economy was in for a "bouncy and hard" landing, but his main concern was for spillover turmoil in emerging markets.
 In an interview with Chile's El Mercurio newspaper, Mr. 
Soros also said he believed that a global crisis was inevitable even though he expected the Federal Reserve to lower key interest rates aggressively early this year. 
 "I believe that it will be bouncy and hard," the newspaper quoted him as saying. "A hard landing means a slowdown and could eventually turn into a recession or in low growth for a couple of quarters. We are in a fairly classic slowdown cycle in the United States. 
"But I am much more worried about the consequences on the edge of the system because this edge has been weakened because of the 1997-1998 crisis, and I believe will have more serious repercussions in distant regions, such as Southeast Asia."
Mr. Soros said the problem with the looming crisis was inadequate capital flows from industrial nations to emerging nations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); TRENDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: EL MERCURIO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (92%) SOROS, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHILE (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



39 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: More Conservatives From Mr. Bush 

 BODY:
George W. Bush filled the last three vacancies in his cabinet yesterday, choosing two right-of-center Republicans to run the departments of Energy and Labor and a moderate Democrat for the Department of Transportation. None of these posts equal the policy-making impact of the top jobs at State, Defense, Justice and even Interior. Taken together, however, they reinforce two emerging characteristics of Mr. Bush's cabinet -- its essentially conservative cast and its fealty to the major themes of his campaign. 
 Mr. Bush's choice for energy secretary is Spencer Abraham, the recently defeated junior senator from Michigan. During his brief career on Capitol Hill, Mr. Abraham introduced a bill to abolish the very department he has now been asked to run. His selection is also a further insult to environmentalists still reeling from Mr. Bush's selection last Friday of Gale Norton as interior secretary. In the continuing struggle between the preservation of the country's natural resources and their exploitation, Mr. Abraham, like Ms. Norton, clearly favors exploitation. He, too, supports Mr. Bush's wholly unnecessary scheme to open the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil exploration. 
 On the basis of his voting record -- which routinely received zero ratings from the League of Conservation Voters -- he is likely to champion an energy strategy that depends far more on production than on conservation, though any sensible policy would give at least equal weight to both. Similarly, he seems indifferent to issues that interested the incumbent secretary, Bill Richardson, including the development of cleaner cars and alternative fuels and, in general, a more energy-efficient economy. He also voted to roll back federal clean water and clean air programs. 
Linda Chavez, the labor secretary-designate, is a highly ideological choice. As staff director of the Commission on Civil Rights and later as a senior adviser in the White House, she became one of the Reagan administration's most visible Hispanic officials. Her allies describe her as strongly committed to racial and ethnic equality, but she has often been at odds with Hispanic activists, in part because she opposes affirmative action and bilingual education. She was an outspoken supporter of California's Proposition 227, the ballot measure aimed at ending 30 years of bilingual education in California. 
The choice of Norman Mineta, presently the secretary of commerce, as transportation secretary satisfies Mr. Bush's pledge to appoint a Democrat. Mr. Mineta is popular on Capitol Hill, and brings to his new job a broad familiarity with transportation issues, especially aviation. In 1997 he headed a top-level panel that warned of gridlock in the country's crowded skies.
The three choices definitely broaden the new cabinet's ethnic composition. Mr. Abraham is Arab-American, Ms. Chavez Hispanic and Mr. Mineta Japanese-American. What they do not add is significant ideological diversity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (85%); MULTILINGUALISM (84%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); REFERENDUMS (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (67%); ARAB AMERICANS (67%); WILDLIFE (66%); ETHNICITY (66%); BALLOTS (66%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (64%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (51%); AIR QUALITY (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); LEAGUE OF CONSERVATION VOTERS (55%) ENERGY DEPARTMENT; TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US); LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); MINETA, NORMAN Y; CHAVEZ, LINDA; ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



40 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2321 words

HEADLINE: THE 43rd PRESIDENT; 
Remarks by Bush and Designees to Lead Energy, Labor and Transportation

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from a news conference yesterday by President-elect George W. Bush announcing his choice of Senator Spencer Abraham as secretary of energy, Linda Chavez as secretary of labor and Norman Y. Mineta as secretary of transportation, as recorded by The New York Times: 

President-Elect Bush
 First, I'm proud to introduce Senator Spencer Abraham of Michigan, who is my choice to be the secretary of energy. Senator Abraham knows the issues of energy policy, and he understands the opportunities and challenges before us. He's ready to join me in seeking energy security for the United States. We understand our national security depends upon energy security.
In Michigan during the campaign, I pledged a comprehensive energy policy for our country. I look forward to working with Senator Abraham to make sure that energy is available and affordable for all Americans. We must meet rising demand for energy with new domestic exploration and production. We must produce and conserve all forms of energy in America, and we must do so in an economically sound and environmentally sensitive way.
Spence is a veteran of the White House, he understands the Congress and will be an effective member of my cabinet. I'm honored that he would join us.
Secondly, I'm going to submit the name of Linda Chavez as the secretary of labor. She's a familiar voice on issues facing American workers, a staunch advocate of civil rights for everybody.
Linda is smart and capable. We share a passion to make sure that nobody in America is left behind. We share a passion that says as the economy changes, our work force will be trained to meet the new economic opportunities in the 21st century.
Linda's a well-known writer; she is a mother and a grandmother; she understands Washington well. After all, at one time in her career, she was a Democrat staffer. She is a member of a labor union at one point. She has served in a previous Republican administration. I'm proud to have Linda on my team.
And finally, it's a great pleasure to announce that Norm Mineta has agreed to have his name submitted as the secretary of transportation. Secretary Mineta will bring a lot of experience to the job. He made a reputation in the halls of Congress as someone who understands that a sound infrastructure in America will lead to economic opportunities for all Americans.
Secretary Mineta and I look forward to working on issues such as air safety, air travel, preserving the roads and bridges of America, assisting states and local communities in making sure the infrastructures are modern.
He's been an elected official elected at the local level in California. He served with distinction in the United States Congress and is currently President Clinton's United States secretary of commerce. . . . 

Senator Abraham
As we know, many significant Energy Department-related issues face us at this time, ranging from the adequacy of supply to affordability to the development of new technologies to the issues of security at our facilities and more.
Fortunately, this administration is comprised of many individuals with incredible expertise in these areas. And I look forward to helping the president-elect to effectively address these challenges in the days ahead.
We have vast resources within the United States and these are crucial to our country's security. We can make good use of them while at the same time, I believe, meeting our responsibilities as good stewards of the land, the air and the water. . . . 

Ms. Chavez
I first want to thank my husband and my three sons, whose encouragement, patience and support have enabled me to accept the many challenges and opportunities that have come my way.
But I'd also like to remember someone who could not be here today, because he did not live to see this day, and that is my father. As a house painter, he taught me the dignity of manual labor. As someone whose own childhood poverty cut short his education in the ninth grade, he nonetheless introduced me to the world of books and ideas. And those are what enabled me to take a path that was easier than his own.
I also want to thank my mother, who stood on her feet long hours in restaurants and in department stores to help support our family during my childhood and whose love continues to give me courage.
If I am confirmed as secretary of labor I intend to keep faith with the men and the women who still work at jobs like those my parents held. I hope also to seek out new opportunities to increase the skills and the productivity of all Americans, to promote safe working conditions and to administer the nation's labor laws.
I intend to vigorously enforce the department's regulations to guarantee nondiscrimination by federal contractors. And I want to work with employers to ensure that the Department of Labor assists the private sector in expanding economic opportunity and job growth. . . . 

Mr. Mineta
Over the last year this country has witnessed a very hard-fought election. And I was proud to stand with my party. I have been honored to serve in President Clinton's cabinet as secretary of commerce. I am a Democrat with both a small "d" and a large one. And I am proud of and committed to my party's principles and its heritage.
However, the campaign is over and under our constitutional system a decision has been rendered. And we are now in the essential transition period when we move from campaigning to governance. As you have said time and time again, Mr. President-elect, the challenge before all of us as Americans, regardless of party affiliation, is to find those areas where we can build bipartisan consensus on the policies and the programs that are needed to move this nation forward. Now that sentiment has been echoed in comments made by both President Clinton and Vice President Gore, and I share it completely.
In my career as a City Council member and mayor of San Jose, Calif., and as a member of Congress and as a businessperson and, since July, the secretary of commerce, I have always tried to build that kind of consensus. I believe that there is no more fertile ground for building a bipartisan consensus on what is necessary and right for our country than in the area of transportation policy.
There are no Democratic or Republican highways, no such thing as Republican or Democratic traffic congestion, no such thing as Republican or Democratic aviation and highway safety. Cargo is not shipped by Republican or Democratic railroads, ships, barges or pipelines.
Our national transportation policy must have one overriding, bipartisan goal. And that is to give our economy the tools and the infrastructure it needs in order to create and sustain growth and prosperity. In particular, it is no accident that in the areas in our nation where the economy has excelled, the No. 1 issue is improving the transportation system. Inadequate infrastructure is one of the chief threats to a thriving economy.
Ours is a dynamic and evolving society. And our transportation policies must reflect and nurture that reality. That is a belief that all of us share and it is certainly one on which the president-elect, the vice president-elect and I strongly agree. . . . 

Questions and Answers

Q. You've now named a cabinet that is very diverse in terms of gender and ethnicity and experience in the private sector and the federal government. What does your cabinet say, do you think, about your management style; about how you intend to make decisions as president?

MR. BUSH. -- Well, I appreciate that. First, it says I'm not afraid to surround myself with strong and competent people. I believe the American people want a president who seeks the best, people from all walks of life who are strong, experienced, capable Americans. I'm going to work with every cabinet member to set a series of goals for each cabinet, for each area of our government. And I'll work with the cabinet secretaries to help achieve those goals.
But I fully expect to be given straightforward talk, honest opinion and I expect people to work for one thing in mind: that which is best for America. And I'm proud of this cabinet and hope the American people realize that a good executive is one that understands how to recruit people and how to delegate, how to align authority and responsibility, how to hold people accountable for results and how to build a team of people. And that's exactly what we're going to do.
This is a team of people who'll be dedicated to doing what is right for America.

Q. Mr. President-elect, as you prepare your economic plan to submit to Congress, I'm wondering if you could tell us, do you believe, sir, that if you cut taxes, whether it's the marriage penalty or marginal rates, revenues to the federal government necessarily increase, that is to say, you adopt the Reagan philosophy that lower taxes create a revenue source for the government and do not create deficits? Or do you believe tax cuts could create deficit problems in the future?

A. Well, a couple of things, the tax relief package that I talked about in the campaign was phased in based upon projections so that we wouldn't run a deficit.
Secondly, I do believe that a properly structured tax relief plan will cause revenues eventually to go up. I believe that a tax-relief package, if properly structured, and I'm confident ours is properly structured, will encourage economic growth and vitality and more job creation.
And I am concerned, as I have said, that there are some warning signs on the horizon. This is an administration that certainly hopes the economy remains strong, it'll make our job a heck of a lot easier. But ours is going to be an administration that anticipates any potential problem. And I'm worried about an economic slowdown and I believe it is important for us to insure against any economic slowdown by a responsible tax-relief package. . . . 

Q. You've taken great pains, obviously, to diversify your cabinet, but are you concerned that with the nomination of Senator Ashcroft, and specifically the battle that's brewing, coming from civil rights groups and others, that that will undercut that accomplishment in any way?

A. Well, first of all, I would hope that all our nominations sail through, but that's not generally the way it goes. I'm sure there's going to be some tough questioning for some of our nominees. But they're all fully prepared to handle the tough questioning. And I hope people do talk to John Ashcroft about his vision of civil rights and his concept of fairness in America, because I certainly did.
I want to remind you all this is the man who became the attorney general of the state of Missouri, was elected as the governor of the state of the Missouri and a United States senator in the state of Missouri, a man who had a record of taking his heart and philosophy to the people of a swing state and got elected. And I'm confident that he'll withstand the scrutiny about his fairness and his heart.
Unfortunately, sometimes politics enters into the confirmation process, I understand that and so does he. But I'm confident when it's all said and done, Senator Ashcroft will be confirmed by the Senate. . . . 

Q. Jesse Jackson has said specifically that he will lead a charge against Senator Ashcroft. I'm wondering if that complicates both your effort to meet with the Reverend Jackson and your effort to reach out to minority groups, specifically African-Americans?

A. Well, I find -- I mean, Jesse Jackson is -- you know, in a great land called America can do anything he wants to do. He can try to block any nomination he wants. But I think those who are going to make the determination as to whether or not these nominees get confirmed, the United States senators, if they are objective and they take a look at, in this case, Senator Ashcroft's heart and his record, they'll confirm him.

Q. Are you concerned that the brewing fight over Senator Ashcroft's nomination might not enable you to start uniting the country, that partisanship will explode on Capitol Hill? And can you share with us any other steps you might take besides appointing Secretary Mineta here to help that process?

A. Well, yes, I intend to continue to reach out to Democrats, to discuss with Democrats ways to get an education bill through the Congress or ways to work on patients' bill of rights or Medicare reform. I understand how the legislative process works. I really understand it when there's a split Senate in terms of reaching out to both parties.
The first part of your question was about Senator Ashcroft. Do I worry that a nomination battle is going to make it harder for me to unite -- ? No, I don't.
I mean, nomination battles are part and parcel of the country. There's going to be some tough questioning. But I'm confident that when people look at John Ashcroft's record and listen to what he has to say and realize that he's going to enforce the law and not politicize the attorney general's office, he will be confirmed. . . . 

Q. You've talked about through the campaign that you and the vice president, Gore, raised many of the same issues although you differ on the proposed solutions. And no disrespect intended, sir, the other side got -- more voters sided with the issues of the other side. So to what extent are you in a mind-set to embrace some of the issues offered by the other side?

A. Well, first, had I thought the campaign was -- the candidate who won the most votes would be the president, I would have campaigned differently. For example, I might have spent a little more time and a little more money in my own state of Texas trying to maximize the popular vote. But I campaigned as if the one who got the most electoral votes would become the president.
Secondly, I believe the reason I'm standing here is because of the agenda I articulated during the course of the campaign. And I intend to take that agenda that I tried to spell out as clearly as I could to the American people to the halls of Congress. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text; Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (73%); POLITICS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US); ENERGY DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (78%) MINETA, NORMAN Y; CHAVEZ, LINDA; ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



41 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Liberties; 
The Age of Mars

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Mommy's gone.
 Daddy's home. 
 The nurturing, sharing, empathizing, self-examining, gossiping, bumping, grinding administration is leaving.
The stern disciplinarians are on board.
The "Let's figure out how we all feel about this" White House is over.
The "We know what's best, follow our rules" White House is beginning. 
The lip-biting is over.
The tight lips are here.
We are losing a secretary of state who thinks flirting and dancing and strategic jewelry wearing are all valuable diplomatic skills.
Now we will have a trio of presidential counselors -- including the secretary of state -- who hail from the macho world of the Pentagon.
We will no longer have a president who is dying to know what we think and who is dying to tell us what he thinks, preferably at great length.
Now we will have a president who thinks introspection is for sissies and justifying your actions is a nuisance. 
We are saying goodbye to a president, elected by women, who talked about What Women Want, who handed over large chunks of government to his wife, and who even read Deborah Tannen to see how to better communicate with women.
We are saying hello to a president, elected by white men and absentee military ballots, who defended executions and guns and wants to beef up the military, and who reads about hurricanes and sports figures.
We are going from Clinton Technicolor to Bush black-and-white. There is nothing about the government President-elect W. is putting together that feels the least bit modern.
"The new administration is 'Nick at Nite,' " cracked a Clinton White House official. "It feels so old, it's almost a kinescope."
W. and Colin Powell were spotted at Morton's steak house digging into juicy porterhouses. Rummy Rumsfeld wants to revive the cold-war dream of a missile shield.
Where is W.'s boomerness? Why is such a young president acting so atavistic?
Our first boomer president and vice president tried so aggressively to be modern. There were gurus, facilitators, Blackberrys.
But the second boomer president is doing everything he can to get the power out of boomers' hands and back into those of the gray generation between World War II and Vietnam.
Bill Clinton was the first Age of Aquarius chief executive. But at Yale, W. was largely oblivious to the social upheaval of the 60's. He said he never liked the Beatles after they got into that "kind of a weird psychedelic period." W. is not a Renaissance Weekend guy. He's a Boca Grande guy. 
If Bill and Al tried too hard to be trendy, W. tries too hard not to be.
He has a defiant anti-trendy streak, curling his lip at fads and fashions and the Clinton-Gore style of finger-in-the-wind.
Despite the multi-gender, multicultural cast of some of his top appointments, and despite the relentless parade of women and ethnic entertainers at the Philadelphia convention and planned for the inaugural, his big choices -- the roomful of men he will rely on to tell him what to do -- reflect a bland, unadventurous adherence to tradition.
His inner circle has a very mahogany-corporate-suite, musty-men's-club feel to it, an "I Like Ike" feel. 
When W. met the press with his choice for attorney general, John Ashcroft, before Christmas, he vividly showed how important it is to him that his White House be as leak-proof as the Skull & Bones "tomb." 
"When he gives me his legal advice," W. said of Mr. Ashcroft, "you won't know about it unless I tell you." In a little while he added: "Whatever counsel it is, I hope I don't read about it." And a little later he told his designee: "Just don't tell them what your advice is."
W. is having the same two-day economic summit that Bill Clinton had before his administration began. But unlike Mr. Clinton -- who dazzled reporters and those who watched the forum on television -- Mr. Bush will discuss his prepackaged recession with business and Wall Street big shots in the privacy of the governor's mansion in Austin. The event will be closed to TV and the press. 
I can already tell that W.'s vexed answer, when he is asked to justify anything, will be identical to his father's: "If you're so smart, why aren't you president?" 
Just call it the drowning of the Age of Aquarius. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (74%); WOMEN (72%); COLD WAR (70%); MEN (70%); WEATHER (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); WORLD WAR II (65%); ATHLETES (50%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%) DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2001 



42 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Old Heating Idea Heats Up 

BYLINE:  By JULIE V. IOVINE 

 BODY:
IF it wasn't bad enough that the fashions and haircuts of the 1970's are back, now we have loose-cannon gas and oil prices. 
 During the 70's energy crisis, the environmental movement offered unwieldy solar panels stuck on the sides of houses, radiant rocks in the basement and monstrous metal windmills grinding in the breeze. 
 Geothermal heat pumps -- using earth's constant temperatures to heat and cool air pumped through buildings -- didn't get the attention that flashier energy choices did. But while solar panels and windmills for the home dropped from favor as fast as Dr. Scholl's sandals, more efficient and economical geothermal systems have steadily gained ground among homeowners and even the environmentally indifferent. 
"It's a brilliant strategy," said William McDonough, an architect known for his environmental work. "Imagine your building with roots. It's as local as you can get. And all sustainability, like politics, is local."
Converts include President-elect George W. Bush, who installed a geothermal heat pump on his Texas ranch during the election campaign. Howard Newton, a consultant on the job, overheard him explaining to Vice President-elect Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell that geothermal heat is "environmentally hip." 
In 1993, the Environmental Protection Agency proclaimed geothermal heat pumps -- also known as ground-source heat pumps -- to be the most energy-efficient, environmentally clean and cost-effective heating and air-conditioning systems available. Sara Quinn, a spokeswoman for the Geothermal Heat Pump Consortium, a nonprofit trade organization, says that more than half a million geothermal systems have been installed in the United States, half of them in homes. The annual growth rate since 1994, Ms. Quinn said, has been 20 percent. 
In 1995, Dr. Jeffrey Palmer of East Hampton, Conn., invested $26,000 in a geothermal pump for his 3,500-square-foot home, partly because of his daughter's allergies. His heating bills now average $800 a year, in contrast to about $1,500 for his neighbors. His air-conditioning bill never exceeds $74 in summer. Of his low bills, Dr. Palmer said: "I used to brag to all my neighbors. Now that oil prices are going up, I don't want to make them really mad."
For all its promise, geothermal is still unsung and generally unfamiliar to homeowners, especially in Manhattan. Part of the reason is, of course, cost.
In Manhattan, Adam Yarinsky of Aro architects, a firm interested in putting new technologies and experimental materials in the home, said: "I bring it up on every project, and everyone laughs at me. I know it's there theoretically, if only there were some way to take advantage of it."
This is one trend in which the suburbs are leading the cities.
In fact, the most common residential geothermal pumps lend themselves best to homes with plenty of yard for digging wells. Geoexchange technology uses basic plumbing equipment and traditional air-conditioning ducts combined with ground loops buried horizontally or vertically to exploit the constant 55-degree temperatures found in soil and water below the frost line, four to six feet down. A simple electric compressor circulates refrigerant the way a freezer or window air-conditioner does, then cools or heats the air to be distributed through the house. The same ducts used by the air-conditioner in summer distribute hot air in winter. 
That means no oil deliveries, no boilers, no noisy outdoor condensers and no pollution. Andrew Collins, a consulting engineer and advocate of geothermal systems for the home, said that geothermal "started with the Army needing to house a lot of folks used to having heat and air-conditioning." He added, "It went in fast and had only one appliance to maintain."
The expensive part is drilling to put in ground loops. The loops are filled with water or water mixed with a nontoxic antifreeze. The longer the loop, the more heat it can gather from the earth. 
People think Manhattan is inhospitable to geothermal energy because it is built on bedrock. But granite is excellent for transferring heat. The gravel and sand of Brooklyn and Queens are even better.
Without bedrock, wells are typically drilled about 250 feet into the ground, and three are needed to accommodate the 1,500 feet of pipe used by the average 2,500-square-foot home. It costs about $2,500 to drill a single well. Cost efficiency dwindles with increasing size. Carl D. Orio, the president of the Water and Energy Systems Corporation in Atkinson, N.H., and a consultant on geothermal installations since 1974, worked on a 35,000-square-foot home in Sands Point, N.Y., which needed eight wells, five of them just to supply heat and air-conditioning for the master bedroom. 
S MALL surprise that geothermal energy is perceived as only for the rich. Installation for a suburban house can cost $3,000 to $5,000 more than conventional heating and cooling systems in new homes, which generally cost less than $20,000. The geothermal payback can take at least three years. Some utility companies provide grants or rebates to encourage homeowners to go geothermal. 
Sy Soobitsky, a teacher in Higganum, Conn., took advantage of a Northeast Utilities program, which offered him $6,000 to offset his $22,000 installation bill. "We're more than happy," he said. "I was a believer all along, but I never thought it would be possible financially."
Mr. Soobitsky said that his bills for heat and air-conditioning average about $180 a month. In the summer, there is a bonus. The circulating water absorbs the house's heat and can, in turn, heat his water supply free.
On a frigid morning last week, Mr. Soobitsky said he was thankful for an electric heater, which turns on automatically when temperatures remain below freezing. Geothermal heat tends to be frustratingly even, and complaints focus on its inability to make a room toasty warm. 
Others find the dry air unappealing and have installed radiant heat floors (still powered by geothermal energy). And the ducts tend to be placed where they are best for air-conditioning, not heat: up high. "I object to using the same air ducts," Mr. Collins, the consulting engineer, said. "Coupling it with radiant floors is a marriage made in heaven."
In Manhattan, wells are driven straight through bedrock, sometimes as deep as 1,500 feet, to reach the constant temperatures of groundwater. The first high-profile installation was in 1997 at the East 64th Street town house of Theodore W. Kheel, the labor negotiator and philanthropist, who wanted to showcase advanced environmental design. The project proved overambitious, and Mr. Kheel abandoned it after two 1,500-foot wells were drilled at a cost of $100,000. Tommy Mottola, the chairman of Sony Music Entertainment, was the next resident, and three weeks ago, said Mr. Orio of Water and Energy Systems, who was the consultant on the job, the geothermal pumps were activated for the first time.
A handful of other homes in New York are about to go geothermal. Last week, a geothermal well was struck for a brownstone on West 86th Street. And drilling will begin next week at new town houses on Reade Street (see article, page 7 of this section). John L. Petrarca, the developer of that project, plans to convert a loft building on Laight Street to geothermal. And in Battery Park City, a 26-story "green" apartment building will be partly geothermal.
The technology does not lend itself to high-rises (it would have taken as many as 300 wells to supply the entire green building in Battery Park City), and finding room to drill presents a special challenge in crowded cities. Since it is hard to maneuver a drilling derrick behind a town house, the sidewalks are the way in. Recent drillings have been made easier because the homeowners, having inherited old coal cellars, also had rights to the sidewalk. 
And then there are subway tunnels. But "we certainly don't want to go near them," Mr. Orio said, adding, "Luckily, we have all the maps."

GRAPHIC: Photo: DIG IT -- Geothermal is inexpensive -- once you have the well. One was drilled last week for a house on West 86th Street. (Meg Henson for The New York Times)(pg. F1) Chart: "Using the Earth to Lower Monthly Bills"Geothermal heating systems use the ground's constant 55-degree temperature to heat or cool air, which is circulated in the home. The earth acts as a heat sink or source, using loops of piping. Here are four common designs: HORIZONTAL GROUND LOOP The loop is buried in trenches four to six feet deep in the yard. This method is cost-effective to install in new homes where digging is easily done. VERTICAL GROUND LOOPPiping is run to a series of holes bored 200 to 300 feet in the ground. This design works best for large heating loads and where yard space is limited. STANDING COLUMN WELLA six-inch-diameter pipe, driven into bedrock, is filled with groundwater, which is pumped out from the bottom and returned at the top. This method is preferred for cities. OPEN LOOPWhere groundwater is plentiful, a well can be used to tap directly into temperate water, which is then pumped to the home and pumped back to the ground by means of a discharge well. (The New York Times/Illustration by John Papasian)(pg. F8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (93%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); HVAC SYSTEMS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); POLITICS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (67%) GEOTHERMAL POWER 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) IOVINE, JULIE V 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



43 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 CRUDE OIL GAINS. Crude oil rose after an unexpected interest rate cut spurred optimism for a stronger economy that would lift demand. In New York, crude oil for February delivery rose 79 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $28 a barrel.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since July 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (85%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



44 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR RALLIES. The dollar surged against the euro after a surprise interest rate cut eased concern the economy is headed for a recession. In New York, the euro settled at 92.85 cents, down from 95.03 cents on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the dollar to the dollar, since July 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EURO (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTEREST RATES (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (85%) CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



45 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Construction Spending Is Down 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Construction spending fell in November, the first drop in four months, but remained at a level suggesting that builders have escaped the economic slowdown, government figures showed today.
 The 0.6 percent decrease in spending in November, to $815.6 billion at an annual rate, came after a 0.8 percent increase in October, the Commerce Department reported. Compared with figures in the month a year earlier, spending was up 5 percent. 
 A drop in outlays on public works and home improvements led the November decline, the largest since spending fell 0.7 percent in July, the last decrease. Still, spending on single-family homes increased for the first time in eight months. It also increased on apartments, condominiums and town houses and on industrial projects and public schools.
Spending on residential construction, which accounted for 43 percent of the value of all building in November, fell 1.5 percent during November, to a $353.8 billion pace after climbing 2.1 percent a month earlier. That reflected a 6.3 percent, or $6.7 billion, drop in spending on home improvements.
Spending on single-family home construction rose 0.3 percent in November -- the first increase since March -- after falling 0.1 percent in October.
Spending on apartments, condominiums and town houses rose 2.9 percent in November after rising 4.9 percent a month earlier.
Falling mortgage rates have buttressed housing even with consumer confidence at a two-year low.
Analysts had expected a 0.2 percent increase in construction spending in November after a previously reported gain of 0.9 percent during October.
Mortgage rates are likely to drop even further now that the Federal Reserve has cut interest rates to spur the economy. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to 7.13 percent last week. The rate peaked at 8.64 percent in mid-May and has been below 8 percent since late July, according to Freddie Mac, the nation's second-largest mortgage buyer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (75%) BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); HOUSING 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



46 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: THE RATE CUT; 
Statement About Rates

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's monetary policy panel, decided to lower interest rates: 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points to 6 percent. 
 In a related action, the Board of Governors approved a 25-basis-point decrease in the discount rate to 5 3/4 percent, the level requested by seven reserve banks. The board also indicated that it stands ready to approve a further reduction of 25 basis points in the discount rate to 5 1/2 percent on the requests of Federal Reserve Banks.
These actions were taken in light of further weakening of sales and production, and in the context of lower consumer confidence, tight conditions in some segments of financial markets and high energy prices sapping household and business purchasing power. Moreover, inflation pressures remain contained. Nonetheless, to date there is little evidence to suggest that longer-term advances in technology and associated gains in productivity are abating. 
The committee continues to believe that, against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. 
In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MONETARY POLICY (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); APPROVALS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



47 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: The Recession We Need 

BYLINE:  By Stephen S. Roach; Stephen S. Roach is chief economist and director of global economics at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.

 BODY:
There can be no mistaking the message of the Federal Reserve's New Year's surprise, a reduction yesterday of one-half of a percentage point in the benchmark interest rate. If the United States economy is not already in recession, it is on the brink of its first downturn in a decade. Why else would the Fed move with such urgency?
 Obviously, a recession should be managed and contained. And if the Fed continues to cut interest rates over the next six months, as it should, it would help set the stage for the next upturn. 
 A mild recession, however, should not be feared. Recessions happen, and for a United States economy plagued with excesses, a downturn may be the only way to purge these reckless tendencies. The United States has had five economic downturns since the 1970's, and these almost always purged the very excesses that can be most hazardous to economic health. 
In the past, the excesses took the form of unwanted inventories, vacant office buildings, unneeded factories or mounting inflation. The Federal Reserve usually stepped in when these imbalances got out of hand. Monetary tightening led to cuts in production, bringing inventories in better alignment with sales. Higher financing costs also tempered the zeal for overbuilding and for credit-based purchases of cars, furniture and appliances.
As output slowed, the unemployment rate rose and consumer confidence sagged. Broader cutbacks in personal spending and capital spending then followed. As the recession deepened, demand was brought into better balance with supply, and inflationary pressures receded. In essence, the economy was cleansed. As painful as this process was -- both in terms of lost jobs and reduced incomes -- it set the stage for the next expansion.
Today's excesses are different. First, Americans are not saving. As of November 2000, the personal savings rate has gone negative, dipping to -0.8 percent of disposable personal income. Compare that to late 1994, when the personal savings rate stood at 6.6 percent; over the previous 45 years it averaged about 8.5 percent.
This plunge in savings reflects an extraordinary disparity between trends in personal income and spending. Since 1995, consumer expenditures have increased 4.4 percent annually, much faster than the 3.3 percent increase in disposable personal income. Never before have American consumers lived so far beyond their means. This cannot persist.
That takes us to a second weakness -- America's stock market bubble. From 1995 to 1999, the frothy stock market tempted many investors to forgo traditional savings strategies, like methodically setting aside funds from paychecks. Instead, investors played the stock market and began to tap newfound wealth. 
Our estimates suggest that this "wealth effect" boosted growth in real consumer spending by as much as one percentage point per year from late 1996 to mid-2000. The stock market, however, can cut both ways. In the past 10 months, the market has plummeted -- yesterday's surge notwithstanding -- and so has consumer demand. 
The stock-market bubble went hand-in-hand with the hype over the so-called new economy, in which many business executives decided that open-ended spending on computers and telecommunications equipment was the recipe for higher productivity and instant prosperity. From 1995 to 1999, the Department of Commerce estimates, such spending by businesses and consumers alike accounted for fully 30 percent of the country's total economic growth.
In the industrial economy, too much capital spending was fully evident in idle factories. In the information age, these excesses have taken the form of too many bits and bytes. While a significant portion of this technology spending can certainly be justified by the dramatic transformation of the economy, there is evidence of indiscriminate technology buying, as well. For instance, companies have spent much too much on unnecessary computer and software upgrades.
 Finally, the economy has created an imbalance in America's economic and financial relationship with the rest of the world. The current account deficit -- which includes foreigners' profits on investments in the United States and Americans' investments in other countries as well as trade in goods and services -- may well have exceeded $440 billion in 2000. That is equivalent to 4.4 percent of our gross national product, a gap never before seen in the modern-day history of the United States. As recently as 1991, the United States current account was in balance.
This deterioration is an unmistakable byproduct of our shortfall in personal savings. Because domestic savings have plunged, America has turned to overseas lenders to finance investments in buildings and capital equipment. Our dependence on foreign capital has never been greater. 
Downturns prompt consumers to become more prudent, encouraging them to turn away from speculative investing in the stock market and to start saving sensibly, by putting aside a portion of their wages. 
Recessions also dampen corporate profits, which disappoint stock market investors, restraining the untamed spending of the wealth effect. The same weak corporate earnings also force companies to cut unneeded technology purchases. Recessions depress imports, too. And fewer imports are the only means by which America can regain control over its large current-account deficit.
Recessions, of course, create a new set of problems: rising unemployment, an increase in business and personal bankruptcies and a diminished federal budget surplus. Correcting the excesses of the 1990's will not be cost-free by any means. And the longer the day of reckoning is postponed, the more painful the fix will ultimately be.
Recessions are not the end of the world. Each of the previous contractions succeeded in ridding the economy of its bad habits. Each downturn was followed by a vigorous recovery. There is little reason to believe that this recession will be any different. A recession may well be a necessary evil -- but it is one that could keep America on the course of prosperity.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); RECESSION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (87%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (86%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (86%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ROACH, STEPHEN S 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



48 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: THE RATE CUT: THE MARKET; 
A Day of Record-Breaking Gains and Trading Volume

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
Wall Street got back its rose-colored glasses yesterday when the Federal Reserve unexpectedly cut interest rates after six rate increases. The move sent the Nasdaq composite index to the biggest one- day percentage gain in its history and led to a record day of trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 "You couldn't hear yourself think on our trading floor," said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at SG Cowen, referring to the moment the news was announced. "It was wild." 
 "The economy has clearly slowed more than they expected," he added. "The destruction of the dot-coms and the Nasdaq took away all of the irrational exuberance."
The surprise was that the Fed took the relatively rare step of lowering rates between its scheduled meetings. The Fed reduced the federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks to 6 percent from 6.5 percent and cut the discount rate, the rate on loans to banks by the Fed, by a quarter-point, to 5.75 percent. The Fed move persuaded many investors that the central bank would keep cutting rates if necessary to avoid a recession, which would improve the outlook for corporate earnings.
It also buoyed the stock market, driving up many stocks that had been shunned for months and hurting some others that have been seen as a haven from technology. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index gained 324.83 points, or 14.2 percent, to 2,616.69. The jump was far ahead of its previous one-day record gain of 10.5 percent set in December. And many individual technology stocks gained more than 20 percent on the day. Bellwethers like Microsoft gained 10.5 percent; Intel was up 10.2 percent and Cisco Systems rose 24 percent. TheStreet.com Internet Index catapulted 19.7 percent higher, after its 74 percent loss last year. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 5 percent, its biggest percentage gain since Sept. 8, 1998, when it gained 5.1 percent. It closed up 64.29 points, to 1,347.56. The biggest percentage gainer in the index was Broadcom, a chip maker, which rose 40.5 percent.
The Dow Jones industrial average had a less stellar day, gaining 2.8 percent, or 299.6 points, to 10,945.75. Sectors that had thrived while technology suffered saw their fortunes reverse yesterday. Oil stocks slumped after Prudential Securities issued a cautious report on the sector. Exxon Mobil fell 4.35 percent and Chevron dropped 3.85 percent. Investors also fled pharmaceutical stocks, one of last year's best sectors. Merck fell 4.2 percent and Pfizer declined 5.6 percent.
For growth and technology investors, it was a day of many rewards after months of losses. John Schreiber, a portfolio manager for Janus Capital, was watching the stock price of Time Warner on his computer screen at his desk in Denver when the price suddenly leapt $3 in about 10 seconds. 
"I knew something must be happening," Mr. Schreiber said, "So I took a lap around our trading desk."
There he found out about the rate cut, which was great news for Janus, one of the nation's largest mutual fund companies and a big bettor on the tech sector. Janus had industry- leading sales in 1999 and 2000, but has slumped deeply in the months since technology stocks started to slide last spring. But not yesterday. Janus was one of the top institutional holders of several of the biggest gainers, including Sapient, which was up 30.6 percent; Veritas Software, which gained 30.9 percent; and Sun Microsystems, which was up 29.7 percent. 
Mr. Schreiber said shortly before the market closed that he believed the $39.2 billion Janus Fund would end the day up roughly 11 percent, the first double-digit percentage gain he could recall. "People are smiling, but I emphasize we're investing for the long term here," he added. 
The euphoria on Wall Street spread to average investors. Jason C. Lefton, 25, a lieutenant in the Army, was spending time with his brother in Times Square, when he looked up at the Nasdaq sign and starting screaming.
"Amazing," he said. He only made about $400 yesterday, but still found plenty to be excited about. The day before, he had bought shares of America Online because it had fallen so much.
"This is big," he said. "This is better than the Super Bowl. It's like scoring a touchdown. Everyone is going crazy."
Many analysts say the Fed move could signal a bottom to the bear market in technology stocks. Mr. Pradilla called it "the beginning of the bottom."
William V. Fries, manager of the $1.6 billion Thornburg Value Fund, said, "I think it could well signal a bottom."
"The market has been concerned that the Fed would remain reluctant and keep fighting the last war, the war against inflation," he said. "It was long awaited and long overdue."
Others were more cautious.
"You have to blend this with the earnings environment," said Paul Cook, manager of the $7.6 billion Munder NetNet fund, the largest mutual fund focused on Internet stocks. After losing 54.2 percent last year, Mr. Cook has reason to be cautious. 
"We've had a lot of earnings preannouncements that have looked kind of poor over the last several months," he said. "I don't think this brings us out of the woods yet, but it is a welcome change of opinion from the Fed."
John K. Hurley, a top partner at Bowman Capital, a $5.5 billion technology hedge fund, said the "half-full view" was that the Fed's move alleviated concerns about an economic slowdown.
"From a half-empty perspective," he added, "a cut today is not going to affect fourth-quarter earnings reports coming out now. If earnings are not so good, it's a coin toss again."
But for average investors, many of whom made so much and then lost so much in technology stocks, yesterday signaled a change.
"Over the last three months, I've moved almost everything into cash after riding a roller coaster all year long," said Ira Smilovitz, a 45-year-old tax preparer in Leonia, N.J., and a member of an investment club that still has much of its money in stocks like Microsoft and Intel.
"I'm definitely going to get back into the market," Mr. Smilovitz added. "I've been waiting for it to stabilize. I'm not saying it can happen in a day, but the Fed's move is certainly a kick-start."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields"Chart shows average for Federal Home Loan Mortage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly since Sept. 2000.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (79%); ELECTRONICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); NEW ISSUES (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (54%); INTEL CORP (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); THESTREET INC (53%); BROADCOM CORP (52%); PFIZER INC (51%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (84%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); TST (NASDAQ) (53%); BRCM (NASDAQ) (52%); PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFEB (BRU) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%); XOM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%)

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



49 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Jury Awards $2.25 Million In '95 Death 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER 

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., Jan. 3 

 BODY:
A federal jury awarded more than $2 million today to the children of a Long Island man who was fatally shot on the street five years ago by a Nassau County police officer.
 The verdict underscored the jury's finding two weeks ago that the officer, Anthony Raymond, violated the civil rights of the man, Christopher Wade, in December 1995 when he shot him nine times after stopping him for a search in an area known for drug activity. In 1996, a grand jury cleared Officer Raymond of criminal wrongdoing in the fatal encounter, and he is now patrolling in the same precinct in Elmont where the shooting occurred, though in a different neighborhood. 
 Today in Federal District Court in Central Islip, jurors awarded $2.075 million in compensatory damages -- including money for pain and suffering, funeral costs and the loss of parental support Mr. Wade would have provided had he lived. The eight-member jury also awarded $175,000 in punitive damages, after deliberating for 13 days -- an unusually long time for a federal lawsuit, said the county's lawyer, Paul F. Millus. 
Nassau County is obligated to pay the damages on behalf of Officer Raymond, in line with state law and its police contract. Mr. Millus refused to say whether the county would appeal. Alan J. Reardon, a lawyer for the officer, said an appeal was likely.
On Friday, the county is to defend itself against the Wade family's claim that it was negligent in hiring and in not properly supervising Officer Raymond, who had been arrested twice and was the subject of complaints as a New York City police officer. The judge is to decide whether to go forward in the case, both sides said.
The plaintiffs had offered to withdraw their claim if the county agreed to bear some responsibility for the death of Mr. Wade, and consider setting up an independent review board, made up of civilians, to investigate complaints against officers that are deemed unsubstantiated by the Police Department. But Mr. Millus turned down the offer last week, and said today that the county had done nothing wrong in hiring Officer Raymond.
Frederick K. Brewington, the Wades' lawyer, said the claim against Nassau "has a potentially enormous impact on bringing an awareness to a county that needs to understand that something is broken and needs to be fixed."
Mr. Wade, 28, of Elmont, was the father of three young children, and his family said the finding today would guarantee some economic stability for his two sons and daughter, ages 4 through 10.
"I am happy that Chris's death did not go in vain," said Ervie Augustin, 26, who was Mr. Wade's fiancee and is the mother of his youngest child. "And I am happy that his three children will have a better life."
The family and Mr. Brewington said today's verdict also provided a sense of justice in a case that led to bitterness and racial animosity in Elmont, a community already mistrustful of the police. Mr. Wade's friends said they believed he had been shot because he was black; the police denied that, saying that Officer Raymond, who is white, had feared for his life.
Shortly after 3 a.m. on Dec. 30, 1995, Officer Raymond confronted Mr. Wade, who was on parole for a drug conviction, on a dark street in Elmont. They struggled, and Officer Raymond fired 16 times after Mr. Wade did not obey repeated demands to drop his weapon, the police said.
Mr. Brewington insisted that Mr. Wade was not armed. A loaded gun was found at the scene, but it had not been fired and bore no fingerprints, Mr. Reardon said.
Officer Raymond, 37, has been arrested twice. As a teenage gas station attendant, he was accused of stealing $250 from his employer. Later, as an officer in the New York Police Department, he was charged with assault and official misconduct in an on-duty brawl outside a Queens bar. He was also named in 10 civilian complaints, including 19 separate allegations of wrongdoing, during his career of nearly 11 years on the city force.
But Mr. Millus said all of the criminal charges were dismissed, and the complaints to the city's Civilian Complaint Review Board were unsubstantiated -- meaning that they could be neither proved nor disproved. He said Officer Raymond had made more than 1,100 arrests in the city and received 35 commendations and other awards.
"It was an entirely valid and appropriate hiring with no fault to be attributed in connection with the hiring decision," Mr. Millus said. "Nassau County would have no reason to believe that previously dismissed criminal charges should in any way interfere with Officer Raymond's goal of serving the citizenry of Nassau County."
Mr. Brewington, the Wades' lawyer, cited a report by Edward Mamet, a retired New York police captain he hired for the case, that said the Nassau department should never have hired Officer Raymond in 1994.
"The hiring and supervision of Police Officer Raymond was improper," Mr. Mamet wrote in April 1999. "It is my opinion that N.C.P.D. failed to seize a unique opportunity to weed out a 'violence prone' recruit." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (92%); DAMAGES (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); VERDICTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); NEGLIGENCE (74%); GRAND JURY (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); ARRESTS (72%) POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

PERSON: BAKER, AL; WADE, CHRISTOPHER; RAYMOND, ANTHONY (POLICE OFFICER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NASSAU COUNTY (NY); ELMONT (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



50 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
 Fed Cuts Interest Rates, Sending Markets Soaring
Confronted with increased evidence of a stalling economy, the Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point, stunning investors and sending a powerful signal that the Fed is worried about the prospects for keeping the expansion alive.
 Acting between scheduled meetings, the central bank cut its federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks to 6 percent from 6.5 percent. In a statement, it then signaled that it is likely to cut rates further in coming weeks and months. The rate cut sent all the major stock indexes higher. Page A1. 

Delta Is Facing United-Like Trouble
Delta Air Lines may be facing the same kind of public relations disaster that United Airlines had last summer. Thousands of passengers limped home over the New Year's holiday after Delta canceled more than 2,000 flights. Rival carriers were also disrupted by storms, but Delta's problems were much worse, the airline said, because its pilots are refusing to fly overtime as part of a plan to press the company at the bargaining table. C4.

Construction Spending Falls 0.6%
Construction spending fell in November, the first drop in four months, but remained at a level suggesting that builders have escaped the economic slowdown, government figures showed. The 0.6 percent decrease in spending in November, to $815.6 billion at an annual rate, came after a 0.8 percent increase in October, the Commerce Department reported. Compared with figures in the month a year earlier, spending was up 5 percent. C2.

Starbucks and Microsoft in Web Deal
Starbucks and Microsoft said they would join forces to offer wireless access to the Internet from Starbucks coffeehouses. Starbucks said the service would be available in 70 percent of its 4,000 stores within two years. C4.

Bush Names an Economic Adviser
Lawrence B. Lindsey was selected as White House economic adviser, formalizing his role as the incoming administration's top thinker on economic matters. C8.

Higher Electricity Rates Proposed
California's Public Utilities Commission proposed a roughly 10 percent increase in electricity rates, but financial analysts said it was too little and predicted that the state's energy crisis was likely to grow far worse. A25.

Labor Violations Cited at Pork Plant
Managers at Smithfield Packing's slaughterhouse in Tar Heel, N.C., committed "egregious and pervasive" labor law violations during two unionizing campaigns in the 1990's, an administrative law judge has ruled. A18.

New Chairman at Fox Television
The News Corporation named a new chairman for the Fox Television division, selecting Brian C. Mulligan, left, a former executive for Seagram and Universal Pictures. Mr. Mulligan will succeed Chase Carey who led Fox Television until last June, when he was named president of News Corporation's Sky Global Networks. Mr. Mulligan had previously served as the chief financial officer of Seagram. C6.

Bias Suit Filed Against Microsoft
Seven former and current employees of Microsoft filed a lawsuit contending that the company had engaged in racial discrimination. C4.

Still a Need for Unemployment Funds
Perhaps believing the good times of the 1990's would never end, many states failed to replenish their unemployment insurance funds or make changes that would strengthen the system, which still serves a valuable purpose. Alan B. Krueger: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart tracks Construction Spending's progress since June 2000. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,945.75 up 299.60Nasdaq composite -- 2,616.69 up 324.8310-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.16% up 0.25The euro -- $0.9285 down 0.0218The dollar -- 113.63 down 0.76 Graph: "TODAY" shows "Factory Orders"November figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.3%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); UTILITY RATES (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (87%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (85%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (83%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (75%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (74%); PORK (73%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (69%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (64%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (61%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (54%); JUDGES (50%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); RETAILERS (50%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (50%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%); NEWS CORP (62%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); NWS (NASDAQ) (62%); NWS (ASX) (62%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: CHASE CAREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



51 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Governor Pataki's Wish List 

 BODY:
Gov. George Pataki offered New Yorkers a broadly appealing menu of promises yesterday on education, the environment, gun control and reform of state drug laws. But as veterans of Albany wisely cautioned, the governor's seventh State of the State address is simply a speech, perhaps even the launching of his campaign for re-election in 2002. His state budget, which should give dimension to these proposals, appears with all its promise -- or potentially deflating details -- in the next few weeks. 
 Still, there were heartening ideas in this year's package. Mr. Pataki promised to "dramatically reform" New York's unfair Rockefeller drug laws, which have packed the state's prisons with nonviolent drug users. Genuine reform of these draconian laws is long overdue. Another law enforcement measure -- creation of a special police unit to stop trafficking of illegal guns across state lines -- would add muscle to the governor's stringent gun-control law enacted last year. 
 The governor sought to add to his environmental record by pledging to push for reauthorization of the state's vital Superfund program to help clean up toxic waste sites and by announcing the acquisition of 26,000 more acres of protected Adirondack lands. But he shied away from assuming state responsibility for assessing or coping with the skyrocketing prices for electricity last summer and for heating oil this winter.
With Florida's voting fiasco a fresh memory, the governor also suggested, correctly, that it was time to look at balloting problems in New York State. He is expected to propose a commission to study ways to improve both the voting process and the counting of ballots. Mr. Pataki showed bad faith, however, in omitting mention of his own proposal on campaign finance reform, which was announced with little fanfare in 1999 but did not even make his long wish list this year. 
The governor made potentially dramatic proposals in education, including a pitch for mayoral control of schools and a plan to revamp the state's school aid formula. He would consolidate the 11 current funding categories, which are so complicated that few school officials fully understand them, into one "flexible, easy-to-use aid category." But skeptics will need to read the fine print of the budget to see whether this actually benefits New York City's students, who have been shortchanged in the state education formulas for many years.
Mr. Pataki too often leans over backward to help his political friends in the upstate regions, and this year's opening legislative address was no exception. He proposed a series of tax cuts and economic incentives for businesses and the elderly, mostly upstate, that sound worthy but deserve careful scrutiny, not least because the state might not be able to afford such expenses if the economy cools.
The governor's opening salvo gives only the barest outline of this year's legislative possibilities. At this stage, the rhetoric sounds promising but the reality will emerge only when he provides the budgetary details. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG POLICY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SUPERFUND (78%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FIREARMS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (76%); BALLOTS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); TAX LAW (73%); MAYORS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); POLITICS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (67%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (53%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NYS); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



52 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: California Board Proposes Increase in Electric Rates 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Under enormous pressure to bring some relief to California's struggling utilities, the state's Public Utility Commission proposed a roughly 10 percent increase today in what consumers would pay for electricity, but financial analysts said it was too little and that the state's energy crisis was likely to grow far worse.
 Even as some consumer groups said no increase was justified, the utilities complained that the proposals, far below the nearly 30 percent rise they had been seeking, would not stop their slide toward bankruptcy because of the rocketing prices they are being forced to pay for power on the wholesale market. The agency's commissioners are expected to vote on the rate proposals on Thursday. 
 The proposed rate changes came on a day when the state's energy problems started to move from the regulatory realm to the political realm, as Gov. Gray Davis opened a special session of the Legislature to consider suggestions for fixing a power system that most experts have declared a near total failure in market deregulation. 
The financial implications of the utility commission's proposal were clear immediately. On a day that stock markets shot up because of a big cut in interest rates by the Federal Reserve, the shares of the state's two largest utilities, Southern California Edison and the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, plummeted. 
In addition, some analysts said the agencies that rate the utilities' creditworthiness could immediately downgrade them substantially. That would make it harder for the companies not only to borrow more money, but also to buy the power they need to operate on the open market.
"We don't think we even got close to what the financial community needed," said John Fielder, the head of regulatory affairs for Southern California Edison, a unit of Edison International. "Either they don't fully understand what the situation is or they may not believe it's such a bad thing to put the utilities into bankruptcy."
As the utilities struggle, Governor Davis outlined modest proposals for reform. He is expected to present more details at his annual address to the Legislature, scheduled for Monday. Politically, the governor and the Legislature face an almost impossible balancing act, trying to mediate the needs of the utilities and the demands of consumers. 
Governor Davis, who has fashioned himself a centrist and a New Democrat inclined more toward markets than state control, must take strong actions that protect both businesses and consumers, political experts said, while not intervening in the markets so much that he would be vulnerable to criticism that he is an old-fashioned liberal. 
"Whatever the solution is, it's going to be tough," Robert M. Hertzberg, the speaker of the State Assembly, said. "It's going to have to be strong, but that is going to bring it up against those philosophical issues."
Democrats control both houses of the Legislature and have suggested several proposals, most more radical than the governor's, which would reimpose more state control over the power system.
John Burton, the president of the State Senate, said in an interview that about the only proposal not on the table was the only one that just about everybody would support: going back to the regulated system that existed until a few years ago, when the state began its experiment in deregulation.
"I wish we could do that, but we don't know how at this point," Senator Burton said. "It's like putting toothpaste back in the tube."
He predicted that the issue had become such a lightning rod that it was bound to exact some political price for all those involved, especially Governor Davis, whose two years in office have left him with high marks and mention as a potential candidate for the White House in 2004. 
Mark Baldassare, a senior fellow at the nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California, said, "I believe the governor's quite concerned that if there are brownouts around the state this summer or worse he will pay a high political price."
When the Legislature unanimously passed the deregulation law in 1996 under Mr. Davis's predecessor, Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, there was a large surplus of power in the West and California's consumers were expected to be the beneficiary of strong price competition.
Since then, however, demand has grown strongly in California and other states because of the robust economy and an expanding population. 
At the same time, the Legislature had put the utilities in a vise. While the companies have to pay market rates for their power, the rates they can charge consumers remain regulated until March 2002. As a result, the utilities say, they have been paying as much $1 for each kilowatt of power, but can charge only about 6.5 cents.
Southern California Edison said that in December alone it paid $1.1 billion more for its power than it could charge, and that the rate increase proposed today would allow it to recoup just $65 million of that, not enough to stave off bankruptcy. 
The markets expressed their disappointment today by driving down Edison's stock $2.75 to $12.25, while Pacific Gas and Electric shares fell $2.56 to $17.
The utility commission's proposals were for an initial 90-day period and included increases from 9 percent for most residential users to 15 percent for large industrial users. Low-income people would be exempted, and the increase in rates would go not to the utilities directly but to a special account that the commission would manage.
Some experts say there may not be much time to act. In the summer, which comes early in the state, demand is expected to soar to as much as 50,000 megawatts in the deregulated part of the market, according to the Independent System Operator, the state body created to oversee the wholesale power market, creating the prospect of even higher prices and rolling blackouts because of shortages in supplies. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 10, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a proposal to raise electric rates in California misstated the name of the agency considering the increase. It is the Public Utilities Commission, not Utility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UTILITIES INDUSTRY (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (91%); PG&E CORP (91%); EDISON INTERNATIONAL (65%)

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (91%); PCG (NYSE) (91%); EIX (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (91%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (65%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



53 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Calls for Local Control Of Most State Aid to Schools 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki used his annual address to the Legislature today to call on lawmakers to streamline the way the state pays for education, to give local districts much more control over how they spend such aid.
 Apparently laying the groundwork for a campaign for a third term, the governor, in his hourlong address, promoted a laundry list of proposals, including the use of public money to promote high-tech industries, cuts in property taxes for farmers and the elderly, and a revamping of the Rockefeller drug laws. 
 But the centerpiece was a proposal to simplify the state's complex method of subsidizing local school districts. Instead of having 11 different streams of money earmarked for particular purposes in the schools, the governor proposed that the state consolidate such aid into one grant that local school officials would control. 
"The time has come to fix a fundamental flaw that ties the hands of local schools -- the dinosaur that is the state school aid formula," Mr. Pataki said. "This year we should throw out the incomprehensible school aid formula and instead give school districts the flexibility they need to put these resources to use in the most efficient manner possible."
The governor did not spell out which programs' money would be collapsed into a single grant, though he said it would change how the state doled out about $10 billion in aid, the bulk of its $13 billion in assistance to local schools. Under the current system, districts receive that money in part based on the number of students enrolled in a host of programs, like bilingual education, preschool and special education.
Leaders in the Senate and the Assembly said any plan to overhaul the state school aid formulas would face an uphill political battle. Many of the special streams of revenue have been devised over the years by urban Democrats trying to funnel more money to schools in cities. 
Sheldon Silver, the Democratic speaker of the Assembly, said the governor was "hiding behind the cloak of reform" while actually threatening to cut funds for needed programs. "I think we are suggesting significant cutbacks in education, and that I don't like," he said.
Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, said that while he agreed with Mr. Pataki on the need to simplify education formulas, tinkering with school financing would be politically tricky, since city and upstate lawmakers always fight to preserve their shares of the pie. "That will probably be the most difficult thing we will have to negotiate to get a budget done," he said.
One measure of the difficulties is that New York City is currently in court trying to wrest a larger portion of state education aid, claiming that its share of assistance is not in proportion to its share of students. The governor, while not specific, said a larger portion of aid should go to New York City and other "high needs" districts.
The address by Mr. Pataki, who six years ago became the state's first Republican governor in 20 years, began with his asking Democrats and Republicans to rise above the bitter partisanship that characterized the recent national elections. 
"Some may think that now is the time to fight harder for partisan advantage, in the hopes of gaining a stronger hand in the years to come," the governor said. "I hope not. Because the elections are over and the real work, the task of governing, is now before us."
Yet many legislators saw the speech as the opening salvo in the governor's expected re-election campaign. He dwelled on his accomplishments over the last six years, including cutting taxes, reducing bureaucracy and creating jobs through tax incentives for businesses.
On the economic front, he proposed investing $1 billion to promote the development of biotechnology industries. He also called for cuts in taxes for manufacturers, the elderly and farmers, and proposed a new program to crack down on gun traffickers.
Despite Mr. Pataki's plea for bipartisan cooperation, Democratic criticism of his speech began as soon as he had stepped down from the podium in the cavernous Assembly chamber.
H. Carl McCall, the Democratic state comptroller who has said he is considering running for governor in 2002, immediately derided Mr. Pataki's speech as "nothing but a laundry list of small achievements and shallow plans."
Mr. Silver, meanwhile, accused the governor of stealing the credit for several Democratic initiatives, among them the establishment of "empire zones," blighted areas in which the state has given companies financial incentives to invest.
In his speech, the governor proposed doubling the size of 22 of these zones. "I'm glad the governor adopted many Democratic programs," Mr. Silver said. He added that Mr. Pataki appeared to be appropriating issues dear to Democrats, like gun control, as part of a strategy to win a third term.
"This was the kickoff for his next re-election campaign," he said.
Besides calling for revamping the way the state finances education, Mr. Pataki proposed, as he has in the past, putting big-city districts under the control of mayors. He also proposed doubling the amount of money for scholarships to college students who promise to become teachers, allowing retirees to teach school without losing retirement benefits and doubling the money for after-school programs over the next five years. He also said he would propose a new summer school program to teach immigrant children English.
On medical care, Mr. Pataki said his budget, to be unveiled Jan. 16, would propose allowing disabled and mentally ill people to buy health insurance through the Medicaid program, a plan he opposed last year.
"People with disabilities should not have to choose between going to work or having health insurance," he said. He also promised to make it easier for uninsured women with cervical or breast cancer to qualify for Medicaid.
Perhaps responding to the strong showing that Hillary Rodham Clinton made in upstate New York during the United States Senate race, Mr. Pataki unveiled a raft of proposals meant to create jobs in communities outside the New York City region. Besides calling for the expansion of empire zones, he asked lawmakers to eliminate payroll and property taxes for manufacturers and to give tax credits to businesses that clean up and build plants on defunct industrial sites.
But the most significant economic initiative in the governor's speech was a program that would use $283 million in state funds and nearly $700 million in federal and private sector money over the next five years.
The money would be used to pay for three "centers of excellence," in Buffalo, Rochester and Albany, where university researchers would create partnerships with technological industries. The hope, the governor said, is to make New York a leader in cutting-edge fields like bioinfomatics, in which computers are used to decipher genes and proteins, and nanoelectronics, in which computer chips are developed to replace damaged nerves.
Mr. Pataki also returned to one of the bedrock themes that has made him popular: crime. He proposed expanding a database of genetic information about criminals to include everyone convicted of a crime, not just violent felons. He also said new DNA technology, which allows detectives to solve some crimes that are decades old, had made the notion of a statute of limitations on some crimes obsolete.
The speech was also notable for what Mr. Pataki gave short shrift to. He made a passing reference to concerns about New York's antiquated system of voting, but offered no plans to address those concerns. 
And he spent little time on plans to combat steep increases in the cost of electricity as a result of the deregulation of utility companies two years ago. The governor said he would lobby Congress to give the state more authority to control prices.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many legislators said Gov. George E. Pataki's address to the Legislature yesterday was part of a strategy to win a third term in Albany. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); DRUG POLICY (75%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); MULTILINGUALISM (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); CITY LIFE (67%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NYS); FINANCES; BIOTECHNOLOGY; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; AGED; AGRICULTURE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL) 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); SILVER, SHELDON (SPEAKER); BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



54 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2198 words

HEADLINE: Out of Africa or Bust, With a Desert to Cross 

BYLINE:  By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

DATELINE: DIRKOU, Niger 

 BODY:
On the windswept outskirts of this desert outpost, where the Sahara unfolds to the end of the horizon, a big truck came to a dusty stop the other day. A couple of dozen African men swarmed around the truck, trading sharp words and elbows, as they jostled one another to reach the driver's side.
 Four of them struck a deal. They scrambled to perch on the truck's roof. With their legs dangling before the windshield, the truck rumbled away into the Sahara, heading north on tracks in the sand, to Libya. 
 Of those left behind, literally in a cloud of dust, most had come from neighboring Nigeria. They wore wool hats and heavy jackets, carried blankets and water bottles -- all necessary for a long journey into the Sahara, where nighttime temperatures drop to near-freezing this time of the year. They did not want to talk. They did not want to say the obvious -- where they were going. 
"No, nowhere," one said angrily. "I'm going nowhere."
So what were a bunch of Nigerians doing here in a foreign country, hundreds of miles from the nearest city and from their own border, standing in the middle of the world's greatest desert, waiting for a ride in Dirkou, on the edge of oblivion?
The answer was clear to all, including the soldiers, policemen and customs officers who had been watching all this. It was clear in Niamey, the capital of this West African country, and perhaps all over West and Central Africa.
Dirkou is the last sub-Saharan stop on one of the continent's greatest, and possibly most dangerous, smuggling routes: Africans travel hundreds of miles through desert to arrive here and board Libyan trucks that take them across the remaining expanses of the Sahara into North Africa. There the migrants stay to work, or they save up the money to jump to Europe and even America, where some may end up in New York restaurants and grocery stores.
The smuggling route could not be ignored after recent events in Libya, whose oil-rich economy and pan-African policies espoused by its leader, Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, have made it the migrants' favorite destination. In October, after rumors swirled near Tripoli that a Nigerian had raped a Libyan girl, Libyans killed or hurt thousands of African expatriates, lynching a Chadian diplomat and burning down the Niger Embassy. In a sudden reversal of the exodus, tens of thousands of Africans were herded into buses and trucks, and then dumped in the desert south of Libya. Thousands more were expelled by the planeload to Nigeria and Ghana.
And yet after a two-month lull, Africans are flocking again to Dirkou on their way to Libya. The surprisingly quick resumption in the exodus is perhaps a reflection of Africa's steep and general decline in recent years. It is a continent hobbled by wars, disease and rapacious leaders -- where onetime regional magnets like the Ivory Coast and South Africa have been breaking down politically or economically. Ordinary Africans are now finding it hard to survive, much less to have hope of improving their condition.
The decline has caused, in Africa's thin upper reaches, a brain drain to the West. But here in the desert of Dirkou, a world away from the airports that ferry visa-holding physicians from Nigeria and Ghana to London and New York, it is the exodus of the lowest rung -- young African men with little or no education. Some of them border on criminality; others are engaged outright in smuggling products like heroin, or just ordinary people looking for a chance to improve their lives.
Dirkou is booming, though it is constantly on edge because of its combustible mix of soldiers, smugglers, migrants, rebels from neighboring Chad and other shadowy desert dwellers. In the last year, the number of mud-brick houses has doubled; more are under construction. Cars are now sold here. The pockets of Jerome the Libyan fuel dealer, a fixture, are fuller; Mama Nigeria has just opened her restaurant. Dirkou has even begun to draw young Nigerois like Idrissa Ismail, 19, from Tahoua, 500 miles away.
"There's a lot of money to be made here in Dirkou because a lot of people are coming and a lot of people are going," said Mr. Ismail, who was changing local francs for Libyan dinars on the town's outskirts. Since coming here last month, he said, he has averaged $3 a day in profit -- a huge sum in a country where petty merchants might clear $7 a month.
Before making it here, migrants entering Niger pass through Agadez, about 350 miles southwest, which, like Timbuktu in neighboring Mali, has served for centuries as a gateway between black Africa to the south and Arab Africa to the north.
In Agadez, in a highly organized smuggling system, middlemen from the subregion direct their countrymen to one of the dealers in the Agadez-Dirkou route. At the bus station, the biggest dealer is Dodo Aboube, who hands the middlemen $3 for each passenger he receives.
Mr. Aboube charges travelers with passports $15 for a one-way ticket to Dirkou. Since he estimated that 80 percent of the passengers lacked papers, most also paid what could be called a corruption surcharge of $7. Four security checkpoints dot the desert between Agadez and Dirkou, Mr. Aboube explained, and the authorities have to be bribed at each point to let the travelers through without documents.
"The surcharge they pay at the beginning makes it easier for everyone along the way," Mr. Aboube said, inside a straw shack that served as his office. "Our drivers handle everything at the checkpoints."
He added, "In every case, this is done with the complicity of the authorities."
Outside, a single open-air truck charged with goods was being overloaded, cattlelike, with a hundred or so passengers. With countless bottles, tires, jerrycans and sacks hanging from the sides, the truck looked less like a vehicle than a moving mountain. At night, in the dead stillness of the Sahara, when camel caravans and other travelers have set up camp to sleep, aging trucks like this one thunder through the desert, the roar of their engines and the beams of their headlights discernible from miles away.
"Our trucks don't even meet the conditions for safe travel, but we manage somehow," Mr. Aboube said. "If they break down, the desert is the desert. People can die after a couple of days in the desert."
Over the course of three days, Guineans, Nigerians, Ghanaians, Cameroonians, Congolese, as well as Nigerois, passed through the bus station. One afternoon, a Ghanaian and a Nigerian waited for the next bus. Both had been deported from Libya in October but were returning.
Joe Mensah, 29, had come from Accra, Ghana's capital, where he had given his family $500 he had managed to save during four years as a painter in Libya. He had saved more, he said, but Libyans had destroyed his luggage. Now he was going to cross the Sahara again.
"It is a long journey, a very tiresome journey," Mr. Mensah said. "But we have no option. We must survive. Africa has a lot of problems."
Abdul Wasia, 25, from Ilorin in southwest Nigeria, had lived in Libya for three years, making $200 a month as a domestic. Although Mr. Mensah was content to stay in Libya once he got back there again, Mr. Wasia's ultimate goal was to make it to another continent, where he could work in printing, as he had done in his early 20's in Nigeria.
"I couldn't make it to Europe last time -- that's why I want to go back to Libya," Mr. Wasia said. "I want to go maybe to Canada, London or Germany. They know a lot about printing in Germany." Both migrants said ordinary Libyans sometimes mistreated other Africans, but they were confident that the government would protect them. "Qaddafi is a good man," Mr. Mensah said.
"He likes Africans -- especially he likes blacks," Mr. Wasia said.
"He wants us to be together, to unite," Mr. Mensah said. "And even what happened in Libya, I don't think he knew anything about it."
Colonel Qaddafi has gained many admirers, as well as skeptics, in the last year or so with his talk of pan-African unity, open borders and a common currency. Next March, the United States of Africa was supposed to be declared in Sirte, his hometown.
Whether African leaders really believed in his vision, they indulged him because, as one Western diplomat in Niamey put it, they regularly go to Tripoli to collect money. Half a year ago Colonel Qaddafi visited Niger, promising many things, including a paved trans-Saharan road from Libya to Agadez.
Colonel Qaddafi's words are believed to have increased the flow of migrants, so that more than one million African expatriates are now estimated to live in Libya, which has an indigenous population of five million. Most come from countries on its borders: Niger, Chad and Sudan, whose migrants typically stay to work in Libya. Migrants from other African nations usually use Libya as a springboard to Europe.
Because of Colonel Qaddafi's influence, officials of African countries whose people were attacked or killed in Libya did not dare criticize Libyans. They were embarrassed that so many of their citizens were being used as cheap labor but conscious that their earnings played a crucial role in their home economies. So instead many officials seemed to blame the victims. Nigeria's minister for African cooperation, Dapo Sarumi, described the deported as "criminals or prostitutes who have become an embarrassment."
In Agadez, Yandaka Yahaya, the top government official, said: "I have not heard one African head of state criticize Qaddafi. But you must understand the Libyans' reaction. The migrants from Niger, from elsewhere in West and Central Africa, all want to go to Europe through Libya. It's the resulting traffic that the Libyans don't like, the traffic in drugs, counterfeit money, false papers, prostitution. They are afraid that their own population will be corrupted."
Mr. Yahaya acknowledged that the smuggling was continuing and that the authorities were looking the other way.
Indeed, the smuggling was impossible to deny, since Agadez included several ghettos for migrants waiting to go to Dirkou. Anne Williams, 29, better known as Mama Nigeria, left Nigeria four years ago for Agadez, where she now owns hair salons, a restaurant and a place to stay.
"All Nigerians come to me," Ms. Williams said. "The ones that have money continue their way. If no money, they will wash dishes, sweep my floors, until they save enough money to go to Libya."
Business was so good that last year she opened a restaurant in Dirkou, Anne's Restaurant. 
One evening, a dozen Nigerians milled around her place in Agadez, all of them wanting to go to Europe through Libya, for various reasons. There was Helen Christopher-Meregwa, 41, a quiet woman who arrived in Agadez a month ago, who said she could no longer endure life in Africa.
"I'm sick and tired of Africa," she said. "I just want to be there in Europe. I will not come back."
Gloria Emmanuel, 27, had arrived a year ago from Lagos, where she had worked as a nurse. Nigeria's schools, like those in the rest of Africa, have collapsed in recent decades, with African leaders investing little in education even as they send their own children to schools in Europe and the United States. And so Ms. Emmanuel said she did not believe that she could further her education in Nigeria; in Europe perhaps she could.
"When I go to Europe, I just want to become a doctor," she said. "I know I will learn it."
In the Cameroonian ghetto, Calvin Tatchum Bekina, 24, spoke of joining his older brother, who was working for a shoe company in Spain. The brother, he said, had taken this route to go to Europe five years ago, only to be deported from Italy. But on his second try, he had made it to Europe, eventually landing in Spain, where he now lived with a Spanish girlfriend.
Mr. Bekina had little knowledge of Niger's geography; taking a bus from southern Niger to Agadez, he saw sandy stretches and thought he had crossed the Sahara his brother had warned him about.
"It was in Agadez that I was told that the great desert was still ahead of me," Mr. Bekina said. "I was shattered -- all the money that I've spent to come to Agadez and I still haven't made it out of Africa."
Indeed, after 350 miles of desert to Dirkou, he would have to cross several hundred more miles north into the Sahara in Libya, probably sitting on top of a truck packed with Marlboros and other products being smuggled. Along the way, some would get lost, some would die, some would get arrested.
Bilma, a small oasis about 20 miles south of here, held nine African prisoners. Most had been convicted for dealing drugs in Dirkou or Agadez, said Silly Aba Roufay, a town administrator.
Two Nigerian prisoners, Benson Unemhin, 19, and John Ejulu, 50, said they were serving five years each on drug convictions. Both claimed innocence, but they had no contact with the outside. Town officials let the prisoners roam freely during the day. Where would they escape in the Sahara, unless to their deaths?
Still, in the bus station at Agadez or on the outskirts of Dirkou, crowds of Africans were fighting to board trucks bound for an uncertain journey into the Sahara.
"We are like running water," said Yusuf Marwan, 27, a Ghanaian. "We know our source, but we don't know where we are running to."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Barely visible under a mountain of people and baggage, a truck prepares to leave Dirkou, Niger, the last sub-Saharan stop on a long and dangerous route to North Africa where some of the migrants will stay and work, and others will hope to save enough money to travel on to Europe or America. (Toru Morimoto for The New York Times)(pg. A16) Map of Niger highlighting Dirkou: Migrants from black Africa use Dirkou as a springboard out. (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMUGGLING (87%); DESERTS (78%); RIOTS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); REFUGEES (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (64%); TRENDS (62%); RESTAURANTS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (72%) SAHARA DESERT (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (97%); AFRICA (95%); NIGERIA (94%); NIGER (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GHANA (92%); CHAD (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%) AFRICA; DIRKOU (NIGER); NIGER; LIBYA; SAHARA DESERT; NIGERIA; GHANA

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



55 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Adirondack Lands to Be Sold to Environmental Group 

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
The largest private landowner in the Adirondacks in upstate New York, International Paper, said yesterday that it had agreed to sell 26,500 acres to the Nature Conservancy, a private environmental group, for $10.5 million in what would be one of the largest land preservation agreements in the state's history.
 The agreement is complex, and people at some environmental groups said the virtues of the plan would emerge only in its details, which are to be worked out in the coming months. A portion of the land, for example, is to continue in active commercial use as timberland after the sale is completed; the amount of land and its location remain to be worked out. The purchase is to be completed within 90 days. 
 But state officials and leaders of the Nature Conservancy agreed that at a minimum the sale would protect in perpetuity a chain of undeveloped lakes and ponds that are considered jewels within the wilderness section of Adirondack Park. And the commercial logging that does occur will be overseen by the state. 
"We wanted to find a way to satisfy the public interest in these lands, but also maintain a commercial working forest, because we think that's important, too," said Robert Stegemann, a spokesman for International Paper.
Gov. George E. Pataki said in an interview that the agreement was unprecedented, partly because of the size of the tracts involved, but also because it would complete what he said has been an environmental dream of the state since at least 1997, when New York bought an adjoining 15,000-acre tract. In that case, the seller was the Whitney family, inheritors of the fortune of William C. Whitney, the industrialist, who purchased tens of thousands of acres of upstate land in the 1800's.
Officials at the Nature Conservancy said the agreement would cover a backwoods canoeing trail that had been concentrated in the Whitney section ever since its sale, but which would now extend into International Paper land as well.
Mr. Pataki stressed that while preservation was the state's first goal, encouraging sustainable economic activity in the Adirondacks was crucial as well. He said managed logging and increased tourism on the newly opened wilderness lands would provide economic stimulus to neighboring towns. 
New York State has been acquiring land in the rugged north country of the Adirondacks for more than a century. The result is a sprawling wilderness that many environmentalists have called one of the nation's last great wild places. Adirondack Park itself now includes six million acres, making it the largest public park in the lower 48 states.
A spokesman for the Adirondack Council, a private environmental group that focuses on the park region, said the agreement was "tremendous news." But the spokesman, John F. Sheehan, said there were still concerns because so many details, especially how the land would be managed, remained unsettled.
"We would have liked to see it all become wilderness," Mr. Sheehan said. "But at the very least, it will be preserved from development and the commercial operations will be overseen by the state." He said his group would be an active participant in negotiations about long-term management of the land.
The state director for the Nature Conservancy, Henry Tepper, said the delicate balancing of interests was the hallmark of the agreement. He said that while the Nature Conservancy had bought other, smaller parcels for protection while agreeing to their continued commercial use, the latest deal was by far the largest of its kind in New York.
"This agreement simultaneously maintains a managed forest landscape, conserves ecological resources and supports the local economy," he said.
Most of the land is in Hamilton County, in the town of Long Lake. The land is clustered in three large parcels that contain four large lakes, more than 12 smaller ponds, over 4,000 acres of pristine wetlands, 85 miles of rivers and streams, and a rare section of spruce and fir forest.
Mr. Pataki and the officials at the Nature Conservancy said, however, that the extension of what had been a well-established canoe route through this area of Adirondack Park was what gave the land much of its recreational appeal. Little Tupper Lake, in particular, will connect to the Bog River and Tupper Lake. Round Lake and Loon Pond, two large, remote lakes in a section adjoining the Whitney parcel, will also greatly expand the canoeing network, they said.

GRAPHIC: Map of New York highlighting the Adirondacks: International Paper will continue to use some of the land as timberland. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WILDERNESS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (75%); HISTORY (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); LAKES (72%); INTERVIEWS (65%); TOURISM (50%) REAL ESTATE 

ORGANIZATION: NATURE CONSERVANCY (91%) INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO; NATURE CONSERVANCY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



56 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing; 
FOREIGN REALTY INVESTMENT

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 For the second year in a row, foreign investors have chosen New York City as the best place to buy real estate, according to an annual survey by the Association of Foreign Investors in Real Estate. After New York, the association's members favored San Francisco, Boston and Washington. 
The survey also found that foreign investors have little concern about a slowing economy, with 90 percent of the survey's respondents saying they would either increase or maintain their investments in United States real estate this year. Office buildings were the preferred property type for the sixth year in a row. Rents have risen even as the high-technology-related companies that have fueled the office market in recent years are giving up space or slowing expansion plans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (94%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%) REAL ESTATE; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FOREIGN INVESTORS IN REAL ESTATE (91%) ASSN OF FOREIGN INVESTORS IN REAL ESTATE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



57 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Now is the time to reform unemployment insurance -- before it's really needed.

BYLINE:  By Alan B. Krueger 

 BODY:
THE unemployment insurance program was neglected during the steady stream of good economic news in the 1990's. States usually add to their unemployment insurance trust funds in prosperous times, so they can draw them down in weak times. Perhaps believing the good times would never end, however, many states have failed to replenish their unemployment insurance funds or make other fundamental changes that would strengthen the system.
 Even in the new economy, unemployment insurance still serves a valuable purpose. The amount a family spends on food -- a bare necessity -- falls 7 percent, on average, when the head of a household becomes unemployed, according to a study published in The American Economic Review by Jonathan Gruber of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Absent unemployment benefits, he estimates that a spell of unemployment would cause food consumption to fall 22 percent -- about three times as much. 
 Indeed, with workers increasingly being promised stock options in exchange for lower base pay, laid-off workers who are ineligible to cash in on their options -- even if they are still worth something -- are likely to depend on unemployment benefits even more to help pay for housing and groceries.
Offsetting the salutary "consumption smoothing" effect of unemployment benefits, many economists have also documented a distortionary effect: as benefit generosity increases, workers tend to remain unemployed longer. Higher benefits apparently reduce the amount of effort people devote to searching for a job. In addition, research indicates that some employees and employers game the system, placing workers on temporary layoff so they can receive benefits while on vacation.
But these unintended consequences do not mean the program should be scrapped. Doctors do not stop prescribing medicines just because they have unintended side effects; instead, they weigh the expected benefits of treatment against the cost of the side effects, and proceed accordingly. 
Ideally, the optimal unemployment benefit would balance the desired consumption-smoothing effect against the undesired distortionary effects. According to Professor Gruber's calculations, the average unemployment benefit in the United States, which replaces around 40 percent of previous earnings, after taxes, is close to the optimal level given workers' aversion to the risk of job loss. 
The program is worth preserving. So it is important to ensure that sufficient financing is accumulated in state trust funds to weather a possible downturn.
A common measure of the solvency of unemployment insurance funds is the reserve ratio, or accumulated funds as a percent of annual payroll. A higher reserve ratio provides more protection in the event of a downturn. Phillip B. Levine, an economist at Wellesley College, calculates that to remain solvent through a severe recession, like the one experienced in the early 1980's, unemployment insurance funds would require a reserve ratio of at least 1.25 percent. Using this standard, 14 states are now at risk of insolvency in a severe recession.
Texas and New York, with reserve ratios of 0.31 percent and 0.44 percent -- the lowest in the nation -- are skating on particularly thin ice. The funds in these states are at risk of insolvency even in a mild downturn. 
Moreover, it would be prudent to build up reserves in excess of the minimum level because state finances are likely to be strained in the next downturn because the new federal welfare law, Temporary Assistance to Needy Families, does not increase state block grants in a downturn. Additionally, lifetime limits on welfare payments could induce more displaced workers than in the past to apply for unemployment benefits.
The way unemployment insurance is financed can be improved to reduce its unintended distortionary effects and to shore up the trust funds.
Employers are assessed a tax on each worker's earnings, up to an annual earnings cap that has not kept up with inflation. The tax rate depends on an employer's past experience with layoffs -- a process known as experience rating -- subject to a minimum and maximum rate. 
Largely because of these limits, experience rating is imperfect. The extra tax revenue generated by additional layoffs covers only about two-thirds of the additional cost of providing benefits. In high-layoff sectors like construction, companies pay, on average, less than a third of the extra costs generated by layoffs.
As a consequence, many companies are, in effect, subsidized when they lay off workers. In an era when rapid technological change enables companies to lay off workers and increase profitability, imperfect experience rating is even less defensible.
Experience rating stabilizes employment. When Washington State instituted experience rating in response to federal incentives in 1985, employers became less likely to lay off workers than were their counterparts in Oregon and Idaho, according to a study just published in The Journal of Public Economics by Patricia Anderson of Dartmouth and Bruce D. Meyer of Northwestern.
Another study in the same journal, by Professor Levine and David Card of the University of California at Berkeley, estimates that the unemployment rate would decline by six-tenths of a percentage point if industries were fully experience rated -- that is, if employers in an industry were required to pay the full additional costs of unemployment benefits for layoffs in that industry. 
The federal government sets minimum standards for state unemployment insurance programs and has a history of encouraging experience rating. This arrangement has worked well for more than half a century and should not be changed in the rush to devolve federal programs to the states.
To shore up the system, states could be required to improve experience rating and maintain adequate trust fund balances. This could be accomplished by increasing the 5.4 percent maximum tax rate on high-layoff employers. In addition, the per employee taxable earnings cap -- $7,000 to $10,000 in most states -- should be raised, which would allow better experience rating at lower tax rates and increase demand for lower-paid workers.
If President-elect George W. Bush is serious when he says that he and his advisers are focusing on bad economic news to be prepared in case of a recession, they would do well to cast an eye toward the state of unemployment insurance funds and improve experience rating.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In October, Pennsylvania state workers protested curtailment of some unemployment services. Now may be the time to review how unemployment insurance is financed. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RECESSION (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

PERSON: KRUEGER, ALAN B 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



58 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Vehicle Sales Fell Sharply In December 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Auto sales slowed precipitously last month, with domestic automakers reporting plunges of up to 18 percent from year-ago levels. Foreign automakers, though, escaped almost unscathed and gained market share.
 Ward's Automotive, an industry data service, calculated that overall sales fell 7.6 percent from a year ago, to a seasonally adjusted annual sales rate of 15.4 million cars and light trucks. 
 Last month's sales pace was still in line with the industry's trend over the last decade of selling 15 million to 15.5 million vehicles in years without recessions. But the current pace is far slower than the 18 million pace set last winter and spring, or even the 17 million pace over the summer and fall. The speed of the slowdown has also caught automakers by surprise, leaving them with vast fleets of unsold cars sitting in dealers' lots because the manufacturers kept running their assembly lines at top speed until recently. 
"The edge is clearly off the industry, and the industry is slipping beyond what many of us expected," said Paul Ballew, General Motors' general director of market analysis.
Still struggling with the outsized inventories that bedeviled it through the fall, Chrysler announced this afternoon that it would not operate 5 of its 12 North American factories next week or in the week beginning on Jan. 29. Chrysler also announced smaller production cutbacks during the two intervening weeks. The company will furlough 30,000 workers for at least a week in January; these workers will be eligible for state unemployment benefits and company compensation, which together total 95 percent of their regular pay excluding overtime.
The current slowing of sales "is happening faster than anybody thought it would," said Jamie Jameson, Chrysler's vice president for sales and marketing.
Despite a weakening in October, November and December, last year was still the industry's best ever. The industry sold 17.34 million vehicles, beating the previous record, set in 1999, of 16.93 million.
The best-selling car last year was the Toyota Camry, with 422,961 sold. But the best-selling family vehicle, excluding pickups, was the Ford Explorer sport utility vehicle, whose sales edged up 3.8 percent, to 445,157, despite five months of national attention on the failure of Firestone tires on Explorers. Explorer sales were down 22 percent last month, though, as Ford virtually halted production in preparation for the introduction of a new model next month.
Slower auto production last month contributed significantly to a sharp decline in manufacturing activity, however, and Chrysler is now joining Ford and G.M. in announcing much more sweeping plans to idle factories temporarily this month. Although major automakers did not announce their sales until after today's announcement of the Federal Reserve's half-percentage-point cut in short-term interest rates, the industry's weakness almost certainly played a role in the central bank's decision.
Automobiles account for 4 percent of the nation's economic output, but play an even larger role in the American economy's booms and busts because the industry's production soars during good times and plummets when the economy slows. The auto industry accounts for a quarter of the economic output of Michigan, Ohio and Indiana, and Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has long watched the industry particularly closely, having begun his career as an economist in the 1950's as a consultant for the steel industry, which mostly sells to automakers.
George Pipas, a market analyst at Ford, said today's interest rate cut would not help the industry soon. "I don't think it substantially revises our thinking as it regards the first quarter," he said.
Mr. Ballew of G.M., who used to be the Fed's top expert on the auto industry, agreed with Mr. Pipas and hinted that further production cuts were likely. Automakers are finding it less expensive to forgo production of new cars and light trucks than to continue selling them with lavish rebates and other discounts, which have reached $2,000 or more on many slow-selling models.
"I'm not going to speculate about future production cuts, but I think you'll see a continuation of that prudent behavior," Mr. Ballew said in a telephone conference call with securities analysts and journalists today.
General Motors said today that its sales dropped 17.9 percent last month from the blistering pace a year earlier, while Ford Motor reported a sales decline of 14.9 percent, excluding its purchase of Land Rover last July. At Chrysler, a unit of DaimlerChrysler A.G., sales tumbled 14.8 percent.
Competition from foreign brands, including cars manufactured in the United States by foreign multinationals, played a role in the domestic automakers' troubles. Toyota Motor said its sales rose 14.2 percent last month, compared with an uncharacteristically weak performance a year earlier. Honda Motor's sales climbed 2.7 percent, while Nissan Motor's fell 5.2 percent and Mitsubishi Motors' dropped 5.8 percent.
Mr. Jameson of Chrysler attributed Toyota's rebound to unusually heavy advertising. But John Hanson, a spokesman, said Toyota always conducted heavy advertising campaigns in December. Toyota's jump in sales reflected the introduction of new models like the Sequoia full-size sport utility vehicle, Mr. Hanson said.
Mr. Jameson also blamed bad weather in the Northeast and Midwest for Chrysler's weak sales, saying that snowstorms depressed overall sales in the two regions where the DaimlerChrysler subsidiary has long had its highest market share. But Mr. Pipas said that a decline in consumer confidence, and not the weather, was responsible for weak sales across the industry.
Ford's sales were off 20 percent in Chicago and down 14 percent in Boston and Philadelphia, where the snow was heavy, but were much stronger around New York City and Detroit, which also had bad weather, Mr. Pipas said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); SALES MANAGEMENT (69%); OVERTIME (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; LABOR; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; PRODUCTION; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; SALES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: WARD'S AUTOMOTIVE; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; HONDA MOTOR CO; NISSAN MOTOR CO; MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 5108 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (51%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (51%)

PERSON: ;BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



59 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Owner of 17 Luxury Hotels Buys Carlyle for $130 Million 

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
Nearly two years after discreetly offering itself for sale, the Carlyle Hotel -- that soigne preserve of presidents, prime ministers and popular legends on the Upper East Side -- has been sold to a private investment group that owns 17 other luxury hotels. 
 The group, Maritz, Wolff & Company, which owns half of Rosewood Hotels and Resorts, has signed a contract to buy the 71-year-old Carlyle, at 35 East 76th Street and Madison Avenue, for close to $130 million, in the comparative neighborhood of the record $750,000-per-room price of the Four Seasons Hotel building on East 57th Street and Madison in 1999. 
 "The Carlyle will be Rosewood's flagship New York hotel," Philip F. Maritz, the president of Maritz, Wolff, said yesterday. "The price is not cheap, but this is a fair reflection of the trophy value of the property." 
Although $130 million is hardly a high price for a Manhattan hotel (in September, the 500-room Rihga Royal Hotel was under contract to sell for $220 million, but the deal never closed), the per-room price, or "key" price, for the Carlyle, is exceptional, said Sean Hennessey, director of the hotel consulting business at the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers. Nevertheless, analysts have said the Four Seasons and the Carlyle are hard to compare because of a complex accounting of the hotels' retail space, debt, ground rents, management contracts and tax issues. 
Mr. Maritz said the Carlyle would keep its name and be managed by Rosewood, a company based in Dallas that runs such ultraluxury properties as the Mansion on Turtle Creek in Dallas, the Lanesborough in London and Little Dix Bay in the British Virgin Islands. 
"I am certain that they will maintain the unique quality of the Carlyle, and its character will be preserved," said Norman L. Peck, the hotel's managing partner, who heads its ownership group. 
Mr. Maritz said no staff changes or major makeovers were planned. "The Carlyle will be independently named and will be pretty much run the way it has been run," he said. 
Although the steep rate of increase in the cost of New York City hotel rooms has been slowing with the economy, the occupancy rate in the city's 60,000 hotel rooms remains strong, and "the high end of the hotel business just had a tremendous year," Mr. Hennessey said. Therefore, the Carlyle sale may indicate "that buying a flagship hotel in New York is still a big plus," he said. 
Rosewood also owns one-sixth of the Fairmont Hotel Management Company, which operates, but does not own, the Plaza Hotel on Central Park South. Mr. Maritz said that competitively, the two hotels had a different clientele. "New York is, strategically, the most important city of any in the hotel business," he added. "We have been interested in getting into New York for years." 
An oasis of sophistication for 10021-ers and for its loyal coven of wealthy international travelers, the Carlyle served as the New York White House for President John F. Kennedy, and was the residence for Diana, Princess of Wales, whenever she visited New York. It was also where John F. Kennedy Jr. last ate breakfast before his plane crashed. 
Perhaps the hotel is most popularly known for the presence of Bobby Short, the tony saloon singer who has served up Cole Porter and George Gershwin before the Chagall-ish murals of the Cafe Carlyle since 1968. 
For months, the sale has been a preoccupation of both the staff and former guests ranging from Brooke Astor to Woody Allen, many of whom have been worried that the hotel would be diminished by a bottom-line-oriented buyer. 
"My only hope is that the new owners will keep it up in the same way," said Mrs. Astor, the 98-year-old society cynosure who celebrated her 95th birthday at the Carlyle. "And I hope they'll keep Bobby Short." 
Mr. Short has signed a long-term contract to continue performing at the hotel, said Dan Camp, the Carlyle's president since 1989, who said that he, like Mr. Short, had agreed to stay on under the new ownership. "They are the perfect buyer, one that will enable the Carlyle to evolve," Mr. Camp said.
The intention to sell the Carlyle was announced in March 1999 by Jerome L. Greene, a lawyer, real estate investor and benefactor who was then the hotel's managing partner and was an underwriter of the Mostly Mozart Festival at Lincoln Center. Mr. Greene bought the hotel in 1967 for $15.5 million with Mr. Peck and Peter Jay Sharp, the hotelier and real estate developer whose family owned the Stanhope Hotel.
When Mr. Sharp died in 1992, Mr. Greene, as the majority partner, inherited control, and he put the hotel up for sale in March 1999. On May 27, 1999, Mr. Greene, 93, died in his suite at the hotel, and ownership was transferred to Mr. Peck. 
In the months after the intention to sell the Carlyle was announced, Mr. Peck said, there were 15 serious contenders, and ultimately 5 credible bids, including an offer from the Orient-Express Hotels, based in London. Initially, Maritz, Wolff made a bid that was surpassed by others, and it dropped out in December 1999. 
Last October, Mr. Peck said, another serious suitor, the Tata group, a privately held hotel, communications, manufacturing and service-industry powerhouse based in Bombay, signed a contract to buy the Carlyle, but the deal failed to close. 
Maritz, Wolff's interest revived, a deal was struck, and a contract was signed on Dec. 28, although legal details were being worked out as late as New Year's Day. 
The sale process was considerably longer than the average New York hotel marketing time of eight months. It was so long because of "the complexity of the Carlyle's ownership structure, and the real concern that the buyer would keep the hotel's traditions in place," said Ben Lambert, the chairman of Eastdil Realty in Manhattan, the Carlyle's broker. "But the deal finally got done." 
The Carlyle, whose exterior is a landmark, is actually a cooperative, consisting of 180 hotel rental units and 69 residential suites that are privately held. Potential owners were required to buy controlling shares in the cooperative rather than directly being able to buy the building and its land. 
Maritz, Wolff is paying $50 million in cash, and the balance is being borrowed from the Carlyle ownership. The loan was "fairly unusual in a transaction like this," Mr. Hennessey said, but given the slowing economy, "lenders are a lot more skittish now than they have been for some time, so it's difficult to get the capital together to do a transaction." 
Maritz, Wolff, a privately held investment group, was founded in 1994 and owns $2 billion worth of hotels purchased through its Hotel Value Fund, including the Four Seasons hotels in Toronto, Houston, Austin and Nevis; the Park Hyatt in Sydney; and the Hotel Crescent Court in Dallas. Mr. Maritz's partner, Lewis N. Wolff, a former primary owner of the Golden State Warriors of the National Basketball Association, is the chairman of Maritz, Wolff. 
The new owners will have to work hard to keep the Carlyle true to its tradition. Guests and habitues, who treat the hotel and its facilities almost as a top-tier public utility, say they adore the state-of-the-art cosseting by the work force of 437 in the hotel where rooms rent for $495 to $3,000 per night.
The Carlyle offers paparazzi protection and seemingly infinite discretion for its well-heeled guests, who have included Prime Ministers Tony Blair and Margaret Thatcher and every American president back to Harry S. Truman, who was famous for galloping out of the hotel on his morning constitutionals, forcing the reporters to run after him into Central Park.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Carlyle Hotel on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, long a destination for the powerful, has new ownership, but Bobby Short, who has been performing at the Cafe Carlyle since 1968, will remain a fixture; he has signed a long-term contract. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times);(Edward Keating/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); RESORTS (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: MARITZ WOLFF & CO (84%); FAIRMONT HOTEL MANAGEMENT CO (60%); ROSEWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS INC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%); MANSION ON TURTLE CREEK (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CARLYLE HOTEL (NYC); MARITZ WOLFF & CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%)

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (53%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



60 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: THE RATE CUT; 
Excerpts From Bush News Conference

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a news conference yesterday by President-elect George W. Bush after a meeting with business executives in Austin, Tex., as recorded by the Federal News Service Inc.:

President-elect Bush
 Before I have a few comments about what Mr. Greenspan did today, I do want to announce that Larry Lindsey will be an assistant to the president for economic affairs. I look forward to Larry's advice and counsel. I'm so honored he's agreed to join the White House. He will be a fine addition. 
 Secondly, I am pleased that the Fed has cut the interest rates. I think the cut was needed. It was a strong statement that measures must be taken to make sure our economy does not go into a tailspin. One of the messages Mr. Greenspan sent was that we need bold action, not only at the Fed, but I would interpret that to mean bold action in the halls of Congress to make sure this economy stays vibrant. 
And to that end, I think it's really important for members of the Congress to understand that the tax relief plan I've put forth is an integral part of economic recovery. I say recovery because a lot of folks in this room have brought some pretty bad news -- that their sales are slowing, that they're having to trim back their work force. It's going to be important for the president to work with the Congress to do what's right to make sure that our economy grows. And tax relief -- meaningful, fair tax relief -- will be a stimulus. . . .
And so one of the common themes here in this meeting was that in order to make sure Americans can find work, that we've got to be mindful of the warning signs. And today, Alan Greenspan was mindful of the warning signs by taking a bold step. And when I get sworn in as president, I intend to take another bold step, and that is to ask the Congress to work with us to enact tax reform and tax reductions. 

Q. Mr. President-elect, first, did you get a heads-up on this rate cut from Mr. Greenspan?

MR. BUSH. No, I did not.

Q. And second, do you think that this will possibly make it harder for you to rally support -- bipartisan support -- for your big tax cut?

MR. BUSH. Not in the least.

Q. Why's that?

MR. BUSH. Because I think that if you were to talk to the business leaders here they'll tell you that a rate reduction of one-half percent is not enough to serve as a stimulus to encourage capital formation, economic growth, job creation; that it's going to require not only monetary policy reform but also fiscal policy reform. . . .

Q. When you talk about a bold first step when you talk to the members of Congress in regard to your tax cut relief package, will you lay it out in the aggregate . . . or try to spread it out over a legislative year in order to do it incrementally?

MR. BUSH. I think it's going to be important for us . . . to cut the rates, and I think we're going to need to move quickly to do so. . . .

Q. Is it your preference, then, to do it in as large a part as possible, as soon as possible?

MR. BUSH. Well, you're talking about the tactics there in the halls of Congress, and my preference is that we get the job done . . . Whatever it takes to get the full job done is what I support.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text; Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAX REFORM (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; TAXATION 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



61 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Plutonium Agreement With Russia Could Backfire, a Critic Says 

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
A Russian-American disarmament agreement to take 68 tons of plutonium out of nuclear weapons could have the unintended effect of increasing the chance of nuclear proliferation, according to a report by an independent researcher.
 The researcher, Arjun Makhijani, a nuclear physicist who has specialized in analyzing Energy Department weapons activities, also found that efforts around the world to make plutonium and use it as reactor fuel have cost about $100 billion, and make little economic sense. 
 But the Energy Department is defending the agreement, and its efforts to help the Russians sell the material in Europe as reactor fuel, as a major step toward nonproliferation. Once used in reactors, it is harder to use in weapons. 
Plutonium is created when uranium is used in reactors, and when it is separated from used fuel it can be reused either for reactors or for making bombs. For decades engineers have sought to build "breeders" that in their atomic reactions actually produce more reactor fuel than they consume.
Because of proliferation fears, the United States, in the 1970's, banned the recovery of plutonium from civilian reactor fuel, called reprocessing. 
But Japan, France and Britain have invested heavily in reprocessing, and Japan and France are also working on breeders. 
The United States has been negotiating with Russia since the mid-90's, and signed an agreement last September saying each side would remove 34 tons of surplus plutonium from its weapons inventory. The Energy Department is planning to pay the Duke Power Company to burn some of it in civilian reactors, and will mix the rest with high-level radioactive wastes so it cannot be easily retrieved for weapons use.
The Russians have said they, too, want to use theirs in reactors, but they also say they want to then reprocess the spent fuel, recovering even more plutonium. Russia would like to build a breeder reactor, and a factory to turn the weapons surplus into plutonium fuel, a mixture of plutonium oxide and uranium oxide called MOx, but needs Western money for the fuel plant, estimated to cost $1.7 billion to $2.5 billion.
The United States, while it has abandoned breeder reactors, plans a similar fuel plant in South Carolina.
The executive director of the Institute for Energy and Environmental Research, Dr. Makhijani is a frequent critic of the Energy Department but also works closely with them at times. He recently forced the department to reassess its estimate of the quantity of plutonium and other man-made elements spilled into the dirt during weapons-making; the department concluded it was too small by a factor of 10.
Another opponent of the agreement is Paul Leventhal, the president of the Nuclear Control Institute, a nonprofit organization based here. "What's at issue is do you turn the plutonium directly into a waste form, or turn to MOx, then end up with waste, in the form of spent fuel," Mr. Leventhal said. The MOx, he and others say, can be turned back into the plutonium metal used in reactors with relative ease. And if it is used in a reactor and reprocessed to make yet more plutonium, the purpose is defeated, he said. 
Laura S. H. Holgate, the department's negotiator for plutonium, said that under the accord the Russians could not use the weapons plutonium a second time until all had been used once, and that that would be 2025 at the earliest. By then, she said, "our vision of how we treat spent fuel will be nothing like it is today." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); NUCLEAR WASTE (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); ENERGY RESEARCH (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (73%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; ATOMIC ENERGY; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; PLUTONIUM 

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (66%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: MAKHIJANI, ARJUN; WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); JAPAN (91%); FRANCE (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



62 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Moves First 

 BODY:
The juxtaposition of economic activities yesterday was striking. In Austin, Tex., a hand-picked bunch of corporate chief executives sat around with President-elect George W. Bush discussing the need for tax cuts and interest rate reductions. But while they talked, Alan Greenspan and the Federal Reserve in Washington took bold and carefully calibrated action to stimulate the economy. 
 The Fed's decision to cut a key short-term interest rate, timed to counteract a recent plunge in consumer confidence and poor earnings reports, provided powerful evidence that the nimble Fed can do far more to combat the economic slowdown through monetary policy than the incoming Bush administration can hope to achieve through its enormous proposed tax cut. Mr. Bush tried gamely yesterday to argue that the Fed's recognition that the economy is in trouble actually underscored the need to go ahead with his tax cut as well. But that rationale seemed increasingly dubious given that the proposed 10-year, $1.3 trillion tax cut -- actually $1.9 trillion, when interest costs are factored into the estimate -- with cuts backloaded to the later years, would not take hold for quite some time, perhaps well after any stimulus is needed. 
 The Federal Reserve rarely changes interest rates between official meetings of its policy committee, and even when it does it rarely moves rates by more than a quarter of a percentage point. That is why the Fed's decision yesterday, several weeks before its next meeting, to cut rates by half a percentage point rocked financial markets and sent the Dow up more than 300 points within minutes of the announcement. The dramatic move told investors that the Fed recognized that it had clamped down too hard when the economy was roaring along at close to a 6 percent rate of growth at the beginning of last year, and that the Fed wanted the public to know now that it was committed to keeping the economy from slipping into recession.
The Fed's move is a welcome inoculation against economic deterioration that becomes more visible with each day's release of the latest indicators. The economy grew during the summer at less than half the rate of the winter and spring. Claims for unemployment insurance have risen to some of the highest levels in four years. A major index of manufacturing activity has fallen to its lowest level in 10 years, and some of the nation's biggest retailers are announcing disappointing sales figures. 
The Fed wisely decided to strike before slower growth slides into actual contraction. The Fed's only reason for hesitating might have been fear of making inflation worse. But outside of the energy sector, prices are tame and pose no serious threat of taking off. Despite yesterday's surprising action, the economy will not turn around quickly. Ordinarily it takes at least six months for rate cuts to filter through the economy, cutting borrowing costs and making more loans available for families to buy more consumer goods and businesses to invest more in new equipment and structures. Rising employment and incomes follow. 
In addition to its economic impact, the Fed's action also carried, intentionally or not, a potent political signal. Clearly, Mr. Greenspan wanted to get out ahead of Mr. Bush's argument that Congress needs to pass a big tax cut, aimed overwhelmingly at upper-income families, to ward off recession. There is a valid role for tax cuts at a time of large budget surpluses, especially if they are tailored for an important purpose -- for example, helping low-income families buy health insurance.
But unless an economic downturn is prolonged, the impacts of tax cuts are very hard to time. By the time cuts are proposed by an administration and passed by Congress, they can easily wind up stimulating an economy that has already pulled itself out of the doldrums and is speeding along. Such tax cuts might actually overheat the economy, making the Fed's task of keeping the economy on an even keel even harder. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); RECESSION (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); RETAILERS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); SALES FIGURES (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; INTEREST RATES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



63 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: THE RATE CUT: THE HISTORY; 
Similar Cuts Made in the Federal Funds Rate in 1989 and 1998 Produced Divergent Results

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
When Alan Greenspan cuts rates a lot, the markets usually love it. But sometimes the love doesn't last.
 What seems to determine the longer-term reaction is whether the economy obliges by strengthening -- and whether a lower federal funds rate really makes credit more available. 
In the last 12 years, the Fed has changed course and cut rates sharply on two occasions before this one. The first one came in 1989, and it proved inadequate as the economy entered a recession the next year and the stock market suffered. The second, in 1998, worked well, with no recession and the stock market rising. 
As it happened, the stock market's initial reaction to the cuts was wrong each time. It rallied in 1989, and fell in 1998.
Yesterday, after the Fed cut the federal funds rate 50 basis points, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the leading measure of large-stock performance, rose 5 percent.
In 1989, the Fed cut the federal funds rate 75 basis points from June through August. In those days it did not announce its moves, so traders had to figure them out, and it could take a while for agreement on what the Fed had done. Over the two days the market took to conclude that the Fed had made its first move, the Standard & Poor's 500 rose 1.5 percent.
There were further rallies as the market absorbed other Fed cuts, and by Aug. 24, the day after the last cut. the S.& P. was up 9.2 percent from the day before the first cut was made.
But in the real world, credit was still getting tighter. On Oct. 13, the S.& P. 500 plunged 6.1 percent after a planned leveraged buyout of UAL, the parent of United Airlines, collapsed because the money could not be raised on acceptable terms.
In November and December, the Fed again cut rates, by a total of 75 basis points, and again the stock market rallied, with the S.& P. 500 rising almost back to the high reached before the October plunge.
But the economy was in fact weakening, and a recession began that summer. The S.& P. eventually fell well below the level where it stood before the Fed began cutting rates.
The Fed moves in 1989 brought the federal funds rate down to 8.25 percent. But the Fed would cut it much further, to 4 percent by the end of 1991 and to 3 percent in September 1992, as it strove to get the economy moving again. By then, the economy was moving, but not enough to keep President George Bush from losing his job in that fall's election.
The next comparable period of rapid easing under Mr. Greenspan came in the fall of 1998, when the federal funds rate was cut 75 basis points, in three moves, the first on Sept. 29 and the last on Nov. 17. Then there was wide fear of world recession after the Asian currency crisis, the Russian default and the rescue of Long-Term Capital Management, an overleveraged hedge fund.
The markets greeted the first cut with a sneer. The stock market did little the day the first change was made, but the S.& P. fell 6 percent over the next two days amid widespread talk that the Fed had been too timid. Then, in a surprise, the Fed cut rates again two weeks later, and the S.& P. 500 leaped 4 percent. The third cut, a month later, produced little market reaction.
As it happened, on Sept. 9, 1998, before the first rate increase, the S.& P. rose 5.1 percent in reaction to a hint from Mr. Greenspan that rates might be cut, but then fell back. Though the hint was encouraging, the actual event did not inspire a similar reaction.
In many ways, the situation now looks much more like that of 1989 than that of 1998. Then, as now, the economy was showing signs of slowing. Then, as now, the credit markets were getting nervous, and it was becoming harder for some borrowers to find loans. Then, as now, the stock market reacted enthusiastically to the Fed's move. Then, those who bought on the news of the first rate cut would have done better to wait for lower stock prices.
In 1998, on the other hand, the fear in the markets was based largely on overseas and financial market events, not on signs that the American economy was slowing. And, curiously enough, the first Fed rate cut drew sneers from traders, but the market bottomed within days of the move. There was no recession. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); BONDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



64 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1589 words

HEADLINE: THE RATE CUT: THE OVERVIEW; 
FEDERAL RESERVE, REACTING TO SIGNALS OF A SLOWDOWN, CUTS KEY RATE HALF A POINT

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Confronted with increased evidence that the economy is stalling, the Federal Reserve slashed its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point yesterday, stunning investors and sending a powerful signal that the Fed is worried about the prospects for keeping the decade-long expansion alive.
Acting between scheduled meetings, and with barely disguised haste, the central bank cut its federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks to 6 percent from 6.5 percent. In a statement, it then signaled that it was likely to cut rates further in coming weeks and months.
"There's a simple message," Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, said. "The Fed will do whatever it takes to keep the U.S. economy from going down the tubes." 
The action, announced just after 1 p.m., caught most investors flat footed. It set off a strong rally on Wall Street, where lower rates are seen as a powerful antidote to the months-long tumble in stock prices. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 299.60 points, a gain of 2.8 percent, to close at 10,945.75. The Nasdaq composite index, which has seemed at times to be in free fall over the last few months, surged 324.83 points, or 14.2 percent, to 2,616.69. It was the Nasdaq's best day on record in both point and percentage gains.
The Fed's announcement came two weeks before the inauguration of President-elect George W. Bush, who was meeting with business executives in Austin, Tex., to build support for his $1.6 trillion tax cut proposal. Mr. Bush has been warning of an economic downturn, and in welcoming the Fed's action yesterday he said it in no way reduced the need for a tax cut.
Although the full effects of the rate cut are not likely to be felt for months, the action immediately began putting downward pressure on the rates paid by businesses and consumers to borrow money. Still, it is impossible to know with certainty when credit card rates will be affected.
The rate reduction was an abrupt turnabout for the Fed, which only months ago was far more worried about the prospect of an overheating economy igniting inflation than about the possibility of a recession. Yesterday's move followed six rate increases between June 1999 and May of last year.
It was the first rate reduction since November 1998, the first half-point rate cut since 1992 and the first time the central bank has changed policy between meetings since October 1998, a time when the global financial crisis was threatening the United States.
The Fed had hinted last month that a rate cut was in the cards. But in taking its action four weeks ahead of its next scheduled meeting on Jan. 30-31, and in opting to cut rates by half a point rather than by a quarter point, its more normal increment, the Fed conveyed the clear impression that it saw economic conditions deteriorating faster than it or most analysts had anticipated.
It is unclear why Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, chose to act yesterday instead of waiting until the next regular meeting at the end of the month -- whether he knew something about the economy not evident to everyone else. In a statement, the Fed cited a variety of factors, including weakening sales and production, falling consumer confidence, skittish financial markets and high energy prices.
Clearly, the economy has weakened since the Fed policy makers last met, on Dec. 19, and left interest rates unchanged. "Consumers are retrenching, business is pulling back, manufacturing is in recession, and banks have become more cautious," said Mark Zandi, chief economist of Economy.com, a forecasting and consulting service.
The Fed move came a day after the National Association of Purchasing Management released the December results for an index that measures activity in the manufacturing sector. The index fell to 43.7 last month from 47.7 in November, leaving the measure at its lowest level since the end of the last recession nearly a decade ago.
"They saw the N.A.P.M., and it scared the pants off them," said Ian Shepherdson, an economist at High Frequency Economics, a consulting firm in Valhalla, N.Y.
The downward spiral in the stock market is also likely to have concerned Mr. Greenspan, who in recent years has made much of the tight links between what happens in the financial markets and the health of the economy in general. Investors have become increasingly convinced that Mr. Greenspan will step in with a rate cut whenever the market shows signs of deep trouble.
Yet for months, Fed officials have insisted that interest rate policy has been aimed at controlling inflation, and not the stock market. The half-point cut yesterday, however, was clear recognition of the stock market's enormous power to make the economy boom or bust.
"The data for the real economy is not yet that frightening," said Peter Hooper, chief domestic economist for Deutsche Bank North America. "But if the markets continued down on the basis of fear feeding on fear, that could push us into recession. And that got the Fed acting today."
The Fed's rate cuts are traditionally aimed at stimulating economic growth by making credit less expensive, thus encouraging people to borrow and spend, particularly for homes, cars and appliances, three pillars of the economy.
But weeks or months can pass before a Fed rate cut actually lowers borrowing costs for individual Americans. This time, the Fed, in cutting rates in such a highly noticeable way, seemed to seek faster action, economists said. The rate cut may lift the spirits of investors, with the hope that a rising market will raise the confidence of consumers everywhere.
"Consumers had become concerned because they thought the economy was slowing down too fast, and that would affect their job prospects and security," said Richard T. Curtin, director of consumer surveys at the University of Michigan. 
It also appeared that Mr. Greenspan had concluded that the release of unemployment figures for December on Friday would show further signs that what started as a modest slowdown was threatening to deteriorate into a downturn in which the economy would actually shrink. The Fed usually has one component of the unemployment report a few days in advance, providing a sense of employment trends among manufacturers. But the full employment report is not disclosed to the Fed until the afternoon before it is released.
"If the employment report came out even moderately negative without a response from the Fed, you could have a tremendous sell-off in the stock market," Mr. Hooper said.
It is very unusual, but by no means unprecedented for the Fed to act between meetings. Mr. Greenspan has the authority to raise or lower rates on his own between meetings, without a vote from the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's 12-member policy-setting body. He last did so in October 1998, when he cut rates by a quarter of a point during a period in which the Fed was trying to keep the global financial crisis from spilling over into the United States. The previous inter-meeting move was in April 1994, when he raised rates by a quarter point as part of an aggressive yearlong campaign of rate increases.
In this case, Mr. Greenspan decided on Tuesday to hold a conference call among members of the committee yesterday morning to discuss cutting rates immediately. The call started at 11 a.m. and lasted about an hour. Departing from normal practice for a rate cut between meetings, Mr. Greenspan asked for a formal vote of the committee rather than acting on his own authority. The precise outcome of the vote will not be disclosed until minutes of the call, along with minutes of the last meeting in December, are released together on Feb. 1.
The hastiness of the decision to cut rates was underscored by the way the Fed handled the other interest rate it controls, the discount rate on loans to banks by the Federal Reserve system. Although the discount rate is usually kept below the federal funds target rate, the Fed often moves the two rates up and down more or less in tandem.
But while the central bank cut the federal funds rate by half a point yesterday, it only cut the discount rate by a quarter of a percentage point, to 5.75 percent. It did so because, under the central bank's procedures, changes in the discount rate are prompted by requests from the Federal Reserve banks -- and no bank had thought to ask, before yesterday, for more than a quarter-point reduction in the discount rate. As a result, the Fed said it would act soon to cut the discount rate again by another quarter point, once it got a formal request from one or more of the banks to do so.
The Fed made clear that yesterday's action was likely to be the first step in a series of rate cuts intended to prolong an expansion that became the longest on record last February. The economy has been growing without interruption since March 1991.
In its statement yesterday, the Fed signaled that the central bankers believed that further rate cuts would probably be necessary, perhaps as soon as the regularly scheduled meeting on Jan. 30-31.
"One of the main reasons for moving now is that it gives them a chance to ease again at the end of the month," Mr. Steinberg said.
 Even as it took strong action to head off a recession, the Fed offered a few reassuring words. It noted that there is almost no inflation, and it suggested that Mr. Greenspan's faith in the economy's long-term potential was unshaken, noting that "there is little evidence to suggest that longer-term advances in technology and associated gains in productivity are abating."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 5, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page chart yesterday showing movements in the federal funds target rate labeled the levels incorrectly. The rate began 1998 at 5.5 percent, not 6, and was cut from 6.5 percent on Wednesday to 6 -- not from 7 to 6.5.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Reuters) Chart: It was a buoyant afternoon in the stock markets after the Federal Reserve cut the federal funds target rate by half a point. Chart shows the Federal Funds Target Rate's progress since 1998. Chart tracks the Nasdaq Composite Index from Dec. 1 2000 to Jan. 3 2001.(Sources: Federal Reserve; Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A1) Chart: "The Biggest Gain"After yesterday's unexpected rate cut by the Federal Reserve, the Nasdaq composite index rallied to finish with its best one-day gain ever. Nine of the top 10 days in Nasdaq history have now occurred in the last 12 months. DATE: YesterdayCLOSE: 2,616.69CHANGE: +14.17 DATE: Dec. 5, 2000CLOSE: 2,889.80CHANGE: +10.48 DATE: May 30, 2000CLOSE: 3,459.48CHANGE: + 7.94 DATE: Oct. 13, 2000CLOSE: 3,316.77CHANGE: + 7.87 DATE: Oct. 19, 2000CLOSE: 3,418.60CHANGE: + 7.79 DATE: Dec. 22, 2000CLOSE: 2,517.02CHANGE: + 7.56 DATE: Oct. 21, 1987CLOSE: 351.86CHANGE: + 7.34 DATE: April 18, 2000CLOSE: 3,793.57CHANGE: + 7.19 DATE: April 25, 2000CLOSE: 3,711.23CHANGE: + 6.57 DATE: April 17, 2000CLOSE: 3,539.16CHANGE: + 6.56(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; TAXATION; STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DISCOUNT RATE 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS; STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



65 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: Buoyed by Fed Move, Bush Pushes Tax Cut 

 BODY:
President-elect George W. Bush and a group of American business leaders he was meeting with in Texas said the unexpected cut in interest rates by Alan Greenspan and the Federal Reserve underscored the need for a deep, across-the-board tax cut to sustain economic growth. 
 "One of the messages Mr. Greenspan sent was that we need bold action, not only at the Fed, but I would interpret that to mean bold action in the halls of Congress to make sure this economy stays vibrant," Mr. Bush said. His aides said that the interest rate cut was likely to set the relationship between the incoming president and the Fed chairman off to a good start.

Business Day, Page C1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



66 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Dr. Greenspan Chases Gloom Of Investors' Chill Winter

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Faced with a deepening pessimism among investors that was all too well reasoned, Alan Greenspan decided yesterday that perhaps a little irrational exuberance might not be so bad for the markets after all.
Deciding not to wait until their scheduled meeting on Jan. 30-31, the Federal Reserve cut interest rates aggressively, reducing the federal funds rate half a percentage point, to 6 percent. The Fed also lowered the discount rate, the interest rate it charges on loans to banks, by one-quarter point, to 5.75 percent.
The moves were just what depressed stock investors needed to get back into a buying mode. Shares had drifted all morning. Then, a little after 1 p.m., the Fed made its surprise announcement. Despair over the ill effects that the nation's economic slowdown was having on corporate earnings gave way to euphoria that Mr. Greenspan would once more save the day. 
The Dow Jones industrial average ended the day up 299.60 points, or 2.8 percent, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5 percent. But the wildest ride was once again on the Nasdaq composite index -- which rocketed up 324.83 points, or 14.2 percent, its strongest one-day gain ever.
"The psychological fear of a recession was building in the marketplace," said Gemma Wright, director of market strategy at Barclays Capital in New York. "The Fed has taken out a prescription to thwart a recession, and it has put a floor under equities."
Among the biggest beneficiaries yesterday were formerly highflying technology shares that had been crushed in recent weeks. EMC soared 25 percent, Cisco Systems rose 24 percent, and I.B.M. was up 11.6 percent for the day.
And stocks that had been buoyed by investors' fearing an imminent recession dropped yesterday as economic worries abated. Philip Morris lost 8.5 percent of its value, Pfizer fell 5.6 percent, and American Home Products dropped 5.5 percent.
That the Nasdaq market turned in the best performance yesterday was perhaps not a surprise. The composite index, dominated by highly volatile stocks of young as well as more established technology companies, had been hammered since its peak last March 10. Yesterday, before the Fed moved, the Nasdaq composite was trading at 2,251.71, off 55 percent from the high.
But while many investors felt that a celebration was in order, some seasoned Wall Street strategists and economists warned that the Fed's move could signify that the economy was in worse condition than many people suspected. Moreover, it could be months before hard evidence of Fed success in forestalling a recession might be seen. 
"The transmission of monetary policy takes time," said Henry Kaufman, the longtime Wall Street economist. "Even in the best of times, monetary policy cannot produce an instantaneous response." 
Indeed, while the Fed's rate cut may initially produce higher stock prices, Mr. Kaufman said that if the rebound is to continue, investors would want to see four things: an increase in capital spending by corporations, a reopening of the junk bond market, greater availability of credit in emerging-country debt markets and a stirring of enthusiasm for initial public offerings of stocks. 
Mr. Kaufman said that one reason Mr. Greenspan might have acted so aggressively was to slow the tax-cut train gathering speed in Washington. "The more the Fed acts now," he said, "the more modest the fiscal stimulus is going to be." 
To some, the central bank also signaled that this cut was only the beginning. "The Fed is telling us they're easing and there's a lot more to come," said Stan Jonas, managing director of Fimat USA, a broker-dealer in New York. Bond investors are now expecting that the Fed will cut rates a further three-quarters of a percentage point by May, he said. 
Stock market investors like interest rate cuts because they lower corporations' costs, allowing for greater profitability. But with the economy slowing much more quickly than many expected, profit growth may be elusive for some time, even with lower rates.
As a result, investors may have to endure weeks and perhaps months of depressing economic data while they wait for more rate cuts. And this could easily dampen some of the enthusiasm seen for stocks yesterday.
"You get this flash of lightning, which is critical," said James Moltz, vice chairman of International Strategy and Investment, a New York advisory firm, "but then you go back to the daily pablum of disappointing news. I still think it will take more than one swoop to turn the market around." 
Later this week, for example, investors will digest all-important employment statistics. And late in the month, there will be consumer confidence data, and figures on employment costs and on the gross domestic product.
That Nasdaq stocks were the biggest movers yesterday indicated to some strategists that investors were simply returning to shares of companies they had favored last year when the economy seemed so strong. But investors who think that the good old days are back could be in for a surprise. 
 Mr. Moltz, for one, thinks that rising prices of technology stocks are not sustainable unless companies have earnings growth to point to. "When you get a major big-time correction and then the market turns up," he said, "the things that led it in the past always bounce strongly in the beginning. What happens later is there will be a re-evaluation of how investors price technology stocks. The evidence that tech companies' growth rates and earnings stability are sensitive to the economy was not in their prices last year. We will have to come to grips with that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A New York Stock Exchange trader displaying his enthusiasm yesterday at the market's closing bell. Shares rose sharply as the Federal Reserve cut rates. (Reuters) Graph shows yesterdays Nasdaq closing. (UP 14.17%) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RECESSION (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MARKETING STRATEGY (77%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (54%); PFIZER INC (53%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (54%); PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFEB (BRU) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (54%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (52%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%) MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



67 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: THE RATE CUT: THE IMPACT; 
2 Banks Follow Fed's Lead And Hope Economy Reacts

BYLINE:  This article was reported by Riva D. Atlas, Jonathan Fuerbringer and David Leonhardt and written by Mr. Leonhardt. 

 BODY:
Only hours after the Federal Reserve made its surprise cut in short-term interest rates, two of the nation's largest banks -- J. P. Morgan Chase and Wells Fargo -- announced they would reduce their benchmark lending rates effective today. In the coming days, every other major bank is expected to follow with similar announcements.
 Over the next few months, those moves will lower the cost of borrowing for consumers pondering whether to buy a new car and for businesses mulling an expansion or a major investment in new technology. The stock market is now more likely to rise over the next year than to keep falling, if history is an accurate guide, and the faltering economic expansion is more likely to safely reach the 10-year mark next month. 
 Given the lag time between rate cuts and their effect on spending, all of that probably would have happened even if the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, and his colleagues had waited to lower rates until the end of the week, when the Labor Department releases its employment report for December, or even their next meeting, scheduled for January 30-31. 
But with bad economic news mounting and nearly every analyst calling for a rate cut, the middle of this week presented perhaps the last opportunity for the Fed to take executives, investors and consumers by surprise.
With this move, the Fed stole the spotlight from yet another day of dreary news -- Ford and General Motors said sales were falling, and Office Depot announced it would cut 1,600 jobs -- and gambled that it could lift confidence that the economy would soon rebound.
"All of this is designed to attract attention and to boost consumer spirits," said Neal Soss, the chief economist at Credit Suisse First Boston.
In fact, Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues used almost every trick in their bag to make their decision more dramatic. They made the announcement on the same day that President-elect George W. Bush was holding a meeting with executives on the state of the economy. They dropped rates by one-half of a percentage point, rather than just a quarter. They said they stood ready to make further cuts. 
Over the longer term, the rate cut will ripple through the economy, making companies and consumers more willing to borrow for the future and spend their money sooner rather than later. The key question -- the one that will determine whether the economy avoids a further fall-off in growth this year -- is whether the cut's effects will outweigh the continuing economic weakness expected to bring further profit declines. 
"Tomorrow," said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, "the economy isn't going to be any stronger than it was yesterday."
While virtually all analysts praised the Fed's move, some also questioned whether the easing will have the same effect similiar moves have had in the past. Many consumers have already refinanced their mortgages in recent years, and both the business and consumer sectors have splurged on expensive, long-lasting durable goods and capital equipment in recent years, suggesting lower rates may not spur substantially more spending.
"If in 2000 I bought a new house, a new car, a new computer and new furniture," said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management, "I don't care how low interest rates are, I'm not going to buy more." 
Another complicating factor could be the dollar, which rose yesterday by 2.3 percent against the euro as currency traders gained more faith in the United States economy. The Fed cut reduced the chance of a sharp economic slide here that would make the United States a less attractive place for foreign investment. But with the dollar already strong, further increases could hamper American companies by making it cheaper for foreign companies to sell products here and more expensive for American firms to export.
Still, interest rate cuts, once made deep enough, have never failed to stimulate the economy eventually. The Fed decision should help counter a tightening credit market and a growing sense -- among everybody from consumers to bond traders -- that a recession was possible.
In early December, with the yields on many corporate bonds rising and banks reducing their lending, Mr. Greenspan worried aloud that banks might have been overreacting. "Both bankers and their supervisors should now guard against allowing the pendulum to swing too far," he said, warning against "policy stances that cut off credit to borrowers with credible prospects." 
By lowering rates, the Fed cut banks' costs, making lending a more profitable activity for them. 
At the same time that credit was tightening and consumers were becoming more nervous, a reliable warning light of recession -- the difference between long- and short-term interest rates -- was blinking. When the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note falls below the yield on its three-month bill, investors are predicting that inflation is unlikely and recession is a clear possibility. And with short-term yields still high, borrowing remains expensive. 
But after the Fed rate cut, Treasury prices dropped sharply and yields surged, as the action improved the economic outlook. "This lessens the chance of a devastating economic contraction," said Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. 
In late trading yesterday, the price on the Treasury's 10-year note plunged 129/32 to 104 14/32 while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, jumped to 5.16 percent from 4.91 percent Tuesday. 
For consumers, the short-term rate decline will show up soon in their credit cards, more than 50 percent of which have rates pegged to banks' prime rates, said James Chessen, chief economist for the American Bankers Association. At the banks that moved yesterday, the prime rate fell to 9 percent, from 9.5.
The cost of home equity loans -- as well as small-business loans -- will also decline. Mortgage loans, however, are not directly affected by the cut and may start to be more expensive if long-term rates start to rise.
Over the course of 2001, those changes should cause consumers to spend more money and even to add to their already high levels of debt. In the short term, though, the drop in gasoline and home heating prices in recent weeks is likely to be more important, analysts said.
"We go out and buy energy every day," said Carl Steidtmann, the chief retail economist for PricewaterhouseCoopers. "It has a much more direct effect on consumer behavior" than interest rates.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Markets surged after the Fed cut. Daniel Burke, a trader at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, worked a sale. (Associated Press)(pg. C9) Chart: "Reacting to a Warning Light"The narrowing of the difference between the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note and its three-month bill can signal trouble for the economy. When the 10-year yield falls below that of the three-month bill, as it did in July, the chances for recession increase. Fed policy makers, led by Alan Greenspan, responded to this growing possibility yesterday by cutting their benchmark rate by half a percentage point. Charts track the Federal Funds Target Rate, Treasury's 10-Year Note Yield and Treasury's 3-Month Bill Yield since 1989.(Sources: Federal Reserve; Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); US PRESIDENTS (61%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%) MORGAN, J P, CHASE; WELLS FARGO BANK; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



68 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: THE RATE CUT: THE ADVISER; 
Contrarian of Boom Decade Put in Bush Inner Circle

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
While America celebrated a decade of prosperity, Lawrence B. Lindsey spent the 1990's warning of an imminent economic tightening.
 Consumers were spending far beyond their means, he said. The nation depended too much on foreign lending. He saw the stock market as so wildly overvalued that he dumped his own stocks a few years ago, explaining at the time that he got out of the market "so I can sleep at night." 
 Mr. Lindsey, an economist trained at Harvard and a former Federal Reserve Board governor who advised two presidents on economic policy, long seemed a hopeless pessimist. Today, he looked like a vindicated prophet.
President-elect George W. Bush named Mr. Lindsey, 46, as his White House economic adviser, formalizing Mr. Lindsey's role as the incoming administration's top thinker on economic matters. The appointment came the same day Mr. Bush presided over a conference in Austin to promote the tax cuts Mr. Lindsey has designed as a way to protect the nation against an economic slump, and just an hour after the Fed confirmed a gloomier outlook for the economy with a sharp cut in interest rates.
"Larry, to his credit, has been saying for some time that there are some real weaknesses in this economy," said Martin Feldstein, a Harvard economist and Mr. Lindsey's longtime mentor. "It sure looks that way now."
In his new post, Mr. Lindsey will have the president's ear on all matters economic, including tax policy, Social Security, the budget and economic relations with major foreign allies, like Japan and the European Union. That continues the role he played during the campaign, when Mr. Lindsey shaped the proposals for a $1.6 trillion tax cut, a Social Security overhaul and other core issues in Mr. Bush's campaign.
But his power within the new administration remains uncertain. His appointment came relatively late in the Bush transition, after all cabinet posts had been filled and much of the rest of the White House team was in place. Although Mr. Lindsey was once thought of as a potential Treasury secretary, that position went to Paul H. O'Neill, the retired chief executive of Alcoa and a Republican heavyweight who has his own strong views on economic management.
Mr. Lindsey has not been assigned either of the titles normally bestowed on the administration's top economist. Mr. Bush named him assistant to the president for economic affairs, but has yet to say who will head the Council of Economic Advisers or the National Economic Council, the two posts that carry the most bureaucratic weight on economic matters in the White House.
"We'll let you know," Mr. Bush said in response to a question on the matter. "Not to diminish Mr. Lindsey," he added.
It remains possible that Mr. Lindsey will be named to one or both of those positions. But the failure to do so today leaves open the possibility that Mr. Lindsey will have to share responsibilities with another economist or that Mr. Bush will permit other cabinet departments, including Treasury and Commerce, to exercise more influence over economic policy than they had during the Clinton administration, two people connected with the Bush transition said.
Still, it is hard to diminish Mr. Lindsey. Seated beside Mr. Bush today at the economic conference, he was both far taller and wider than the president-elect. His sunny demeanor seemed to defy his dour predictions about the economy.
While other economists said the Clinton-era economic expansion could quickly run out of steam, few had Mr. Lindsey's economic insight and political instinct.
Lawrence Benjamin Lindsey is married with two children. He was born July 18, 1954, in Peekskill, N.Y., to parents who taught at public schools. He attended Bowdoin College in Maine, where he sold hot dogs to help pay his college bills.
He went to Harvard to get his doctorate in economics. There he met Mr. Feldstein, a leading macroeconomist who became President Ronald Reagan's chief economic adviser and brought Mr. Lindsey, then in his late 20's, to the White House.
Mr. Lindsey returned to Harvard to complete his dissertation and became one of the nation's leading specialists on tax policy. He has sought to diagnose how taxes affect economic growth, corporate investment and consumer savings and spending. He has also been a leading defender of President Reagan's 1981 tax cuts. A 1990 book he wrote on the subject, "The Growth Experiment," concluded that the sharp reduction in tax rates revolutionized the American economy at relatively little cost to the federal government.
He returned to Washington as an economic adviser to President George Bush, who appointed him a Federal Reserve Board governor. Mr. Lindsey was one of the youngest people to hold the post. Mr. Lindsey developed a close relationship with Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman.
Though he is a somewhat shame-faced supply-sider -- he rejects the label and has tempered his championship of tax cuts with measures intended to aid lower income groups -- Mr. Lindsey has become a hero to conservative economists, one of the most eloquent and persistent defenders of Reaganomics.
"Larry has always been a little over the top in support of the Reagan tax cuts," said Alan Blinder, who worked with Mr. Lindsey when the two were Fed governors and who is now an economist at Princeton University. But Mr. Blinder, who has sparred repeatedly with Mr. Lindsey and served as one of Vice President Al Gore's top advisers, said Mr. Lindsey was a smart, multidimensional economist who, unlike some supply-siders, does not focus exclusively on taxes.
"There is more to life than marginal tax rates, and he knows it," Mr. Blinder said.
As the 2000 presidential race approached, Mr. Lindsey frequently wrote op-ed articles staking out positions on a variety of economic topics. He criticized the way the Clinton administration managed the dollar.
He has repeatedly said that the Clinton administration has bungled relations with Japan, the world's second-largest economy, and has called for a more cooperative relationship with that nation.
But the main issue that ingratiated Mr. Lindsey to the president-elect was taxes. Mr. Lindsey drew up a plan to reduce rates for all taxpayers, including a reduction in the top rate to 33 percent from 39.6 percent. He argued passionately that the tax reductions would prompt consumers to save more money, helping insulate the nation from a deep recession if the long boom -- which he has repeatedly called a bubble -- were to pop.
Democrats criticized the tax cut as a giveaway to the rich that threatened the drive to reduce government debt. The warnings were echoed by many mainstream economists, especially because the nation's economy at the time the tax plan was proposed seemed poised to overheat, rather than contract.
But Mr. Lindsey, like Cassandra, has stuck to his forecast, and he will now have a chance to help a president push for tax reductions at a time when the economy appears to have cooled dramatically.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Photo: Lawrence B. Lindsey, President-elect George W. Bush's top economic adviser, is one of the nation's most persistent defenders of Reaganomics. (Agence France-Presse) Chart: "PROFILE: Lawrence Lindsey" BORN: July 18, 1954, Peekskill, N.Y. HOMETOWN: Peekskill EDUCATION: Lakeland High School, Peekskill; Bowdoin College, A.B.; Harvard, M.A. and Ph.D. CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: Economist, Council of Economic Advisers, 1981-84; assistant and associate professor, Harvard, 1984-90; faculty research fellow, National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, Mass., 1984-89; associate director and special assistant to the president, Office of Policy Development, 1989-91; governor, Federal Reserve Board, 1991-97; resident scholar, American Enterprise Institute, 1997-present; managing director, Economic Strategies Inc., 1997-present. FAMILY: Married to Susan Ann McGrath; one son, one daughter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (88%); TAX LAW (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) KAHN, JOSEPH; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); LINDSEY, LAWRENCE B 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



69 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: THE RATE CUT: THE STRATEGY; 
The First Cut is Not Taxes

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

 BODY:
In using his power over interest rates yesterday, Alan Greenspan found himself in the middle of a debate over whether his move would help or hinder President-elect George W. Bush's push to enact a big tax cut.
 In one view, Mr. Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, ratified all the warnings that Mr. Bush and his team had issued in recent weeks about the risks of a downturn, and signaled that the economy needed all the help it could get. A tax cut, in this view, is more necessary than ever to give the economy a kick. 
 Alternatively, Mr. Greenspan is acting pre-emptively, before the new administration takes office, to assert that the central bank has things under control. Monetary policy, not fiscal policy, is the appropriate and most effective tool, in this view, for managing the ups and downs of the business cycle, and while there might be a case for a tax cut, it should not be driven by short-term economic conditions.
Is Mr. Greenspan Mr. Bush's new best friend? Or is he a nemesis?
"There are two diametrically opposed ways to read this," said Alan S. Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman who was an adviser to Vice President Al Gore in the presidential campaign.
"One is that Greenspan has now thrown in his lot with Bush-Cheney in terms of the danger of the economy going to hell," he said.
"The other way is to read this as verifying the view of almost all economists that are not in the actual or hoped-for employ of the Bush administration that if you're going to take action to bolster the economy it better be through monetary policy because the Fed can act quickly. Greenspan is aware that he is sort of doing both," Mr. Blinder said. 
The Federal Reserve nearly always acts on the basis of economic conditions, and there is nothing to suggest that its decision to cut interest rates yesterday was motivated by anything but a desire to steer away from a looming recession. But Mr. Greenspan is one of the most experienced of Washington hands, and he is well aware that he operates in a very political context. In a city where politics and economics are inextricably mixed, he commands considerable sway, sometimes more than he intends, on issues not directly under his purview.
Mr. Greenspan has a somewhat complicated view of tax cuts, one that allows both supporters and opponents of Mr. Bush's plan to claim him as an ally.
As the federal budget surplus has grown in recent years, Mr. Greenspan has repeatedly stressed that the first priority should be to pay down the national debt. His position helped President Clinton and Democrats in Congress to block Republican tax cuts over the last few years.
But Mr. Greenspan is an ideological conservative with a strong belief that reducing taxes helps improve the economy's ability to grow over the long run. And he has always left himself some wiggle room by saying that if the choice is between cutting taxes or increasing government spending, he much prefers tax cuts.
With projections of the surplus rising almost by the month, Mr. Greenspan could also signal down the road that there is enough money on the table to reduce the debt substantially and have enough left over for a sizable tax cut. And with Mr. Bush pledging to hold down government spending, Mr. Greenspan could have cover to say that the risks of profligacy are under control.
In Washington, members of both parties are looking closely at the emerging relationship between Mr. Bush and Mr. Greenspan, especially given the rocky relationship between the Fed chairman and Mr. Bush's father, who has blamed the Fed in part for his loss in 1992.
It was no doubt an accident of timing that Mr. Greenspan acted so muscularly on a day when Mr. Bush was meeting with business executives to build a case for his plan to cut taxes by $1.6 trillion over 10 years -- the same day on which Congress convened to begin considering the president-elect's agenda.
But it was hard to miss the symbolism of the Fed trumping Mr. Bush's message of the day, even if inadvertently. And the timing served to intensify the debate over the merits of Mr. Bush's tax plan.
Before the Fed's surprise decision, Democratic leaders were signaling that the downturn had reached a stage where they were open to a bigger tax cut than they would have supported a few months ago, though not one as big as Republicans were pressing for. 
After the Fed's announcement, Democrats suggested that if the Fed were successful, there would be less need to make the tax cut as big as Mr. Bush wants, or to rush it through Congress.
"I think most economists would argue that reducing the interest rate has more immediate impact on spurring the economy than anything we can do with taxes," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader. "So I think it does to a certain extent take away the argument that we've got to point to taxes as the only way to continue to see this economic growth. We're going to be able to do it and we can do it through lower interest rates."
Republicans said monetary policy and fiscal policy could work hand in hand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); CONSERVATISM (65%); NATIONAL DEBT (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); AL GORE (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



70 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1692 words

HEADLINE: THE RATE CUT: THE REACTION; 
Bush Cheers Fed's Action And Tax Cut

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Surprised and buoyed by Alan Greenspan's sudden cut in interest rates, President-elect George W. Bush and a group of American business leaders he was meeting with today said the Federal Reserve chairman's action underscored the need for a deep, across-the-board tax cut to sustain economic growth.
 "One of the messages Mr. Greenspan sent was that we need bold action, not only at the Fed, but I would interpret that to mean bold action in the halls of Congress to make sure this economy stays vibrant," Mr. Bush told reporters today, shortly after an aide interrupted his lunch with the executives to pass on the news that the financial landscape had changed as they were meeting. John F. Welch Jr., the soon-to-retire chairman of General Electric, said the group responded by "raising a glass of water" in a toast to Mr. Greenspan. 
 Mr. Bush, brushing past Mr. Greenspan's reservations about deep tax cuts, added: "I think it's really important for members of the Congress to understand that the tax relief plan I've put forth is an integral part of economic recovery." 
At the same time, Mr. Bush was clearly trying to ensure that the rate cut did not take the wind out of his tax plan, arguing today that an easing of interest rates was not enough. "I think that if you were to talk to the business leaders here, they'll tell you that a rate reduction of one-half percent is not enough to serve as a stimulus to encourage capital formation, economic growth, job creation," he said. "It's going to require not only monetary policy reform but also fiscal policy reform."
Mr. Bush's aides said that the interest rate cut was likely to set the relationship between the incoming president and the Fed chairman off to a good start -- in sharp contrast to the frosty interchanges between Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Bush's father, the former president. The elder Mr. Bush blamed Mr. Greenspan for not moving fast enough to speed the recovery from the recession of the early 1990's that ultimately cost the former president the 1992 election. 
After their lunch with the president-elect was over, a parade of executives who flew in here today for the modest economic discussions -- they lasted only two and a half hours -- endorsed Mr. Bush's tax cut plan. That was hardly a surprise: the invitation list was heavily skewed toward big contributors to the Bush presidential campaign last year and toward business executives and economists who were known for their agreement with Mr. Bush's economic strategy.
"There was zippo argument on the need for a tax cut, none whatsoever," said Floyd Kvamme, the Silicon Valley venture capitalist who has occasionally been named as a possible "technology czar" in the Bush White House. "We didn't discuss the details, but the direction that everyone wanted to go was clear. The only question was how fast it could be done."
In fact, Mr. Bush's aides voiced the hope today that their effort to win support for a broad tax cut got a significant political boost today. By acting between meetings of the Fed's governing board, an unusual step, Mr. Greenspan was essentially endorsing the more dire view of the American slowdown that Mr. Bush and his vice president-elect, Dick Cheney, have been describing in recent weeks. That is in considerable contrast to the Clinton administration's portrayal of the economy; in fact, during his visit to Washington just before Christmas, Mr. Bush sat silently in the Oval Office as Mr. Clinton recited a series of economic projections that made the slowdown sound considerably less severe.
But the numbers have worsened ever since, and Mr. Bush's aides have said, when speaking on condition that their names not be used, that Mr. Clinton was simply trying to preserve his legacy as the president who commanded one of the most spectacular rises in American economic history. 
Even some Democrats appear to be moving gingerly in Mr. Bush's direction. This morning, just hours before the Fed announcement, Richard Gephardt, the House minority leader, said of a tax cut: "It may be that it has to get bigger because a recession is looming, and we've got economic worries out there." 
Democrats had previously avoided uttering the word recession. But Mr. Gephardt added: "We're going to fight over the complexion of it. What is it? Who gets it? How much do they get? We think hard-working middle-income families, people trying to get in the middle class, are the ones that really need this tax cut, not the people at the top. I think we can work out a compromise where everybody gets some of what they want." 
After the Fed's announcement, however, Tom Daschle, the Senate Democratic leader, said the Fed's intervention might take the air out of the movement for a tax cut because easing monetary policy would do more to spur the economy in the short run than any tax cut could. 
The "people at the top" that Mr. Gephardt referred to were well represented at the meeting of business leaders, held at a hotel not far from the governor's mansion where Mr. Bush is packing up for his move to the White House. Mr. Bush packed the ballroom with some of the stars of American business, from Mr. Welch and Mr. Kvamme of Kleiner Perkins Caufield Byers, to John Chambers, the chairman of Cisco Systems, and Kenneth Lay, the chairman and chief executive of Enron and one of Mr. Bush's most enthusiastic supporters.
Their exchange began this morning before the Fed's announcement. When word of the action spread, Mr. Bush's top economic adviser, Lawrence B. Lindsey, slipped into the bar next door to watch CNN. "Great," he said, "The Fed is always right." Mr. Lindsey served on the Fed in the early 1990's.
Appropriately, hanging just over the bar is the mounted head of a Texas longhorn -- and a bull run on the market took off as Mr. Bush, Mr. Lindsey and the business leaders were moving to dessert.
Unlike President-elect Clinton's economic summit meeting in December 1992, which was broadcast live and featured the president-elect as seminar leader in a national Economics 101 lecture, Mr. Bush's consultations today were in private. And except for some carefully measured statements that largely restated campaign positions, he let the executives themselves do the talking -- either because he felt they could better build support for his program or because he does not yet feel comfortable musing about the economy and the markets live on television.
"It would be risky," one of the executives who attended today's session said. "He did fine in private. But you know what's it's like -- one slip about the dollar, and the markets would be reacting before he ever got out the door."
Without exception, the executives endorsed Mr. Bush's plan and said Mr. Greenspan had done the right thing today -- but perhaps a little late. "The only wish we had was that they had done it earlier," said Mr. Chambers, whose companies make the servers that drive the Internet. He said that Mr. Bush was "a very good listener, he is good at remembering who people are," what business they are in and how their business is doing.
What the president-elect heard, by and large, reinforced Mr. Bush's view that the economy is headed down faster than expected. Nancy Lazar, a partner at International Strategy and Investments, an investment firm in New York, said after the meeting that "my biggest fear is that the slowdown is more severe and long-lasting than people expect." She said a tax cut would be "a good start " and noted that it would take time, at least six months, for the interest rate cut announced today to flow through the economy.
Several executives at today's session were considered, and rejected, for top posts in the Bush cabinet, including Treasury secretary. A few more appear to be angling for subcabinet positions, and today was a chance for them to strut their stuff, though it had to be done carefully so as not to appear to be too eager for a job in Washington. 
Mr. Bush is about to inherit the job that one participant -- Steve Forbes -- sought until he was knocked out of the Republican primaries. Mr. Forbes said that a tax cut was "a good idea six months ago, 12 months ago, and it's a better idea now." The Fed, he said, "had a weird notion that there was something wrong with prosperity," but he believed that Mr. Greenspan had come around. "The Fed has taken one small step, and the president and the Congress have to take the next one."

Here is a list of confirmed attendees at the economic meeting in Austin, Tex.

Craig R. Barrett
Chief executive, Intel

J. T. Battenberg III
Chairman, Delphi Automotive Systems

Stephen Brobeck
Executive director, Consumer Federation of America

Daniel A. Carp
Chief executive, Eastman Kodak

John T. Chambers
Chief executive, Cisco Systems

Philip M. Condit
Chairman, Boeing

Richard K. Davidson
Chairman, Union Pacific

Michael S. Dell
Chairman, Dell Computer

Thomas J. Donohue
Chief executive, U.S. Chamber of Commerce

Stanley F. Druckenmiller
Chairman, Duquesne Capital Management

Jack Faris
President, National Federation of Independent Business

Donald V. Fites
Former chairman, Caterpillar

Steve Forbes
Chief executive, Forbes

Raymond V. Gilmartin
Chairman, Merck

Carlos M. Gutierrez
Chief executive, Kellogg

John M. Hennessy
Chairman for private equity, CS First Boston

Kenneth Langone
Chairman, Invemed

Harvey L. Karp
Chairman, Mueller Industries

Nancy Lazar
Partner, Intl. Strategy and Investments

Charles F. Knight
Chief executive, Emerson Electric

Bruce Kovner
Chairman, Caxton

Floyd Kvamme
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers

Kenneth L. Lay
Chairman, Enron

Terry Jorde
Independent Community Bankers of America

James C. Morgan
Chief executive, Applied Materials

Gerald Parsky
Aurora Capital

Robert E. Rich
Chairman, Grocery Mfrs. of America

H. Lee Scott Jr.
Chief executive, Wal-Mart Stores

Ivan G. Seidenberg
Co-chief exec., Verizon

John Snow
Chairman, CSX

Solomon D. Trujillo
Chairman, Graviton

Rick Wagoner
Chief executive, General Motors

Darcy L. Walker Senior V.P., Discover Financial Services

John F. Welch Jr.
Chairman, General Electric

Miles D. White
Chairman, Abbott Labs.

Michael W. Wright
Chairman, Super Valu

Advisers to George W. Bush: Andrew H. Card Jr, Josh Bolten, Lawrence B. Lindsey, Karl Rove, Karen P. Hughes 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); RECESSION (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; TAXATION 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); JACK WELCH (57%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BUSH, GEORGE PRESCOTT (FORMER PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (64%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



71 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Call for Good Will Opens Narrowly Split Congress 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL and LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
As President Clinton, spouse, looked on from the Senate visitors gallery, the 107th Congress came into session today so closely divided that the Democrats were able to take control of the Senate, however tenuously, for 17 days until the new Republican administration is sworn in.
 Still struggling over how to share power in such uncharted circumstances, the two parties pleaded for good will. And for a day, at least, they set aside some enmity as they watched some extraordinary, even unprecedented, scenes unfold. 
 Vice President Al Gore, presiding over the Senate in one of his final acts in office, won a standing ovation. He rose to accept the acclaim and laughingly reminded the chamber that "boisterous demonstrations" were forbidden. 
And for the first time in the nation's history, a first lady was sworn into office as a senator: Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York. Although she was only one of 11 freshman senators, Mrs. Clinton was like a magnet as she sat in an electric blue pantsuit at her desk in the last row of the Senate chamber. A constant parade of kissing, handshaking and backslapping colleagues came to her side.
From above, President Clinton watched, sometimes whispering to his daughter, Chelsea, and at other moments looking amused or engrossed, his chin cupped in his hand. Mrs. Clinton even won a long hug from 98-year-old Senator Strom Thurmond, Republican of South Carolina. 
All day the fallout from the narrow election was evident and the mood swung from hopeful to bittersweet to confrontational. Not since the Eisenhower administration has there been anything close to the 50-50 split in the Senate and the narrow Republican majority in the House.
"This is a historic day," said Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota. "Never before in the history of our nation have we had a 50-50 Senate."
With Mr. Gore able to cast the tie-breaking vote in the Senate until Dick Cheney is sworn in as vice president on Jan. 20, the defeated presidential candidate declared Mr. Daschle the temporary majority leader. Mr. Daschle grinned broadly at his peculiar 17-day window of power and threw his arms out wide in a gesture of amusement. He promptly won an ovation from both parties.
"I must confess that in six years as minority leader, I've had a moment or two when I wondered if this day would ever arrive," he said. "I assure you I intend to savor every one of the next 17 days." 
Whether the narrow divide brings a new impulse to reach across the aisle or bitter gridlock will determine President-elect George W. Bush's chances of legislative success.
A fierce struggle is expected for the allegiance of the moderate and conservative Democrats who are interested in some parts of Mr. Bush's proposals for education, Social Security and Medicare overhaul.
Showing some willingness to compromise, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, Democrat of Missouri, the House minority leader, and Mr. Daschle said they would be willing to look at larger tax cuts than they had in the past because of the economic slowdown. But they stopped well short of endorsing Mr. Bush's proposed $1.6 trillion 10-year tax cut.
In the House, Representative J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois was elected to a second term as speaker and urged lawmakers to put aside the bitter feelings lingering from the contested presidential election. "It is only in Washington where there may be lingering animosity of the political parties," Mr. Hastert said. "My friends, we need to get over it."
He called on the House to work with Mr. Bush on an agenda including tax cuts, education measures and overhauling the Medicare and Social Security systems. He said Mr. Bush's call for a $1.6 trillion tax cut would "stimulate economic growth." 
"I believe we have a duty to our constituents to consider this proposal," Mr. Hastert said. "Together we can work with the new president to keep our economy strong and to give tax relief to all Americans."
One Democrat, Representative James A. Traficant Jr. of Ohio, who has been wooed by the Republicans with pork-barrel projects, broke party ranks today and supported Mr. Hastert for speaker. Democrats joined Republicans in their applause for the vote, a gesture of good riddance to Mr. Traficant, who has said he expects to be indicted as a result of a corruption investigation in Youngstown, Ohio.
Democrats said Mr. Traficant would no longer be treated as a member of their caucus. "He cannot call himself a member of the Democratic Party," said Laura Nichols, a spokeswoman for Mr. Gephardt.
Another conservative Democrat, Representative Gene Taylor of Mississippi, in protest, voted for Representative John P. Murtha, a conservative Pennsylvania Democrat, as party leader instead of Mr. Gephardt.
Despite two years of bitter struggle for control of the House, Mr. Hastert and Mr. Gephardt were gracious to each other. But it took just hours for House Republicans and Democrats to begin battling over procedure, as the Democrats opposed a package of rules for the new Congress. Democrats said they had not been consulted when the Republicans drew up the proposed rules and that they had not been given adequate representation on committees.
"Bipartisanship should be more than words," Mr. Gephardt said. "It should be backed up by deeds and action."
As part of the rules package, House Republicans abolished the Committee on Banking and created a new panel, the Committee on Financial Services, which includes jurisdiction over securities and insurance. The move could pave the way for the Republicans to bypass Representative Marge Roukema, Republican of New Jersey, a moderate, when they select new committee chairmen on Thursday. Ms. Roukema had been in line for the Banking Committee post.
While tempers did not flare in the Senate, the two parties were still trying to negotiate ground rules for operating with a 50-50 split.
Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, said Democrats were no longer asking for co-chairmen. "We continue to talk and I think we've made progress," Mr. Lott said.
The Senate quickly passed measures naming Democrats as committee chairmen for the next 17 days and Republicans as chairmen come Jan. 20.
The Democrats are not threatening to do much during their short reign, but that could change if the power-sharing negotiations break down.
Some of the day's most poignant moments belonged to Mr. Gore, who was gracious, funny and impassioned as he swore in the new members of the Congressional Black Caucus and called them the "conscience of the Congress."
And when it came time for the vice president to swear in Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut Democrat who had been his running mate, he gave him a warm hug.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As House members and their families roamed the floor, Dick Armey, Republican of Texas, the majority leader, talked yesterday with two Democrats, John Lewis of Georgia and Jesse L. Jackson Jr. of Illinois. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); HISTORY (69%); ETHICS (60%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; ETHICS 

COMPANY: MAGNET AS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US) 

INDUSTRY: SIC5023 HOME FURNISHINGS (69%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); TOM DASCHLE (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (78%); DICK CHENEY (78%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN LEWIS (58%); JESSE JACKSON (50%) MITCHELL, ALISON; ALVAREZ, LIZETTE; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); CHENEY, DICK; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); HASTERT, J DENNIS (SPEAKER); TRAFICANT, JAMES A JR (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



72 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-16

Arafat Accepts U.S. Plan As Platform for More Talks
The White House said it was moving forward with President Clinton's Mideast peace plan after accepting Yasir Arafat's word that he would abide by the proposals as a basis for further talks. Israel said it would send its top negotiator to Washington but with limits on what he would do. A8

Japan Tackles Bureaucracy
Some 540,000 government officials neared the end of the biggest reorganization in more than a century in an effort to streamline Japan's powerful bureaucracy and in the process weaken its grip on Japanese life. A3

Rally for Czech Journalists
At least 50,000 demonstrators gathered in Prague to show support for striking television journalists who had barricaded themselves inside a state-owned television station to protest what they said was political pressure. A6

NATO Agrees to Uranium Talks
NATO officials said the North Atlantic Council would discuss assertions that six Italian soldiers who died after serving in the Balkans suffered from exposure to depleted uranium in spent NATO ammunition. A13

Plutonium Removal Questioned
A Russian-American disarmament deal to remove 68 tons of plutonium from nuclear weapons could have the unintended effect of increasing chances of nuclear proliferation, an independent researcher reported. A12

Russian Arms in the Baltics
American intelligence agencies say Russia moved short-range nuclear weapons onto one of its military bases in the Baltics. The move would not appear to violate any arms control agreement but would conflict with Moscow's stated policy of keeping the region free of nuclear arms. A10

Suit Against Toronto Mayor
A former lover sued Melvin Lastman, 67, for $4 million, saying it was compensation for a 14-year affair that produced two now grown sons. A5

World Briefing A14

NATIONAL A18-25

Narrowly Divided Congress Begins Its Session Warily
The 107th Congress came into being so closely divided that Democrats will control the Senate, however tenuously, for 17 days, until Dick Cheney replaces Vice President Al Gore as presiding officer and tiebreaker. A23

John Ashcroft, a Republican senator from Missouri who lost his re-election bid, called on former colleagues in advance of his confirmation hearings for attorney general. A24

Rate Rise Recommended
California's Public Utility Commission proposed a roughly 10 percent increase in what consumers pay for electricity, but financial analysts said it was insufficient. A25

Labor Law Violations Cited
An administrative law judge ruled that managers at the world's largest pork processing plant, Smithfield Packing's slaughterhouse in Tar Heel, N.C., committed "egregious and pervasive" labor law violations during unionizing campaigns. A18

Pledges Foster Abstinence
A study found that many teenagers who take public virginity pledges delay having intercourse substantially longer than those who do not. A22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Remaking Practice of Medicine
A new movement led by doctors seeks to ease patients' aggravation by expediting the scheduling of appointments and employing innovations like group office visits. A1

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

EDUCATION

Big Bequest to Furman
An eccentric, reclusive textile magnate, John D. Hollingsworth, who died at age 83 last week, bequeathed nearly half his estate to Furman University in Greenville, S.C., in one of the largest donations of its kind. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Pataki Urges Local Control Of Most State School Aid
Governor Pataki used his annual address to the Legislature to call on lawmakers to streamline how the state pays for education, to give local districts more control over how they spend such aid. A1

First Lady Gets New Title
Hillary Rodham Clinton completed a unique political journey as she became the only first lady to be sworn in as a United States senator. President Clinton watched from the visitors' gallery, near other spouses. A1

Jury Selection in Terror Trial
Lawyers in the trial of four men charged in the 1998 bombings of two American embassies in Africa began interviewing prospective jurors, who face the prospect of a proceeding lasting 10 months or more. B1

Big Damages in Police Killing
A federal jury awarded more than $2 million to the children of a Long Island man who was fatally shot on the street five years ago by a Nassau County police officer. B1

Carlyle Sold for $130 Million
The Carlyle Hotel, an Upper East Side preserve of presidents, prime ministers and celebrities, has been sold to Maritz, Wolff & Company, which owns 17 other luxury hotels. B1

Neediest Cases B4

CIRCUITS G1-10

SPORTS D1-8

Sooners Are Champions
The Oklahoma Sooners defeated the Florida State Seminoles, 13-2, in the Orange Bowl. D1

ARTS E1-12

Grammy Award Nominations
The rapper and producer Dr. Dre and Beyonce Knowles of the harmonizing female R&B group Destiny's Child led the field with five each. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Fed Steps In to Cut Rates
The Fed slashed its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point, stunning investors and indicating central bank concern that the economy was stalling. A1

The technology-heavy Nasdaq gained 324.83 points, or 14.2 percent, to 2,616.69, a one-day record for the index. The Dow rose 2.8 percent and the S.& P. jumped 5 percent. C10

President-elect George W. Bush said the Fed action underscored the need for an across-the-board tax cut. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES B7-8

William P. Rogers
A prominent Republican lawyer who served as secretary of state and attorney general, he was 87. B7

Jose Greco
Synonymous with Spanish dancing for many people, he was 82. B8

Marty Glickman
The sports broadcaster was 83. B8

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The Fed moves first; qualified progress in the Mideast; Governor Pataki's wish list.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E11
Crossword E6
Weather B9
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LITIGATION (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (71%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (71%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (66%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (65%); LAWYERS (65%); JUDGES (63%); PORK (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (92%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); AL GORE (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (91%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2001 



73 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 4695 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The New York Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "BEAUTY, HONOR AND TRADITION: THE LEGACY OF PLAINS INDIAN SHIRTS," Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of the American Indian, George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, (212) 514-3700 (through Nov. 4). To Plains Indians of the 18th and 19th centuries, magnificently decorated hide shirts were symbols of bravery earned only by the most courageous in battle. Obsessively fringed and embellished with porcupine quills, paint, ribbon, hair and, later, tight patterns of colored glass beads, the shirts took on the spirits of their owners and even today are made for wear at powwows and in recognition of more peaceful accomplishments. Celebrating the power of this glory gear, almost 50 dazzlers in the museum's collection are on view, dating from about 1820 to the 1990's. Among the more fascinating examples are a brilliantly painted Crow shirt (1890) with beadwork in geometric patterns and frizzy fringes of dyed magenta and yellow hair, and a Lakota shirt, circa 1890, that sports United States Army insignia, the American flag and stepped tepees topped by crosses, all worked in porcupine quills and metal beads. Hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily; Thursdays to 8 p.m. Free. (Grace Glueck).

* "SOL LeWITT: A RETROSPECTIVE," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through Feb. 25). Unexpectedly the most beautiful exhibition by a living artist in a New York museum in a long time and an antidote to the nonsense in several other museums around town. Just about every other wall is covered with wall drawings, alternately eye-popping and gossamer. Those out there (you know who you are) who flee from any artist linked to Conceptualism may want to stop and re-evaluate your views after seeing what's here. The master of chaste white cubes has undergone a transformation since his last retrospective in the late 70's. Now opulence emerges from the same seemingly prosaic instructions he came up with years ago. The appeal is still to patient observation, a lesson for everyone, delivered elegantly. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays and Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $8 for students and the elderly (Michael Kimmelman).

ADRIAN PIPER, New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Jan. 21). Combining Minimalism, Conceptualism and Performance Art, Ms. Piper has been working since about 1970 to force viewers into awareness of their personal complicity in what she views as a pervasively racist system. The best works in this retrospective produce disturbingly intimate psychological theater, as in the riveting video "Cornered" (1988), in which the artist calmly harangues viewers about their presumed complacency as white people. But much of her work has an off-putting, morally bullying tone. An exception is a small, wry, emotionally vulnerable 1981 drawing, "Self-Portrait Exaggerating My Negroid Features." Hours: Wednesdays and Sundays, noon to 6:30 p.m.; Thursdays through Saturdays, noon to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3 for students and the elderly (Ken Johnson).

* CHARLOTTE SALOMON, Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200 (through March 25). Put aside as much as possible the grim death that has boxed Salomon, like Anne Frank, into the eye-glazing, inviolate category of Holocaust artist, a disservice to her. "Life? Or Theater?," her quasi-fictional diary of text and nearly 800 pictures cued to musical themes, will make you feel you are in good company while flattering your intelligence. The allusions are varied, the tone at times surprisingly light. Film was a big inspiration to Salomon. Images vary among close-ups, flashbacks, long shots and montage. She had an illustrator's gift for distillation and paraphrase. The result is a complex meditation on the connection between love and art. It is a coming-of-age story about a woman squeezing a whole life into one great gesture. Ultimately the energy counts most, a civilizing energy. "Take good care of it," Salomon told the man to whom she entrusted the work before she was shipped off to Auschwitz. "It is my whole life." So it was. Hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Tuesdays to 8 p.m. Admission: $8; $5.50 for students over 11 and the elderly (Kimmelman).

* "JOHN WESLEY: PAINTINGS 1961-2000," P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084 (through Jan. 14). For 40 years Mr. Wesley's paintings have maintained the same mild form of constructive lunacy. The art world has a handful of indispensable visionaries like Mr. Wesley who help to keep everyone else honest. You may not enjoy his show, the first full-dress local retrospective, only because simple pleasure is not the intended effect. The images are borrowed from magazines and comics: Blondie and Dagwood, Donald Duck and young naked women, painted flat, like coloring-book designs, with delicate black outlines and off-key colors. The style alludes to Matisse, Hokusai, Greek vase painting, Art Nouveau and Toulouse-Lautrec. Emotion is there below the comic exterior, and it is pathos, mostly. Mr. Wesley offers up sex as unquenchable desire and woeful male inadequacy, a black comedy of men chasing after women they can only dream about. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5 (Kimmelman).

* "WHO STOLE THE TEPEE?" Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of the American Indian, George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, (212) 514-3700 (through Jan. 21). The question posed here is what happened to native traditions in the 20th century, with comments by 35 contemporary Indian artists in the form of craft work, paintings, drawings, sculptures and photographs. There are earlier artifacts, too, like a Choctaw beaded baseball cap decorated with a feather. Among the present-day standouts are a witty painting by Jim Logan, of Cree and Sioux descent, in which the Eurocentric figures of Michelangelo's "Creation of Man" on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel are replaced by an Indian God reaching out to touch the finger of an Indian Adam. If the show doesn't really answer the question it poses, it raises it with a healthy dose of Indian humor. Hours and admissions: See above. (Glueck).

* "YES YOKO ONO," Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155 (through Jan. 14). The eye roll, a vestigial reflex, has the effect of not allowing you to see what is in front of you. It is understandably used these days to respond to celebrity spectacles passing themselves off as art events in local cultural establishments. Occasionally, however, you will miss something. You should bear this in mind here. We see Yoko Ono as she was before she became a celebrity: a mischievous, wry conceptual artist with a canny sensibility, cool but not dry, sometimes sweet, even corny -- and way ahead of her time in giving acute visual form to women's issues. As well as anyone, she encapsulated an evanescent and shifting moment in art. Fame distorts, and the show helps set the record straight. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; $3, students and the elderly (Kimmelman).

Galleries: Uptown

* JAMES CASTLE, "The Common Place," Knoedler, 19 East 70th Street, (212) 794-0550 (through Jan. 13). Though deaf, speechless and illiterate, Castle (1900-77) drew with miraculous originality and steadfastness of purpose for most of his life. This exhibition presents more than 100 drawings, assemblages and small books, all created using homemade and found materials. The artist's strangely somber views of the ordinary rooms and grounds of the Idaho farm where he grew up have a haunting, deeply moving presence (Johnson).

"CHAMBER WORKS BY FREDERICK C. FRIESEKE," Hollis Taggart, 48 East 73rd Street, (212) 628-4000 (through Jan. 13). An adept but unoriginal American Impressionist who spent his adult life in Europe, Frieseke did his best work from the turn of the century to the late 1910's. Reflecting influences of Whistler, Sargent, Bonnard and Vuillard, his watercolors and oil paintings from that period have a sensuous feel for paint, color and light. But a 1920 series devoted to a pudgy nude on a pink drapery-enveloped bed is like Renoir at his worst (Johnson).

"THE FINE ART OF LETTERS: THE WORK OF HERMANN ZAPF," Grolier Club, 47 East 60th Street, (212) 838-6690 (through Feb. 10). Although revered within the closely related worlds of type design, calligraphy and fine book publishing, Hermann Zapf is all but unknown to the millions who see his work every day. His alphabets are among the core fonts on most Macintosh and Microsoft computers; his revolutionary sans-serif typeface, Optima, is ubiquitous in publishing and advertising and was used on Maya Lin's Vietnam War Memorial in Washington. This dense, elegant survey includes examples of original broadsides and limited-edition silkscreen prints that showcase Mr. Zapf's gifts as a calligrapher, as well as type specimens, dust jackets, title pages and copies of his influential manuals. Because of Mr. Zapf's prodigious start (in Germany, in the 1930's, when type still meant hot metal), long career, high productivity and continued innovation, the show tells much of the story of 20th-century type design. But mainly it introduces an artist of astonishing gifts and is infused with his drive and clarity of vision (Roberta Smith).

CHRIS GALLAGHER, James Graham & Sons, 1014 Madison Avenue, at 78th Street, (212) 535-5767 (through Jan. 13). Working wet-into-wet, Mr. Gallagher paints richly colored, finely striated fields. In the best cases, alternately blended and crisply defined stripes arcing across the canvas create an optically pulsating, centrifugal energy, like the grooves of a spinning record or the rings of a distant planet (Johnson).

PER KIRKEBY, Michael Werner, 4 East 77th Street, (212) 988-1623 (through Jan. 20). Though separated by almost two millenniums, large monotypes by the Danish painter and sculptor and a set of small southern Arabian alabaster carvings from the first century A.D. -- wide-eyed heads, mostly -- go together just fine. Jittery, expressionistic abstractions suggestive of landscape, Mr. Kirkeby's works play the pulse of a nervously modern sensibility off the soulfully alert stillness of an ancient traditionalism (Johnson).

Galleries: 57th Street

HERMINE FORD, Grant Selwyn, 37 West 57th Street, (212) 755-0434 (through Jan. 27). Painting on blob-shaped plywood panels, this New Yorker, who had her first show in 1974, produces elegantly funky compositions in which flat fields of muted offbeat color -- avocado, eggplant, navel orange, dusty blue -- play off brief wandering lines and blurry, marginal textures. An unassuming buoyancy calls early Elizabeth Murray to mind (Johnson).

CRAIG McPHERSON, Mary Ryan, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 397-0669 (through Jan. 27) An impressively skillful pastel artist, Mr. McPherson has produced a spectacular tour de force in that delicate medium: wrapping continuously around three walls, 18 large paper sheets bear the panoramic nocturnal view of languidly rippling water reflecting red and green city harbor lights. More than 60 feet long, it verges on abstraction yet produces an enveloping, cinematically lush effect (Johnson).

GWYNN MURRILL, Washburn, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 397-6780 (through Jan. 20). Three bronze deer rendered life-size in a smoothly simplified manner by this Los Angeles-based sculptor have a tense, remarkably animated presence. An eagle and a cheetah seem artificially stylized by comparison. (Johnson)

KENNETH NOLAND, "Circles," Ameringer/ Howard, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 935-1110 (through Jan. 20). In recent years Mr. Noland has returned to the target format that made him a famous Color Field painter in the 1950's. Painted in various confectionary color combinations on square fields of metallic color, these new bull's-eyes have misty auras but an empty, generic look, as if the artist were channeling the spirit of Warhol. The Target department store people might take note (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

ROBIN LOWE, "Erehwon," Bonakdar Jancou, 521 West 21st Street, (212) 414-4144 (through Jan. 13). Mr. Lowe's large Magic Realist paintings look like scenes from a Jungian dream. A winding road leads into the forest. A lawn gnome with a lamp guards a broken-down farmhouse. A white goat drinks from an aboveground swimming pool in a stony field. Painting in saturated colors with hallucinogenic precision, Mr. Lowe gives vivid visibility to offbeat, psychologically intriguing fantasies (Johnson).

"NEUTOPIA," Audiello, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 675-9082 (through Jan. 27). Five artists playfully redesign modernity. Both Christopher Schank and Carlos Ancalmo skillfully build elaborate surrealistic, multilevel architectural structures of wood, foam, plastic and other materials; Pablo Vargas-Lugo turns cardboard boxes into works of surprising Constructivist elegance; Jay Davis's glossy pictures are like a combination of traditional Japanese landscape painting and science fiction illustration; and Anna Sew Hoy creates absurd conjunctions of child-size bicycles and giant blobs of putty (Johnson).

"THE PERFECT POSE," Lucas Schoormans, 508 West 26th Street, (212) 243-3159 (through Jan. 13). This show presents vintage celebrity and fashion photography made from the 1920's to the 1940's for Vogue or Vanity Fair magazines by 13 photographers, including Andre Durst, George Hoyningen-Huene and Edward Steichen. This is high kitsch, not high art, but you can still be seduced by, for example, the image of a pouty young Tallulah Bankhead sitting chin in hand at a glassy black bar in a duskily luminous picture by Cecil Beaton (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

"DEATH RACE 2000," Thread Waxing Space, 476 Broadway, near Spring Street, (212) 966-9520 (through Jan. 13). Organized around a ramshackle wooden racetrack built by Andreas Schlaegel, Phillip Zaiser and Thomas Zipp, this sophomoric mess of a 30-artist exhibition means to satirize violent, addictive and otherwise excessive behaviors supposedly driving modern society to destruction. The few interesting works include a funny video by Omer Fast, who used his own voice to replace all sounds in scenes from a Mel Gibson movie, and a life-size machine-gun-toting camel built of cardboard by Alex Baggaley (Johnson).

"PARADISE GARAGE: KEITH HARING AND MUSIC," Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, (212) 343-7300 (through Feb. 10). Celebrating Haring's involvement in the club scene of the 80's, this exhibition presents works shown at or made for the Paradise Garage, his favorite spot for music and dance. Haring's familiar cast of characters -- the barking dogs, crawling babies and manic little men -- are on hand, as is his exuberant decorative sensibility, but the paintings are not first-rate. Haring's best work far exceeded anything here for graphic invention and mythic resonance (Johnson).

"UNCOMFORTABLE BEAUTY," Jack Tilton/Anna Kustera, 49 Greene Street, (212) 941-1775 (through Jan. 13). Updating Bad Girl-style feminism, this uneven but interesting selection of unruly works by 12 women includes Kim Dingle's "Pris," a stocky mannequin of a little girl who looks as if she's about to explode out of her frilly white dress; Marilyn Minter's artful fusions of the painterly and the erotic; and Jocelyn Hobbie's mysterious "Girl in the Woods," painted in a style that looks like a cross between Botticelli and Alex Katz (Johnson).

Other Galleries

DENNIS OPPENHEIM, Ace Gallery, 275 Hudson Street, South Village, (212) 255-5599 (through Feb. 28). This medium-size, occasionally amusing survey is what you would expect: a fun-house mixture of documentary photographs, booming electronics, videos, cockamamie sculpture and installations. The art is, at heart, about how hard it is to make art. Among the early works is a mechanized marionette, "Attempt to Raise Hell" (1974), a self-portrait that smashes its head into a big cast-iron bell. Frustration, anger and violence have been Mr. Oppenheim's creative touchstones, along with a sense of humor. His legacy is to have turned futility into a medium, a singular plan, sometimes effective, but often not memorable enough visually (Kimmelman).

Last Chance

"AMAZONS OF THE AVANT-GARDE," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through Sunday). A concise exercise, monographically arranged, this show focuses on six Russian women who painted around the time of the revolution. Several continued to work much later and do more than paint, but this is a tendentious affair, plausibly so. If just a couple of the women, Natalia Goncharova and Liubov Popova, were truly great painters, the exhibition still isn't a case of special pleading. The Russian avant-garde wouldn't have been what it was without them collectively. The story as it unfolds here seems, if anything, more remarkable, not less, for having as little to do with sex as it does and almost everything to do with painting. Many of the works have a surprising fortitude. Revolution. A brave new art world. The dream persists even though the form it takes keeps changing. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $12; $8 students and the elderly (Kimmelman).

* SIAH ARMAJANI, "Glass Room," Senior & Shopmaker Gallery, 21 East 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 213-6767 (through tomorrow). You couldn't live in this endearingly homespun "glass room," but then it's not meant for that. Made of glass and plexiglass bricks and set on wagon wheels like a prairie schooner, it is packed with fanciful allusions and tributes: to country carpentry, old-style American farm life, vernacular rural architecture and, at the same time, the futuristic visions that glass seems to offer. Despite its transparency, it has a more private aspect than the long roster of bridges, houses, reading rooms, gardens and other structures -- some functional, some purely aesthetic -- with which Mr. Armajani has adorned the built world. Enigmatic yet accessible, sturdily constructed but for contemplation only, "Glass Room" is a sparkling addition (Glueck).

* "ART AND THE EMPIRE CITY: NEW YORK, 1825-1861," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sunday). The point is that during the antebellum years New York began to become, well, New York, America's megalopolis and an international crossroads. The great metaphor was the plan to grid Manhattan: unsentimental, open-ended, utilitarian and democratic, it created the blank sheet on which the city could draw its future. Amusing, gigantic, only marginally an art exhibition, the show is really an ostentatious illustrated history lesson via hundreds of pieces of old crockery, etchings, paintings, rosewood firescreens, daguerreotypes and mother-of-pearl folding fans. Custom-made for today's acquisitive age, the exhibition is probably the only occasion on which a 19th-century brown ceramic water cooler and a six-sided pitcher with pictures of the presidential candidate William Henry Harrison have been presented in the style of the treasures of the pharaoh's palace in "The Ten Commandments." Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:15 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 8:45 p.m. Admission: $10; $5, students and the elderly (Kimmelman).

* "THE EMBODIED IMAGE: CHINESE CALLIGRAPHY FROM THE JOHN B. ELLIOTT COLLECTION," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Sunday). In China the written word has traditionally been the highest art form and a source of political and emotional power. To see that power in action, check out this grandly scaled exhibition, which brings together two superb calligraphy collections -- from Princeton University and the Met -- in the most comprehensive survey yet seen in these parts. The dozens of scrolls covered with handwritten words collectively radiate a kind of conversational buzz and suggest a richly varied cast of personalities: fastidious court functionaries, impulsive social agitators, unworldly monks, visionary poets. Together they offer an ice-breaking introduction to an art that to anyone who doesn't know Chinese can seem unapproachable. Hours and admission: See above (Holland Cotter).

"AN ENGAGEMENT WITH FOLK ART: CYRIL I. NELSON'S GIFTS TO THE MUSEUM OF AMERICAN FOLK ART," 2 Lincoln Square, at West 66th Street, (212) 595-9533 (through Sunday). This show celebrates the largess of Mr. Nelson, a book editor and folk art collector who has given 113 objects to the museum with the promise of more. The works, from the late-18th to the mid-20th centuries, cover the traditional areas of folk art -- portraits, landscapes, sculptures, painted and decorated furniture -- but the focus is on American needlework: quilts, coverlets, blankets and the like. Among the quilt spectaculars is the "Samuel Steinberger Log Cabin Quilt, Courthouse Steps Variation," by a 19th-century immigrant. Painted furniture, too, shines in this show. The painting and sculpture pieces make a more modest impression, but over all what's on view forms a refined, solid ensemble that is very accessible. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Free (Glueck).

"FOUR NON-OBJECTIVE PAINTERS," Katharina Rich Perlow Gallery, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 644-7171 (through tomorrow). Once an art world legend, the German-born painter Hilla Rebay (1890-1967) was a founder and the first director of the Museum of Non-Objective Painting, which evolved into the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. She was also director of the institution from 1937 to 1952. In 1939, with the Guggenheim's backing, she brought her friend Rudolf Bauer, the painter, from Germany to the United States and promoted his work. Rebay and Bauer were devotees of Non-Objective painting, defined by Kandinsky as art with no detectable reference to real-world sources. Their paintings are displayed together here, but it turns out that Bauer, a weak painter who could nevertheless create spirited Kandinskyesque collisions of form and color, makes a better showing. Also on view is "Berlin at Night," a group of mildly naughty drawings by Bauer, who before his Non-Objective career was a caricaturist for satirical German magazines. And there are several paintings from the period by the American painters Balcomb Greene and John Ferren, but not a strong enough showing to amount to much (Glueck).

LEE KRASNER, Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Sunday). Despite its restless energy and moments of formal power and elegance, Lee Krasner's career in this economical retrospective looks more like one of tantalizing frustration than real fulfillment. In the 1950's and early 60's, Krasner painted splattery, ambitious Abstract Expressionist works, but they look indebted to other artists, Pollock and de Kooning mainly. Where she looks most herself is in collage; a set of large collages on canvas from the early 50's have raw density or explosive buoyancy. Collages made in the 1970's using 40-year-old charcoal drawings have a beautiful Cubistic elegance; they are the best works of her career. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. on the first Saturday of each month); Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $4; $2 for students and the elderly (Johnson).

"PIERRE ET GILLES," New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Sunday). No history of postmodern photography, fashion photography, celebrity portraiture, record album covers or the highbrow beefcake tradition would be complete without the work of the French photo team known as Pierre et Gilles, who have collaborated on over-the-top, tightly styled, hand-finished photographs since 1976 and become wildly famous in Europe in the process. In their first American museum retrospective, their work feels more than a little embalmed, existing behind a not-so-invisible shield of artistic conservatism. Certain images come to life as art objects -- most notably, one of a beautiful young sailor up to his chest in water with an iridescent night sky behind him -- but those are few. Hours and admission: See above (Smith).

* "POWER AND DESIRE: SOUTH ASIAN PAINTINGS FROM THE SAN DIEGO MUSEUM OF ART, EDWIN BINNEY 3RD COLLECTION," Asia Society at Midtown, 502 Park Avenue, at 59th Street, (212) 517-2742 (through Sunday). The album-size paintings known as Indian miniatures, produced for an elite clientele who demanded the finest workmanship, are rightly renowned for their suave forms and brilliant colors. They also embody the moral values, political ambitions and personal aspirations of the culture that produced them. All of these ingredients come into play in this show of 67 top-of-the-line examples from the 16th to the 19th centuries. They add up to a kind of grand but intimate theater, equal parts farce, melodrama and mystery play, where men strut like gods, gods have the failings of men and nature is a gorgeous curtain behind which infinity lies. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $4; $2 for students and the elderly (Cotter).

"RUSKIN'S ITALY, RUSKIN'S ENGLAND," Pierpont Morgan Library, 29 East 36th Street, (212) 685-0610 (through Sunday). This show commemorates the 100th anniversary of the death of John Ruskin (1819-1900), artist, art and architectural critic, social reformer, educator and the first official professor of art in England. From its own collections, the Morgan has mined a biographical medley of letters, manuscripts, photographs, drawings, paintings and artifacts relating to the life of this Victorian giant, whose published writings run to 39 volumes. Although not really an art show, it includes paintings and drawings by Ruskin and artists he admired, among them J. M. W. Turner and the Pre-Raphaelites John Everett Millais, William Holman Hunt, Edward Burne-Jones and Dante Gabriel Rossetti. It touches on his widely influential books of criticism, his beautifully finished sketches of architectural structures, his teaching and his monographs on proposed social reforms. Not omitted are his 1877 attack on James McNeill Whistler, his failed marriage and attraction to young girls and his sad end after a long siege of mental illness. But there is much to celebrate in his life, and this show doesn't stint. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6 for students and the elderly; free for children under 13 with an adult (Glueck).

* CINDY SHERMAN, Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, (212) 206-7100, Chelsea (through tomorrow). With her latest untitled series Ms. Sherman is back in front of the camera lens again, disguised as women who, you might say, used to be somebody, maybe. They grin at the camera in clownish makeup, wobbly wigs and discount blouses, proud, valiantly oblivious to or simply defiant of our condescension, like the beauty pageant queen who drops her baton in the talent contest but keeps beaming. Formal devices by Ms. Sherman get overlooked because of the human element: the pattern of pigtails against plaid shirt; the purplish freckled face of a woman with purple shirt and purple cap. This formal order becomes a rational structure that gives the work its mix of frigidity and heat, a perfectly ambiguous cocktail for an ambiguous moment and an antidote to the weary sophistication of which there is too much in art now (Kimmelman).

GRAPHIC: Photos: A view of Dennis Oppenheim's "Attempt to Raise Hell," in the South Village. A mechanized marionette smashes its head into a cast-iron bell. (Ace Gallery); A work by the artist Charlotte Salomon, depicted at left. (The Jewish Museum) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (76%); ARMIES (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (57%); NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



74 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Women Turn to Web To Avoid Sales Pressure 

BYLINE:  By CATHERINE GREENMAN 

 BODY:
WHEN Bonnie Whitehead used to shop for cars, she took her daughter along to deflect pressure from salesmen. Ms. Whitehead, a shipping company executive in Greensboro, N.C., found that when she and her daughter, MitziLynn, bickered over different models, the sales representative tended to bargain more.
 With MitziLynn now married and living in Arizona, Ms. Whitehead dreaded the prospect of visiting dealers alone when she started to look for a new car last year. In addition to wondering how she would fend off sales pressure, the idea of shopping without buying made her guilty. "Probably the thing I felt most uncomfortable about was going into a dealership, taking up some poor salesman's time, and then having him not get the sale," she said. "Once they spend a lot of time with me, I tend to feel apologetic." 
 So Ms. Whitehead decided to be forthright when she walked into a local Subaru dealership and said that she just wanted a test drive -- and that she planned to shop for a deal online. As it turned out, the dealer participated in the referral service offered at Greenlight.com, an online car-buying site, and he suggested that she try it. 
After entering her preferences on Greenlight's Web page, and working with a representative over the phone, Ms. Whitehead ended up buying a Subaru Outback, with the color and options she wanted, at a dealer in Burlington, N.C., about 30 miles away.
"I did a lot of research at Greenlight and could decide on my own without tying up someone else's time," she said. "I didn't have that same feeling of obligation."
Whether it is to research car prices or actually buy a car, many women find that using the Internet is a more comfortable -- and in some cases more profitable -- alternative to braving the salesman's turf: the showroom floor. "I think the most powerful thing a buyer can do is withhold the human element," wrote one visitor to the Women's Auto Corner, an online message board at Edmunds.com, a site that provides information for car shoppers. "That's where the dealers have the edge over many of us."
Only a handful of sites, including Greenlight.com and CarsDirect.com, work directly with car dealerships in a given area to strike an acceptable deal and guide the buyer through the transaction. By having a representative from either of these sites handle the negotiating, buyers could conceivably avoid setting foot in a showroom except to sign the contract and take the keys.
"Greenlight and CarsDirect are trying to offer customers a new way of buying cars," said Babba Shetty, an analyst at Forrester Research, a Cambridge, Mass., Internet research firm. "They're not trying to go around the dealer, but they have a hand-holding process with customers, almost like a concierge service for new-car buying."
Several sites, including Autobytel.com and CarPoint.com, provide referral services, handing off the shopper to a dealer for final negotiations. Edmunds.com and Kelley Blue Book (www.kbb.com) offer invoice and manufacturer pricing information as well as links to other car-buying sites.
Many women say they still feel ignored, or sense other forms of discrimination, when they go to dealerships. "I don't think the issues have changed," said Bonnie Rick, who oversees the Women's Auto Corner message boards at Edmunds.com. "There are still a lot of dealers who treat people poorly based on perceptions of gender -- and also race and socioeconomic status."
It is also generally believed that women get worse deals. "Women tend to pay more; I don't know why," said Art Spinella, president of CNW Marketing/Research, an auto-industry research firm in Bandon, Ore. "They pay higher interest rates for their loans and higher prices on the cars. It may be a case of not wanting to haggle, or not being willing to say, 'That's too much' -- not being aggressive enough."
A recent study of car pricing in California, conducted by the Yale University School of Management and the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley, suggests that women who use online car-buying sites save money.
"In every statistical analysis we've done, we've found that women pay about a half-percent more, or about $100 more per car, than men do," said Fiona Scott Morgan, associate professor of economics at the Yale School of Management. "Women who use the Internet do not pay this half-percent."
Professor Morgan said a likely reason for the findings was that dealers tend to perceive shoppers who come through the online sites as serious buyers. The study also found that both men and women who used Autobytel's referral service got an average price reduction of 2 percent more than if they had gone directly to a dealer.
CNW says that 412,000 vehicles were sold last year to women who used the Internet either to conduct research or make a deal. That represents 28.1 percent of all online car shoppers, up from 24.3 percent in 1999 and 19.6 percent in 1998.
Although many dealers work with the car-buying sites, some say that any consumer will get a better deal by coming to them directly. "Most consumers will make out better by doing their own research online, then by dealing with dealers directly, because the dealers are in the position to make the best deal," said Andrea Carsien, vice president of Teresco Enterprises, a dealership group in Springfield, N.J. "We have the product, the distribution and the chains. Autobytel doesn't have cars in inventory."
Ralph Sibbio, sales manager of the Manhattan Auto Group in New York, said a lot of dealers were trying to erase the stigmas around the treatment of women who buy cars. It is well understood, he said, that asking a woman if her husband or boyfriend would be coming in was very "old school."
"The Internet is not a threat to dealers," Mr. Sibbio said. "A consumer coming in educated usually is a quick sale."
Factors like manufacturer's sales incentives are such "moving targets," Mr. Spinella said, that it's difficult for the research sites to provide consistently accurate information. "The best way to do it is to get whatever information you can online, and understand that the information may or may not be to the dollar," he said. "Always assume that there is yet one more incentive out there that you don't know about or that they don't know about. After you have all the information in hand, the best place to buy is in a showroom, not over the Internet."
While the Internet arms both male and female shoppers with much more information than they once had access to, it has also made the buying process more confusing.
"The dealers who've been trained better to deal with different populations, in general, tend to treat women better, but the overall process has become more complex than it used to be," said Ms. Rick of Edmunds. "You used to go in, and if you think you got some money off, that was good. But now consumers have to think about the invoice price, rebates, incentives and holdbacks" -- money the manufacturers pay to dealers to help cover interest expenses.
But some women who bought cars online said they thought they got the best possible prices. "Ultimately, I felt like I wasn't going to get a better deal than what they had," said Deborah Roberts, an office manager in San Francisco who bought a Volkswagen Jetta through Greenlight last year. "I came out right where they were, and it was exactly what I was willing to pay."
And for some women, the relief of not having to contend with sales pressure is just as important a reason to shop online as whether they actually get the lowest price.
"When I went to the dealers it almost always came down to them saying, 'What's it going to take to put you in this van today?' " said Kathryn Hill, a museum consultant in Norcross, Ga., who bought a Mazda MPV van through Autobytel. "I hate being in a situation where I feel stupid and pressured."
Ms. Hill said the best part of buying through Autobytel was the no-hassle experience. "We put in a price request online Friday night, got a call from a dealer on Saturday, and drove out with it on Sunday," she said. "I wouldn't buy a car any other way."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 18, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Automobiles section on Jan. 5 about women who use the Internet to buy cars misstated the surname of an associate professor of economics at Yale who said that women who did not buy online paid more than men. She is Fiona Scott Morton, not Morgan.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bonnie Whitehead dreaded the prospect of shopping for a car by herself. She bought her Subaru Outback through an online referral. (Duane Hall for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (63%) AUTOMOBILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WOMEN 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: GREENMAN, CATHERINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



75 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Mexico's Heavy Industries Threatened by Natural Gas Costs 

BYLINE:  By GRAHAM GORI 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Blaming high natural gas prices, Hylsamex, Mexico's largest steel manufacturer, has laid off 1,350 workers and closed four plants since September. Other heavy industries say they will follow suit if the government does not curb the cost of natural gas supplied and imported by the national oil monopoly, Pemex.
 Hylsamex's latest plant closing, announced on Tuesday, prompted industry leaders to criticize the way that Mexico sets gas prices. Eight years ago, the government decided to peg prices to the Texas market, believing that one day natural gas would flow freely over the border. 
 Today, thanks in part to the North American Free Trade Agreement, the United States and Mexico do constitute one market. However, in contrast to the situation in the United States, only one Mexican company, Pemex, can produce the fuel.
But Pemex cannot meet the growing demand in Mexico. Because almost all the Pemex profits go to the government, it lacks the funds for exploration, development and production. Analysts estimate that Pemex burns off nearly 30 percent of its natural gas at oil wells, for want of equipment to capture it and move it to consumers. All of that lost energy could meet the growing demand and bring down the cost of natural gas.
If Mexico wants an open market where natural gas is sold freely across the border, industry leaders here say, it must increase exploration and production. 
"The solution is to recognize that the conditions in Mexico are significantly different from Texas," said Alejandro Elizondo Barragan, president of Hylsamex. "We need to establish a pricing system that works in the best interest of the country as a whole. What we're doing now is killing Mexico's industry and killing its workers."
Now, instead of producing iron, which requires loads of natural gas, Mr. Elizondo said that he would import pig iron from Venezuela, the United States and perhaps Russia, even though industry leaders and the Mexican government have reached a temporary agreement on gas prices.
Anticipating that prices will one day fall, companies will pay only $4 per million British thermal units; the market price is close to $10 per million B.T.U.'s. They will then have four years to pay back the difference from the market price at low rates.
Even so, industry analysts say this merely treats the symptoms of a more serious disease. They say the government must either change the pricing system to represent market conditions in Mexico, or spend more money to find and produce natural gas.
"The only long-term solution is not to protect Mexico's companies from market forces, but to seek measures that will allow increased investment" and domestic production, said Sondra Scott, Latin America director at Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
Gilberto Ortiz Muniz, an official at the Manufacturing Industry Chamber, said that glass, aluminum and ceramic companies in northern Mexico had announced that they were evaluating whether to move their factories out of Mexico to countries where gas prices were more stable.
Ms. Scott said the rationale behind the gas pricing system in Mexico is not necessarily flawed. Because of Nafta, the potential exists for the United States and Mexico to have a beneficial trade relationship with gas.
But for that to happen, "Pemex needs to recognize that it operates in a global economy, and start acting like a global company," Ms. Scott said. "Mexico has a lot of potential for natural gas production." 
President Vicente Fox has promised to increase the amount of foreign investment in exploration and development. But it is unclear whether the constitution must be changed to allow private companies to enter into the exploration and development market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (94%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (93%); LAYOFFS (91%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); PRODUCT PRICING (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); ENERGY RESEARCH (73%); POTTERY & CERAMICS MFG (73%); TRENDS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) GAS (FUEL); LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (95%); IHS INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%) PEMEX (MEXICAN OIL CO) 

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: GORI, GRAHAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



76 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
The industry closely watches True North's handover of Chrysler to the Omnicom Group.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliot 

 BODY:
TRANSITION is very much in the news these days, not only in Washington but on Madison Avenue, too. And there were important developments yesterday in the transition being closely watched by the advertising industry as True North Communications hands over its huge Chrysler Group creative and media assignments to the Omnicom Group.
 True North, based in Chicago, said it would take a one-time charge of up to $20 million in the fourth quarter and lay off about 150 employees in the wake of the loss of the assignments, with billings estimated at $1.8 billion. The Chrysler Group, part of DaimlerChrysler A.G., decided in early November to consolidate its accounts with Omnicom, dismissing True North units like FCB Worldwide after 21 years. 
 The steps being taken by True North are emblematic of the substantial effect on the giant agency companies of a spate of consolidations by major marketer clients. When billions of dollars worth of billings are consolidated by advertisers like DaimlerChrysler, Ford Motor, Hasbro, Philip Morris and Unilever, the fallout can be significant.
A restructuring charge of the type True North is taking "does qualify as extraordinary," said Michael J. Russell Jr., an analyst who follows advertising stocks for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in New York. "You don't expect to lose your largest client." The Chrysler Group assignments accounted for about 9 percent of True North's revenue in 2000.
Originally, True North had intended to work on its Chrysler Group tasks, which included producing campaigns for the Chrysler and Jeep lines of cars and sport utility vehicles, through the end of the stipulated contractual notification period, which was to conclude on May 3. Instead, True North agreed with DaimlerChrysler and Omnicom to finish up four months early.
It's almost as if President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore had agreed to leave office on Dec. 23 rather than on Jan. 20.
"We wanted to end this amicably, put it behind us and move on," said Kevin Smith, chief financial officer at True North. In exchange for agreeing to officially end its tenure as of New Year's Day, True North is being paid $13 million by DaimlerChrysler to cover lost revenue; the company will also cover some severance costs and other True North exit expenses.
"My sense is that Chrysler wanted to be fair here," said James Dougherty, an analyst who follows advertising stocks for Prudential Securities in New York."True North isn't doing anything that Omnicom isn't perfectly capable of doing" sooner rather than later, he added. "If it was dragging out, why not just get it over?"
And Omnicom, based in New York, agreed to assume some leases from True North and buy office equipment; the dollar amount involved is not being disclosed.
The restructuring charge True North is taking will be $17 million to $20 million, or 19 to 23 cents a share. Analysts had expected True North to earn 92 cents a share in the fourth quarter, according to First Call/ Thomson Financial.
"When we first announced the loss, we were hoping we would not have to take a charge," Mr. Smith said. "We hoped revenue would allow us to cover our exit costs." But when it became apparent that was not the case, he added, plans for the charge were made. One effect of severing ties with Chrysler on Jan. 1 rather than on May 3 is that True North will be ready earlier than expected to pursue another automotive client.
"That really wasn't the motivation," Mr. Smith said, adding: "We continue to look for an auto account. That will continue."
That met with approval from Mr. Dougherty, who said "bringing in another automotive account would go a long way" to improving the long-term outlook for True North.
As valuable as replacing the Chrysler Group would be, Mr. Russell said he considered "the most important thing for True North right now" to be the economic outlook for the United States in 2001.
That's because of all the large agency companies, True North is "the most U.S.-oriented" in terms of revenue and billings, he added, so it is especially sensitive to "what the U.S. economy will do in the next six to nine months."
That was on Mr. Smith's mind, too.
"Maybe Uncle Alan will cut the rate again," he said, laughing, referring to Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, which cut interest rates on Wednesday.
About 500 employees of FCB worked on Chrysler assignments in Southfield, Mich., and regional offices. More than 200 have been hired by PentaMark Worldwide in Troy, Mich., a unit formed by the BBDO Worldwide division of Omnicom to handle the consolidated Chrysler Group account. They include Mike Vogel, president and chief executive at FCB Detroit, who becomes chairman and chief executive at PentaMark Worldwide, and Bill Morden, group vice president and chief creative officer at FCB Detroit, who will take a post to be determined at PentaMark Worldwide.
After subtracting the employees hired by PentaMark Worldwide and those who have left FCB Detroit on their own, "we're looking in the range of 150 employees" to be cut, said Kathryn Woods, a True North spokeswoman in New York. She reiterated that True North management remained "comfortable" with analysts' forecasts of earnings per share for 2001. The average estimate is $2.14, according to First Call.
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, True North closed at $41.50, down 44 cents, and Omnicom closed at $89.06, up $2.81. The strong performance by Omnicom may have also been related to the interest rate cut and an agreement by Omnicom to sell its 29 percent stake in Headhunter.net, an Internet recruiting company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (72%); SEVERANCE PAY (71%); EXECUTIVES (62%) AUTOMOBILES; ADVERTISING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (98%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); DAIMLER AG (86%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: TRUE NORTH COMMUNICATIONS; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG; OMNICOM GROUP 

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (98%); IPG (NYSE) (92%); DAI (FRA) (86%); DAI (BIT) (86%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); UNIA (AMS) (55%); UNA (BIT) (55%); UNA (AMS) (55%); UN (NYSE) (55%); ULVR (LSE) (55%); UL (NYSE) (55%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%); AL GORE (50%); KEVIN SMITH (50%) ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



77 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO GAINS. The euro surged as investors speculated that economic growth in Europe would outstrip that of the United States even after an interest rate cut. In New York, the euro settled at 94.92 cents, up from 92.85 cents.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since July, 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); INTEREST RATES (86%); TRENDS (85%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



78 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Markets Moderately Lower After the Huge Fed Rally

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Wall Street stepped back yesterday, taking profits from the gains that came after the Federal Reserve's unexpected interest rate cut on Wednesday. Stocks finished moderately lower on very heavy volume after fluctuating throughout the day.
 The Dow Jones industrial average lost 33.34 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at 10,912.41, after rising 299.60, or 2.8 percent, on Wednesday. The Nasdaq composite index fell 49.86 points, or 1.9 percent, to 2,566.83, after posting record one-day point and percentage gains on Wednesday, when it rose 324.83 points, or 14.2 percent. 
 The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 14.22 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,333.34.
Still, trading was heavy, with volume on the New York Stock Exchange surpassing 2.1 billion for the first time.
Volume on the Nasdaq was 2.6 billion.
Some pullback was expected after the Fed's half-point rate cut -- a reduction that was bigger and sooner than expected -- finally gave investors a reason to buy stocks, in particular the discounted technology issues. The market has fallen for months on a litany of bad earnings news, especially from high-technology companies.
"Investors awoke today to realize the reason the Fed lowered rates the way they did yesterday is because the economy is fairly soft," said Charles G. Crane, strategist for Spears, Benzak, Salomon & Farrell in New York. "As exciting as it was to have rates cut, that is not going to prop up profits in the immediate future."
Most analysts agreed with Mr. Crane that Wednesday's euphoric rally cannot be sustained yet.
Investors will still see more signs that the economy is slowing and warnings that first-quarter profits will miss expectations, they said.
The software maker Inktomi tumbled $4.63, to $13.88, after it lowered its first-quarter forecast. The company, which makes network software for delivering World Wide Web content, also said its fourth-quarter earnings and sales fell short because customers canceled orders.
But some technology companies built on Wednesday's sharp gains. Hewlett-Packard gained 56 cents, to $34.63, and Microsoft advanced 50 cents, to $48.44.
Given the lower prices in the battered technology sector, one analyst said he had expected investors to do more buying yesterday.
"If there is one surprise, it's that tech stocks aren't up more than they are," said Dick Dickson, technical analyst for Scott & Stringfellow in Richmond. "You have a back and forth between those who are bottom fishing and the get-me-out-even crowd."
Although technology issues fell, Mr. Dickson pointed out that they did not cause the bulk of the loss in the S.& P. 500. Rather, a drop in the safer blue chips undercut the S.& P. 500, which is considered one of the best indicators of the entire market.
American International Group was the biggest S.& P. loser, Mr. Dickson said. It fell $6.94, to $89. 
Drug issues also hurt the index, with Pfizer losing $1.75, to $41.81, and Merck dropping $4.13, to $85.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Rebound
 (By Reuters) -- Treasury prices bounced back yesterday as struggling stocks and the widespread belief that the economy would probably slow further fueled hopes that Wednesday's interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve will not be the last.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 31/32, to a price of 105 13/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 5.03 percent from 5.16 percent on Wednesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 28/32, to 111 27/32. The bond's yield declined to 5.44 percent from 5.49 percent on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields"Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. Graph trackd general obligation bonds and revenue bonds since Sept.(Source: The Bond Buyer) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (85%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (67%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: SPEARS BENZAK SALOMON & FARRELL INC (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



79 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
2-Family Homes to Rise Near Hospital in Queens

BYLINE:  By NADINE BROZAN 

 BODY:
Construction is to begin in the next few weeks on a gated community of 100 two-family houses on land that until recently had been part of the sprawling Creedmoor Psychiatric Center in Queens Village.
 The state's decision to sell part of the institution's land gave the builders a rarity for New York City: enough land to put up a sizable development in an almost-suburban location. The builders had no hesitation about the proximity to the hospital. 
 "We didn't buy Creedmoor," said Leslie A. Lerner, a partner with Michael Dubb in the Beechwood Organization, builders and developers of the project. "We bought eight and a half acres at the corner of Hillside Avenue and Winchester Boulevard." 
Eight and a half highly-sought-after acres, he might have added. Ten other developers submitted bids when the Empire State Development Corporation, the state's economic development and privatization agency, put them up for auction in April.
The Beechwood company, which has built four gated communities in Suffolk County and more than 1,000 two-family houses in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, bid the winning $7 million on the Creedmoor parcel and plans to break ground in the next few weeks.
The land was sold as part of the state's effort to divest itself of property attached to mental hospitals that has become superfluous as the number of people being treated in the hospitals has declined drastically. The state sold 32 acres on the Creedmoor grounds to the New York City School Construction Authority, which will build three schools to accommodate 3,000 kindergarten through high school students. There are no plans to sell the remaining 174 acres. 
The site at which the Beechwood Organization will put up what it has named Country Pointe at Alley Pond was one of the few large tracts of land to come on the market in Queens in recent years. Sitting near the border of Nassau County, it is considered a prime location.
It is also one of the few tracts of land in Queens to lend itself to the creation of an entirely new community. "If we could find nice big pieces, we could do more of them," said Leo D. Fakler, the architect who designed the project. "To put in a gated community, you need 40 houses. And unless you can get one large piece where you can create your own streets, it is difficult to put in any sort of gated community." Financing for the project is being provided by the Roslyn Savings Bank.
Asked why he had chosen to use the land for attached houses that incorporate rental apartments rather than freestanding single-family homes, Mr. Lerner said that attached two-family homes "are the predominant housing type for middle-income people in the city of New York, other than Manhattan. They are so widespread because they are the most affordable type of new housing. The tenants pay rent that can add up to almost all the mortgage payments."
Though the homes are designed for the moderate-income market, they will have an aura of exclusivity cast by the guardhouse, which will be staffed around the clock. 
"We decided that in this fine northeast Queens location, we wanted our theme to be luxury rather than affordability," Mr. Lerner said. "We're going the extra mile to make it a high-end community."
The plans were redrawn once at the request of Claire Shulman, the Queens borough president. "She wanted less of a cityscape and thought the row-attached look was monotonous," Mr. Fakler said. "We wanted to be good neighbors, so we redid it." 
So far, Mr. Lerner's instincts seem on target. Drawn only by few small signs hung at the site, more than 250 people have put their names on a waiting lists for the houses, whose starting prices will range from $359,000 to $449,000, depending on the size and location of the lot, among other factors. 
Mr. Lerner said he expected the rental apartments to be priced at $900 to $1,000 a month for the one-bedroom models and $1,200 to $1,300 for the two-bedrooms.
In addition, he said, the homeowners will be eligible for tax breaks under the city's 421b program for new single-family and two-family houses built anywhere in the city but Midtown Manhattan. For the first two years, residents pay taxes based only on the value of the vacant land, with increments added on for the next six years. The first buyers are expected to move in after Thanksgiving this year, with the last taking up residence by June 2002.
There will be two basic models at Country Pointe at Alley Pond, with the exteriors in various combinations of brick and siding. One will have a one-bedroom rental apartment and a garage; the other will have a two-bedroom apartment but no garage. (Buyers of those are to receive two designated parking spots.) Both designs will measure 2,270 square feet. 
All the owners' apartments are to be on the second floor. They will include cathedral ceilings, living rooms, separate dining rooms, three bedrooms, two bathrooms, an eat-in kitchen with dishwasher and stove, and full unfinished basements. A private oval road in a brick pattern will be installed, and there will be a gazebo and benches. 
"People have been calling and saying, 'We're waiting for you,' " said Maria Camporeale, president of Frontier Group Properties, which is to open an on-site sales office today. "We think our typical buyer will be someone who wants a suburban lifestyle. Now they can get it in one of the boroughs -- and get the city tax abatement too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An artist's rendering of the development that the Beechwood Organization plans for Queens Village. (Howard Associates) Map of New York highlighting Queens Village: Country Pointe at Alley Pond will have 100 houses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (79%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); SUBURBS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%) HOUSING 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%); ROSLYN SAVINGS BANK (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BEECHWOOD ORGN; CREEDMOOR PSYCHIATRIC CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: BROZAN, NADINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



80 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1469 words

PERSON: Millicent Carey McIntosh 

HEADLINE: Millicent McIntosh, 102, Dies; Taught Barnard Women to Balance Career and Family 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Millicent Carey McIntosh, whose stewardship of the Brearley School and then Barnard College made her a national role model for generations of young women who wanted to combine career and family, died on Wednesday at her home in Tyringham, Mass. She was 102.
 An outspoken feminist in the 1940's and 50's before feminism became popular, Mrs. McIntosh was the first married woman to head one of the seven top women's colleges known as the Seven Sisters and became a national icon. 
 "She was a president who was ahead of her time," Judith Shapiro, Barnard's president, said at a gathering in 1998 at the McIntosh Student Center to mark Mrs. McIntosh's centennial birthday. She said Mrs. McIntosh, a campus legend, was a pioneer in exploring "the struggle of both women and men to find their true roles in a changing world." 
Leora Hanser, Barnard student government president at the time of the celebration, said Mrs. McIntosh "came from a different era, but the work and family issue is really very important, and a lot of Barnard students struggle with this today." 
In her long career, Mrs. McIntosh spoke and lectured widely, spreading ideas about women, education and child-rearing that would become popular 20 or 30 years later. 
"Having both a job and a family broadens one's perspective, which in turn makes a great contribution to a happy home life," she told the American Association of University Women in 1950. 
She called for child care to be elevated to a dignified profession so working mothers could leave children in capable hands. And she attacked the conditioning that led young girls to feel they must subordinate their own interests when they were with boys, or to use the "foolish technique" of pretending they were stupid to be popular. 
For anyone doubting that it could be done, Mrs. McIntosh was also the ultimate role model as she juggled marriage, five children (including twins) and her own career. Newsweek magazine viewed that as so remarkable that it put her on its cover in 1951.
But Mrs. McIntosh was less didactic than some later feminists. Even as she urged young women to participate in politics and community service and careers, she warned them that combining career and family meant pushing out nearly everything else. And she portrayed family life as a cornerstone of society and democracy, adding that in the face of conflict, family must take precedence.
"You must be prepared to sacrifice many of your social contacts until your family is full grown," she said, "and must always remember that your home comes before all else."
She also respected the idea that happiness could come in many ways. Personal fulfillment "may or may not lie in a career," she told The New York Herald Tribune in 1946. "What is important is for each individual to order her life so that she becomes a happy, creative person."
Her approach to life was rooted in common sense and a lack of pretense, physically and intellectually. A small, trim woman, she often wore plain suits without decoration. As a college president, she swept her own vestibule and weeded her own garden. And when she was honored after 10 years as chief of Barnard, she agreed on the condition that there be no speeches, no gifts and no flowers. 
She also disliked honorifics. She preferred "Mrs." to Dean and was often referred to as "Mrs. Mac." When Barnard officials referred to her in news releases as "Dr.," she chided them, saying, "There is only one doctor in our family," referring to her husband, Dr. Rustin McIntosh, a pediatrician who taught at the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons. 
Mrs. McIntosh saw education in its broadest sense, from conjugating irregular Greek verbs to sex education, as the way to prepare young women for the complicated balancing act she was urging on them. She believed that the education of young women for motherhood was society's "most important task."
At a time when few women were represented in the boardrooms of major American corporations, Mrs. McIntosh was a director of several companies, schools, foundations and civic groups. 
After her retirement in 1962, she and her husband moved to their farm in Tyringham, Mass. Her husband died in 1986. Mrs. McIntosh is survived by a daughter, Susan Lloyd of Tinmouth, Vt.; 4 sons, James, of Ann Arbor, Mich., R. Carey, of Tyringham, Kenneth of West Newton, Mass., and J. Richard, of Boulder, Colo.; 10 grandchildren; and 8 great-grandchildren.
Millicent Carey McIntosh was born on Nov. 30, 1898, in Baltimore, the daughter of Anthony Morris Carey, who ran a machinery supply business, and the former Margaret Cheston Thomas, both active Quakers. She had five brothers and sisters, and all were taught to mend and darn and market and cook. 
Her feminist notions were shaped by strong role models in her family. Her mother fought for women's suffrage, racial equality and prison reform. Her aunt, M. Carey Thomas, was a pioneer in women's education, a founder of the Bryn Mawr School (a girls' school in Baltimore) and president of Bryn Mawr College.
At Bryn Mawr, young Millicent played water polo and basketball and majored in Greek and English, graduating magna cum laude. She organized clubs for factory workers before accepting her aunt's offer of a year of study abroad. 
After studying economics at Cambridge and English at Johns Hopkins University (where she did her doctoral thesis on 14th-century English mystery dramas), Mrs. McIntosh became an instructor at Bryn Mawr College. But she quickly was appointed dean of freshmen and then acting dean of the college.
She left Bryn Mawr to became headmistress at the Brearley School, the private girls school in Manhattan, from 1930 to 1947, and converted it from a half-day format to a full day. When she arrived, she asked her students to help plan the "ideal school" with the fewest possible rules. She worked without a desk because she felt that a desk intimated students. She introduced aptitude tests and remedial instruction and instituted a sex education course for sixth graders, which she taught. 
In 1932, after she married Dr. McIntosh, her aunt discouraged her retirement, telling her, "You can have your babies in August." At Brearley, she had five children. (She took to wearing academic robes to cover pregnancies.) 
She was a hands-on manager, both at school and at home. She left detailed instructions for her household: menus, shopping lists, activities for the children. And every morning, she called Brearley to specify a hymn for morning assembly.
In late 1946, before Barnard had its own president (she was given the title in 1952), Mrs. McIntosh was chosen from more than 60 candidates to succeed Virginia Gildersleeve as Barnard's dean. It was a life that left few free minutes, but Mrs. McIntosh grabbed every one. She signed correspondence during intermissions at concerts and took her secretary with her to the beauty parlor so she could give dictation.
An administrator who valued good teaching, Mrs. McIntosh was dismayed that teachers were paid less than secretaries and dedicated some of Barnard's endowment for faculty salaries. 
She also valued merit, and directed another part of the Barnard endowment to scholarships to open Barnard's doors to "still more girls of superior talent regardless of their ability to pay."
As she balanced career and home, Mrs. McIntosh acknowledged both her husband's support and good household help (which at one point included a governess, a cook and two daily helpers). She also respected the individuality of her children, keeping each in a separate school until one year, after attending five separate Christmas pageants, she said, "I thought if I heard one more 'Silent Night' I would break down." Their schooling was consolidated.
At Barnard, she continued to teach: English and modern living, a required class that sought to help students think through their lives. She also presided over a $10 million fund-raising campaign. 
John D. Rockefeller Jr., who rarely contributed to development funds, agreed to give Barnard $1 million, he told Mrs. McIntosh, "because of my confidence in the exceptional vision and leadership you are bringing to the college." 
Even after she retired from Barnard, the trustees continued to consult her. In 1971, when men's and women's colleges everywhere were going coeducational and Barnard was facing pressure to merge into Columbia, Barnard's chairwoman, Eleanor Elliott, turned to Mrs. McIntosh, who suggested that the trustees try to answer three questions: Would a merger produce better education for Barnard and Columbia? Would relations between Barnard women and Columbia men be improved? And would a merger create economies for both colleges? 
"Mrs. Mac's questions helped organize our thinking simply and calmly," Mrs. Elliott said in an interview, "and of course, we felt stronger."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1998, Millicent Carey McIntosh, nearing 100, was honored at Barnard College. She sat beneath her portrait in the student center named for her. (Jack Manning/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WOMEN (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: NEWSWEEK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY WOMEN (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

MCINTOSH, MILLICENT CAREY; ARENSON, KAREN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



81 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: The Yugo, Wartime Survivor, Faces Open Market 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: KRAGUJEVAC, Serbia 

 BODY:
After surviving the breakup of Yugoslavia, 10 years of international sanctions and two NATO bombings, the Zastava company is still making the cheap, boxy Yugo in six colors, including Hollywood pink and Hawaii yellow. But the new era of democracy and the open market may prove fatal to the oldest industrial enterprise in the Balkans.
 The general director of Zastava, Miljko Eric, is putting his hopes on the German connections of Serbia's prime minister-designate, Zoran Djindjic, who paid a visit recently and promised to talk to Volkswagen. 
 The Yugo and its more upmarket model, the incongruously named Florida Business, will never survive a modern market, conceded Mr. Eric, a thin, lugubrious man. If Zastava has a future, he said, "it's making a global brand," putting together cars for a bigger company like Peugeot or Volkswagen. 
Volkswagen has shown little interest before, Mr. Eric said with a sigh. Even moving along the newly renovated assembly line, the Yugo looks old before it has been finished.
"What happens to Zastava matters for Kragujevac," said Vesna Pajevic, who heads the City Social Welfare Department. A city of nearly 200,000 people in the center of Serbia, 90 miles south of Belgrade, Kragujevac has up to 60 percent unemployment and at least 22,000 refugees, most of them from Kosovo.
In 1990, the Zastava group of 47 companies employed 56,000 people. It still has 31,000 on the books, including 11,000 at the car factory. But at least half the 31,000 are on "paid leave," receiving $7 a month and living on the gray economy. They will never work again for Zastava, Mr. Eric conceded, but he is trying to save the jobs of the others.
Since automobile production resumed a year ago, 4,500 people work at the car factory. In 1989, Zastava produced 180,000 vehicles and exported to 70 countries. In 2000, after the bombing and its other travails, Zastava produced 13,000 cars and 700 trucks. In 2001, Zastava plans to make 28,000 cars and 1,400 trucks.
"But how much we can succeed in producing will mostly depend on the new government, the conditions they create and access to foreign capital," Mr. Eric said, waving a copy of his business plan.
What happens to Zastava matters to Serbia. More than 220 companies are tied to Zastava in some way and employ an additional 65,000 workers. That is why the old government of Slobodan Milosevic spent $80 million to help Zastava rebuild after the bombings on April 9 and 12, 1999.
Zastava was founded in 1853 to make cannons. A century later, it began making cars. When it was bombed, the sole weapon that the company produced was high-priced hunting rifles, Mr. Eric and others said. 
A quarter of the buildings were destroyed, including the computer center, the forging machinery and the paint shop, as well as the plant that provides heat to the factory and to the city, too. More than 645,000 square feet of glass had to be replaced. Oddly, the building that makes rifles was not hit. And although NATO spokesmen talked of the military value of the plant and whispered of tank-engine repair, nothing was ever proven.
"After the bombing, we were brought back to yet another beginning," said Snezana Andjelkovic, a Zastava manager.
Mr. Milosevic imposed a trusted aide, Milan Beko, as Zastava chairman, and at least some reconstruction money was laundered and went to finance the political parties of Mr. Milosevic; his wife, Mirjana Markovic; and their allies. After Mr. Milosevic resigned on Oct. 6, Mr. Beko quit.
Mr. Eric said that the money the company received from the Milosevic treasury was carefully budgeted and accounted for and that there was no political pressure put on him on how to spend it.
Zastava is still an honored name in Serbia, and if it goes down in the new climate it will be hard for the new democratic government to argue to Serbs about the benefits of change.
In an interview with a magazine, NIN, after he had visited Zastava, Mr. Djindjic said Zastava was part of his plans for economic recovery. 
"The story of an economy based on small- and medium-size companies sounds nice, but without several industrial giants there is no competitive economy," Mr. Djindjic said. "There must be five or six strongholds. Zastava is one." 
He took it as a personal obligation, he said, to try to bring Volkswagen to Kragujevac to see if it could take a technologically backward East European car and transform it into something new and competitive, as it did with the Czech Skoda.
More likely, Mr. Eric acknowledged, any company that forms a partnership with Zastava will simply make its own cars. In the meantime, "we have to keep the factory working," he said.
"No one buys an empty, cold house," Mr. Eric said. "We have to keep a fire in the kitchen and the oven warm."
Zastava still has a market in this country, where the average monthly salary is $40. A new Yugo can be had for less than $3,000, which will be even more attractive as the new world of legality makes the market in used -- i.e., stolen -- cars more regular and, thus, more expensive.
With international sanctions now lifted, Zastava, with its factory and low wages, can once again make components for other manufacturers. It used to make generators for Fiats and Ladas. And it will try to revive its lagging cooperation with Iveco to make more trucks. Mr. Eric is particularly proud of the new forging shop, rebuilt since the bombing.
"We have to expect that it will be better," he said. "We've had enough of worse. It will be nice if life just can become normal. While we breathe, we hope. Otherwise, we'd be working against ourselves."
An office worker in her 30's was both more blunt and more ashamed. "Humiliation is in our souls at Zastava," she said. "Will anyone bring dignity back to us? We almost don't think about money anymore, but just the chance to live and work with some dignity."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Inspection on the Yugo assembly line, above, in Kragujevac. The Zastava factory, left, after the first of two NATO bombings in April 1999. The government spent $80 million to rebuild the plant, and production resumed a year ago. (Reuters); (Wade Goddard for The New York Times) Map of Yugoslavia shows the location of Kragujevac.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS PLANS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (50%) AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%) ZASTAVA COMPANIES 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) HAWAII, USA (92%) SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (79%) SERBIA; KRAGUJEVAC (SERBIA)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



82 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: To Dredge or Not to Dredge? PCB Study Is Neutral 

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
A long-awaited study released yesterday by the National Academy of Sciences about PCB pollution and the various strategies for cleaning it up does not endorse a plan by the federal Environmental Protection Agency to dredge the Hudson River.
 But neither does it reject the proposal. 
 The study's summary -- the full text will not be issued for several months -- goes out of its way to say that it will provide no final answers to a question that has become a high-stakes issue among competing political, economic and environmental interests in New York: what is to be done with the river? 
"Many readers expect this report to recommend remediation options," the report says. "However, the committee strongly believes that making such recommendations is not appropriate" because the study focused on how to make cleanup decisions in general rather than on any specific case.
But in the politicized debate over the river that has erupted since the E.P.A. announced its nearly half-billion-dollar dredging plan in December, even playing the subject down the middle could give both sides new ammunition.
The study flatly states, for example, that PCB's are a dangerous and potent long-term poison in the environment. That rejects arguments by General Electric, which discharged the PCB's into river from its factories for 30 years until the mid-1970's, and has contended ever since that the danger is exaggerated.
But the study also says that dredging and other so-called active remediation plans are potentially dangerous, too, because no method or technology can eliminate the possibility that some dredged-up pollution could leak back into the water. 
That part of the study raises questions about the E.P.A.'s position: that advances in dredging have all but eliminated the risk that stirred up PCB's could recontaminate the river or nearby soil where the dredging is proposed to take place.
PCB's, or polychlorinated biphenyls, were used for decades in the manufacture of electrical conductors and other insulating products, but the chemicals -- in an oily liquid form that tended to leak through cracks in old cement factory floors -- were also often hard to contain. PCB's were later linked to cancer in humans and liver damage and other problems in wildlife, and were banned in 1977.
But by then G.E. had spilled or dumped an estimated 1.1 million pounds or more of PCB's into the river about 40 miles north of Albany.
The company has spent millions of dollars on its own scientific studies of the river, and has argued that the PCB's are being naturally buried by river silt and should be left where they lie. 
A spokesman for the E.P.A., Dr. Peter Grevatt, said he believed that the science academy's careful language about how cleanup decisions should be made -- especially that each polluted site is unique and that generalizations are hazardous -- provided a vindication of what he said was the agency's careful decision-making process on the Hudson.
"We feel like it provides a mandate for the approach we have taken," said Dr. Grevatt, the senior science adviser for the agency's waste cleanup program.
A spokesman for General Electric, Stephen D. Ramsey, said he thought the report vindicated G.E.'s position just as thoroughly.
"I would hope that this would cause a fresh breath of common sense and logic to be infused into this process," Mr. Ramsey said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); CHLORINE (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); RIVERS (72%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (67%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (65%); CEMENT MFG (65%); LIVER DISEASE (60%) WATER POLLUTION; POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (91%) GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%) HUDSON RIVER

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



83 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Companies Announced 133,000 Job Cuts Last Month, Triple the Number in November 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
American companies announced 133,713 job cuts in December, more than triple the number in November, a survey showed today.
 It was the highest number of job cut announcements recorded since the survey -- conducted by the outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas -- began in 1993, and it was only the fourth time that the number of job cuts totaled more than 100,000 in one month. 
 In another sign of weakness in the labor market, the number of Americans filing for new unemployment benefits climbed to its highest level in two and a half years last week, the Labor Department said. 
The reports, which added detail to an already worrisome economic picture, were issued less than 24 hours after Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and his colleagues unexpectedly cut the interest rate on overnight loans between banks by half a percentage point to bolster the economy.
Today's reports could increase expectations for a weak reading on December employment, which will be released on Friday morning. Economists are projecting a slim rise of 102,000 in new jobs to be reported for last month, up from a gain of 94,000 in November.
The monthly unemployment report garners close attention from the Fed to measure labor-market conditions throughout the economy. The unemployment rate is forecast to inch up to 4.1 percent in December from 4 percent the previous month.
The Labor Department said new claims for unemployment benefits rose for the third consecutive week, to 375,000 in the week ended Dec. 30 from an upwardly revised 359,000 during the previous week.
Claims were at their highest level since the beginning of July 1998, when a strike at General Motors sent workers to unemployment offices.
The closely watched four-week moving average, which irons out week-to-week volatility, rose to 352,250 in the week ended Dec. 30 from 347,000 in the week ended Dec. 23. This was its highest since July 1998.
In a third report released today, the Commerce Department said that orders for new goods from factories rebounded more strongly than estimated in November, led by big gains in orders for aircraft, electrical equipment and costly durable goods.
Factory orders rose 1.7 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $377.6 billion in November after falling 4 percent in October, the department said. The November increase was the biggest gain since a 2 percent rise in August and topped analysts' estimates for a 1.3 percent rise.
But economists zeroed in on the buildup in inventories. Manufacturers' inventories rose 0.5 percent in November after posting a 0.7 percent gain in October.
Analysts said the inventory number showed that companies' stockpiles had continued to expand as the economy -- and consumer demand -- slowed.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Out of Work"Companies announced last month that they would lay off 133,713 employees, the most for any month in the last eight years. Graph tracks monthly lay offs since 1999. LAYOFFS BY INDUSTRY FOR DECEMBER 2000Retail -- 29.7%Automotive -- 19.2Consumer Products -- 8.9Telecommunication -- 7.8E-commerce/Internet -- 7.0Other -- 27.5 (Source: Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); INVENTORIES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (85%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); NEW ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (66%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS; LABOR DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



84 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: A Glum Season for Retailers 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
After hoping to the 11th hour that tardy and postseason shoppers would give them a final lift, the nation's merchants released the tally of December sales yesterday and had to admit that they had a spectacularly unmerry holiday season.
 Consumers snapped up scooters and calf-hugging leather boots, but otherwise were impervious to everything from diamonds to heavily promoted seamless satin bras -- even at deeply discounted prices. Retail sales at stores open at least a year, a much-watched measure of industry health, rose one-tenth of 1 percent in the five weeks that ended the last week of December, compared with the same period in 1999, according to the Goldman Sachs Index of Retail Sales. 
 That results were the most anemic since March of 1995, when sales declined 0.1 percent compared with the month a year earlier. It was the worst December growth since Goldman began keeping track in 1987. 
Having grown fat on the boom of recent years, retailers now face some tough choices as they are forced to adjust to much more meager sales gains. For the last two holiday seasons, sales grew strongly -- 6.2 percent in 1999 after a 5.5 percent gain in 1998.
"The consumer spending binge of 1998 and 1999 has finally decelerated," said George Strachan, a retail analyst with Goldman.
If there was any good news in the post-mortems it was that many industry watchers seemed to think that the December numbers represented something close to the nadir for retailers. "We've got a consumer under pressure here," Mr. Strachan said. "But based on our leading indicators, we think we are bottoming out."
Indeed, sagging consumer interest hardly set off the wholesale selling of retail stocks that might have been expected. The Lehman Brothers index of 43 major retailers was up 6.3 percent on the day, a result of gains at Kohl's, Target, Federated and May among others. With interest rates expected to fall further after the Federal Reserve's move on Wednesday, investors appear to believe that retailers have seen the worst and that consumer spending will rebound by late spring or early summer.
But that provided little solace for last month. Almost since the week after Thanksgiving, it has been clear that shoppers are severely tightening the purse strings and being more prudent with credit cards. The weight of a series of interest rate increases, sharply rising fuel prices and a plunging stock market combined to keep spending flat.
The swiftness of the turn in consumer sentiment caught even the most savvy of the nation's merchants off-guard just as they were going into their most critical season. "The entire economy just hit a wall," said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist with Merrill Lynch. "It was very dramatic." 
The list of retailers that came limping out of this holiday included the nation's mightiest and healthiest companies. Wal-Mart Stores, the juggernaut of the industry, entered the season predicting sales growth of 3 percent; it emerged with growth of 0.3 percent instead. Sales at the Target Corporation, parent of the stylish discounter, slipped 0.1 percent, well below estimated growth of at least 2 percent. The American arm of Tiffany, the luxury jeweler, had expected holiday sales to rise by as much as 5 percent; its sales fell 3 percent.
The Limited Inc., which in midfall had foreseen sales gains of 5 percent, instead emerged with no growth, largely a result of a sudden loss of infatuation with products from Victoria's Secret Stores and Bath and Body Works. Both chains are owned by Intimate Brands, of which the Limited owns 84 percent. Intimate Brands told analysts that it now expected profits for the quarter to come in at 44 to 48 cents a share, down from 55 cents. The Limited cut its profit estimate to 57 cents a share from an earlier estimate of 66 cents.
The lackluster holiday season has already caused casualties among the sector's weaker companies. Last week, two long-struggling chains, Montgomery Ward and Bradlees, both announced that they were closing. Ward cited poor sales as the final straw. And yesterday Sears, Roebuck & Company said that it would close 89 "underperforming stores" and lay off 2,400 employees. The company said that only four of those stores would be full-line Sears stores and that the closings had been contemplated well before December.
The results posted yesterday were even worse than widely published data last week. On Dec. 26, the International Council of Shopping Centers reported that sales at specialty stores in malls rose 2.2 percent from Thanksgiving through Christmas. Those numbers did not include the discounters, whose poorer performance was reflected in the lower numbers reported yesterday.
But now that retailers have fully absorbed the pain of the shopping season, investors are looking forward to lower interest rates to contribute to a better spending climate later this year.
"Last year you had the Fed working against you and this year they are working for you," said an unusually buoyant Richard L. Church, a retail stock analyst with Salomon Smith Barney.
The other factor that kept the bottom from falling out of most retail stocks was the fact that many of the nation's biggest chains had foreseen the trouble by midmonth and had warned that their profits would be lower than originally estimated. Though a dozen retailers suggested yesterday that earnings would be still lower than their revised targets, most said they would miss the adjusted marks by pennies or nickels per share instead of dimes or quarters. 
"What came in, in terms of news, had pretty much been factored into expectations already," said Brian James, a retail analyst with Loomis, Sayles & Company, which manages several portfolios with retail stocks. "We've clearly seen the bottom in the stocks. I don't think anything in the next coming months can be worse than Christmas."
Despite tentative optimism among Wall Street investors, there were many that argued that retailers were hardly out of the woods. Forget about the Fed, said Marie Menendez, vice president and senior credit officer at Moody's Investors Service -- consumers are shopped out. "This expansion has gone on for nine years, and that is long enough that their houses have been remodeled, their closets are full, there is a new car in the garage and there is no need to buy more," she said.
Moreover, retailers as a group have been aggressively expanding their floor space. Last year, Gap Inc. added 27 percent more floor space; Home Depot, 23 percent; Wal-Mart, 8 percent; and Target, 7 percent. With consumers more cautious, this greatly increased competitiveness in the sector has already left many speculating on who will survive a new round of consolidations and closings.
"Anyone who used these boom times to grow square footage but did not produce comparable productivity gains will have difficult times in the months ahead," Ms. Menendez predicted. "Nordstrom, Saks, and Dillard's are among those under review for downgrade" of their debt rating, she said. "They have not produced profitability in line with expectations during this favorable economic period."
Unlike brick-and-mortar merchants, Internet stores did not widely report sales yesterday. One exception was Toys "R" Us, which said sales tripled at its electronic arm, compared with the last holiday season. Amazon.com, the sector's bellwether, will not report concrete sales numbers until the end of the month, but analysts expect the company to meet its target of $1 billion for the fourth quarter.
Although the virtual retailers have yet to report their results, several groups have published estimates that are expected to mirror the disappointment of traditional merchants.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Big discounts, lots of leftovers. That was the story at Macy's in Manhattan and at retailers across the country in December. (Chris Hondros/Newsmakers) Chart: "Retail Sales in December"Year-to-year changes in the Goldman, Sachs retail composite index, based on monthly sales at stores open at least a year.Graph tracks changes since Sept., 1999. Below are results for the five weeks ended Dec. 30, compared with the corresponding period last year, except as noted. Companies are listed in order of 1999 sales. COMPANY: Wal-Mart* (Five weeks to Dec. 29)SAME-STORE: Change -- +0.3OVERALL: Sales -- $19.57 billionOVERALL: Change -- +6.6 COMPANY: Kmart (Five weeks to Dec. 27)SAME-STORE: Change -- +0.7OVERALL: Sales -- 6.06 billionOVERALL: Change -- -1.4 COMPANY: TargetSAME-STORE: Change -- -0.1OVERALL: Sales -- 6.09 billionOVERALL: Change -- +5.4 COMPANY: Sears, RoebuckSAME-STORE: Change -- -1.1OVERALL: Sales -- 4.42 billionOVERALL: Change -- -0.1 COMPANY: Federated Department StoresSAME-STORE: Change -- +1.2OVERALL: Sales -- 3.29 billionOVERALL: Change -- -0.6 COMPANY: J. C. PenneySAME-STORE: Change -- -1.6OVERALL: Sales -- 2.56 billionOVERALL: Change -- -2.7 COMPANY: May Department StoresSAME-STORE: Change -- +1.0OVERALL: Sales -- 2.86 billionOVERALL: Change -- +3.8 COMPANY: GapSAME-STORE: Change -- -6.0OVERALL: Sales -- 2.30 billionOVERALL: Change -- +14.0 COMPANY: Limited+SAME-STORE: Change -- Unch.OVERALL: Sales -- 1.89 billionOVERALL: Change -- +2.0 COMPANY: TJXSAME-STORE: Change -- +1.0OVERALL: Sales -- 1.33 billionOVERALL: Change -- +8.0 COMPANY: TalbotsSAME-STORE: Change -- +12.9OVERALL: Sales -- 219 millionOVERALL: Change -- +17.0 COMPANY: Ann TaylorSAME-STORE: Change -- -0.3OVERALL: Sales -- 155 millionOVERALL: Change -- +14.4 *Figures exclude McLane's.+Figures exclude Galyan's and Limited TOO.(Source: Goldman, Sachs, based on company reports.)(pg. C2) Graphs: "Looking Past A Weak Christmas"Retailers failed to get a last-minute surge in sales to salvage their hopes for the holiday shopping season. But investors - counting on lower interest rates to revive consumer spending - are already looking forward to better times, particularly for the leading toy and electronics merchants. Sales figures are for the five weeks ended the last week in December, compared with a year earlier. Graphs track share prices of Wal-Mart, The Gap, Toys 'R' Us and Best Buy since Nov.(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Goldman Sachs & Company)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); RETAIL SALES (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); THANKSGIVING (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CHRISTMAS; SALES; GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

PERSON: KAUFMAN, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



85 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Joins California in Bid To Lift State Power Squeeze 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Alarmed by the rapidly deteriorating financial condition of California's power utilities, top state and federal officials took urgent steps today to solve the state's energy crisis, including an emergency 90-day increase in the rates charged consumers and plans for senior state and federal officials to meet at the White House on Tuesday.
 Although the utilities declared the rate increase, of roughly 10 percent, insufficient to keep them from sliding toward bankruptcy, they expressed some relief that officials in the state and in Washington were beginning a search for a more comprehensive solution. 
 The state's Public Utilities Commission, which approved the increase today, also said it would not adopt some proposed accounting rules that the power companies had maintained would worsen their financial condition. In addition, the commission said it would explore a proposal for using state-backed bonds to help the utilities finance the losses being inflicted by soaring wholesale electricity prices. 
The intervention by the state suggested to many that its experiment in energy deregulation had failed. 
"We are voting the epitaph for deregulation in California today," said one commissioner, Carl Wood. "Deregulation is dead."
The utilities have been squeezed because under that deregulation, they must pay market rates while maintaining, until March 2002, caps on the rates they charge consumers. Wholesale prices have surged far above consumer rates in the last six months, leaving the utilities with more than $11 billion in losses and no end in sight.
Gov. Gray Davis said the emergency consumer rate increase voted today "was unfortunately necessary," and added later, "Nobody in their right mind wants to see the utilities bankrupt."
The White House meeting could prove crucial. The utilities and Governor Davis have sought to have the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission apply caps on the wholesale price of electricity, but it has refused. As a result, the utilities and the state have sued the federal agency, which was subjected to scathing criticism by the Public Utilities Commission today.
The utilities commission said the rocketing wholesale prices, a result of growing demand in the state and tight supplies, had been allowed to get even more out of hand because the federal agency lifted some price caps last month. The commission said the agency had taken actions "that defy common sense, logic and law."
But in a statement of his own today, the federal agency's chairman, James J. Hoecker, opened the door to compromise, saying he was in favor of a conference "to map out the parameters of a comprehensive solution to the market and financial crises that afflict California." Mr. Hoecker indicated that if the two big California utilities, Southern California Edison and Pacific Gas and Electric, took a variety of steps including cost-cutting, his agency might consider providing some relief.
A senior White House official said the prospect of "a bankruptcy like no other" had prompted the Clinton administration to arrange the emergency meeting that is to be held on Tuesday, even though that will be just 11 days before a new administration takes office. "It may provide mutual cover for people to do things they wouldn't do on their own," the official said, referring to the utilities and federal regulators.
Expected at the meeting are Governor Davis, Mr. Hoecker, Energy Secretary Bill Richardson, Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers and Gene Sperling, director of the National Economic Council.
The Public Utilities Commission made clear that it saw a need to halt the crisis before it cascades out of control. The steep rise in wholesale power prices, it said, has "expanded the crisis to one that involves not only utility solvency but the very liquidity of the system."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters were led yesterday from the San Francisco building where state regulators were voting an emergency increase in electricity rates. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (93%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (88%); WHOLESALERS (88%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); BONDS (72%); ACCOUNTING (69%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BANKRUPTCIES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (58%); PG&E CORP (58%)

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (58%); PCG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%)

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



86 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: In Uganda's Election, One President, 19 Opponents 

BYLINE:  By IAN FISHER 

DATELINE: GULU, Uganda 

 BODY:
Public campaigning is not officially allowed yet, though it was hard to tell: men with crowns of chicken feathers beat drums and bicycle taxi drivers welcomed the candidate with sprigs of eucalyptus. Women danced up the main road, one holding a sign that read, "Leaders come, leaders go."
 No need to name the one they hoped would go: President Yoweri Museveni, the former bush fighter who led Uganda from some of its darkest days and who seemed, until recently, beyond serious challenge. Now, with an election in March, he finds himself facing his most difficult political race, which might seem strange given that Uganda is doing relatively well and Mr. Museveni still commands much respect. 
 But after his 14 years in office, discontent seems to be creeping up on him. Some 19 candidates have lined up to run for his job, including his former doctor, Kiiza Besigye, a onetime colonel who was making a campaign appearance recently in this poor city in northern Uganda.
"He's seen as clearly out of touch with the needs of the people today," Dr. Besigye said in an interview. "And that is why there is an overwhelming demand for change in leadership."
How overwhelming is uncertain, but something is going on. "A few months ago nobody thought that there would be any race to speak of," said one Western diplomat. "All the betting money is that Museveni will wind up at the top of the heap. But now it's looking like it may go into a runoff."
Political analysts and foreign diplomats believe that in a runoff Mr. Museveni could actually lose. In this scenario, if no candidate won the 51 percent needed for victory outright, the election would go to a second round in which opponents of Mr. Museveni would unite to beat him. That seems possible, though unlikely at the moment because the opposition is badly split. 
Hope Kivengeri, Mr. Museveni's spokeswoman, dismissed any suggestion that Mr. Museveni could lose the election. But she said, "This is definitely a tighter race than the last one."
Even she conceded some weariness among supporters of Mr. Museveni after 14 years, but she said he would win because most Ugandans still believe he is fighting for them. Even the number of candidates running against him, she said, is a sign of political and economic progress in the last 14 years.
"Many people have done well," Ms. Kivengeri said. "Of course as people have done well, their expectations have gone up. They want to do even better." Mr. Museveni, 56, is a charismatic figure, though difficult to put in a tidy box. An intellectual and former Marxist, he fought his way to power in 1986, overthrowing in the process Milton Obote, whose regime was responsible for the deaths of at least 200,000 people by 1984, according to a State Department estimate. Uganda had nowhere near recovered from the excesses of Idi Amin, who ruled the country from 1971 to 1979 with an idiosyncratic cruelty. 
But the contradictions are many. Mr. Museveni has brought relative peace -- though there are still sizable rebellions in the west as well as here in Gulu, where he is very unpopular. He attracted foreign investment and the support of rich governments, particularly the American and the British, though many people complain that their lives have not improved fast enough. Mr. Museveni has also lessened tribal tensions, though people complain that in the process he has become authoritarian by continuing to outlaw party politics. Many Ugandans are also upset about corruption in his government (though there has been no suggestion that he himself is involved) and about Uganda's involvement in the war in Congo. 
Only two people ran against Mr. Museveni four years ago, when he held the first presidential election since taking power. Among the many candidates the race has attracted this year are a former defense minister, a professor at Makerere University in Kampala, the country's capital, and a man described by one newspaper as "a Kampala thespian." 
Several of the candidates, experts say, are credible. Dr. Besigye fought beside Mr. Museveni, and is essentially running with many of the same ideals of good government and development but without the baggage of 14 years in power. Dr. Besigye has also come out strongly against Uganda's role in Congo as well as for a return to a multiparty system. He has a plus in his wife: Winnie Byanyima, a member of Parliament who is one of Uganda's smartest and most popular politicians.
Another candidate who appears to be attracting support is Aggrey Awori, a businessman who was a track star at Harvard in the 1960's and is said to be friendly with Vice President Al Gore. Mr. Awori has been running on a sensitive issue in Uganda: that people from Mr. Museveni's region in the southwest have benefited more than those from the east or north. One of Mr. Awori's top advisers, Charles Olupot, used a hunting analogy to make the point. "We are not sharing in the national carcass," he said. "We are outsiders in this saga."
Also running is the former mayor of Kampala, Nasser Ntege Sebaggala, who is popular particularly among unemployed people and the Baganda, Uganda's largest ethnic group. But there are some questions about whether he will be able to pass an education requirement.
The nomination process is expected to narrow the field considerably. Meantime, the major candidates are all touring the nation. Mr. Museveni is a hard-working campaigner and intends to visit all 53 districts in Uganda, his spokeswoman said. He will not find enthusiastic crowds everywhere this year, his opponents say.
"I'm not saying Museveni is a bad man," said Peter Kilama, a bicycle taxi driver who showed up in Gulu to welcome Dr. Besigye. "But we have problems."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Kiiza Besigye, a candidate for the presidency of Uganda, greeting supporters in the north. A runoff is seeming more and more likely. (Tyler Hicks for The New York Times) Map of Uganda shows the location of Gulu: Opposition to President Yoweri Museveni is strong in Gulu.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TRENDS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); ETHICS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN; MUSEVENI, YOWERI K (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UGANDA (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) UGANDA; GREAT BRITAIN; CONGO (FORMERLY ZAIRE)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



87 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Russia to Miss Quarterly Payment on Soviet Debt 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Russia will not make its first-quarter payments this year on the billions of dollars it owes to nations known collectively as the Paris Club, a government spokesman was quoted as saying today.
 But Gennadi Yezhov, a spokesman for Aleksei Kudrin, the finance minister and deputy prime minister, was quoted by the news agency Interfax as saying the decision "does not mean and has nothing to do with a declaration of default." 
 The government Information Department said later that Russia planned to pay all the amount scheduled for this year, the news agency Itar-Tass reported.
Russia owes about $48 billion, run up by the Soviet Union, to the Paris Club, a group of industrialized nations that includes the United States. The debt was defaulted on in the 1991 collapse of the Soviet Union and again in the August 1998 financial crisis when the ruble's value plunged.
But Russia's economy has shown signs of significant growth over the last year, and the reason for the delayed payment was not announced. Mr. Yezhov could not be reached, and the Finance Ministry said no one else could comment.
Russia owes about $3.5 billion in interest payments on the debt this year, and the missed first-quarter payment amounts to about $1.5 billion.
Russia's total foreign debt, including that to the Paris Club, is about $148 billion. The huge amount is an impediment to the nation's development. 
The Russian Parliament passed a balanced budget for 2001, the country's first ever, and some experts speculated that the missed payment reflected unwillingness to tamper with that achievement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TRENDS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: PARIS CLUB (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



88 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
 NEW YORK

ALBANY: ADOPTION RULING -- A state appeals court ruled yesterday that state law permits biological parents to unseal adoption records for "good cause." The decision will allow a Broome County woman, identified in court papers only as Rosemarie TT, to inform the son she gave up for adoption of his genetic predisposition toward certain medical conditions, including alcoholism. A Broome County Family Court judge had ruled that state law allowed only adopted children, not birth parents, to unseal adoption records. But the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court said the lower court's interpretation was too restrictive. Shaila K. Dewan (NYT)

WHITE PLAINS: TOY-GUN SELLERS SUED -- Eliot L. Spitzer, the state attorney general, said yesterday that his office had sued four Westchester County stores that sell toy guns, accusing the stores of violating a state law that says toy weapons must be marked with a prominent orange stripe to avoid being mistaken for real firearms. Investigators said they had bought 28 toy guns without the stripe. The stores face a total of $40,000 in fines. (NYT)

MANHATTAN: POWER GENERATORS DISPUTED -- A dispute over the New York Power Authority's plan to install 10 temporary generators around the city to meet power needs next summer remained unresolved after a City Hall meeting yesterday. The state is going ahead with the plan, said the City Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone, who attended the meeting with Claire Shulman, the Queens borough president. The plan has met strong resistance in Queens, because two of the generators would be along the Long Island City waterfront, and business leaders fear that development will stall. Thomas J. Lueck (NYT)

HUNTINGTON STATION: CRASH SCENE INQUIRY -- Investigators yesterday were looking into reports that gates at a railroad crossing had malfunctioned about 10 minutes before a fatal accident Wednesday night. Two women were killed when they drove around the flashing gates and their car was struck by a Long Island Rail Road train. They were identified as Nasrin Razzak, 20, of East Islip, the driver, and Nidia Irizarry, 19, of Huntington Station. Another passenger, Desiree Bravo, 19, of Huntington Station, remained in critical condition last night at University Hospital at Stony Brook. Andy Newman (NYT)

QUEENS: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM -- A federally funded program for immigrant merchants has been expanded to Corona, home to many of the borough's Hispanic residents. The program focuses on technical assistance and the small-scale financing known as microloans that have been successful in developing countries. The expanded program, announced yesterday, will be administered by the Dominican-Hispanic Congress of Queens and the New York Association for New Americans. Sarah Kershaw (NYT)

BROOKLYN: DEPUTY SCHOOLS CHANCELLOR -- Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy has hired Anthony Shorris, a former city finance commissioner, as the deputy chancellor for management and policy. Until now, the school system has had only two deputy chancellors, one for instruction and one for operations. Mr. Levy said in a statement that Mr. Shorris would serve as the system's chief operating officer. Mr. Shorris is the executive vice president of HealthFirst, a nonprofit health maintenance organization.
Abby Goodnough (NYT)

WARNING OF UNDERCOUNT -- Elected officials in New York, warning of a substantial undercount of New York State in the 2000 census, are asking the incoming Bush administration to supplement the raw count with statistical estimates. In a letter to Don Evans, the nominee for commerce secretary, Senator Charles E. Schumer and Representative Carolyn B. Maloney recommend that the Census Bureau, an arm of the Commerce Department, adjust its figures. Thomas J. Lueck (NYT)

MELVILLE: CANCER REGISTRIES -- Areas with cancer rates that are 50 percent higher than expected should receive the bulk of new federal financing for registries tracking cancer cases, Senator Charles E. Schumer said yesterday. He urged the State Health Department to direct its share of the $12 million allocation to the National Program for Cancer Registries to gather and present information on parts of Brookhaven and eight other Long Island communities, because of their high incidents of cancer. Tina Kelley (NYT)

BRONX: TEEN HELD IN STABBING DEATH -- A Bronx teenager was arrested after he fatally stabbed his mother's common-law husband in the back while the couple were fighting, the authorities said yesterday. A grand jury will determine whether the teenager, Turon Frisbey, 15, should be charged. The stabbing occurred about 8 p.m. Wednesday in the family's apartment at 1051 Teller Avenue in Morrisania, the police said. Mr. Frisbey's mother, Shunta Moss, had been arguing with her common-law husband, Michael Harris, 46, the police said. Elissa Gootman (NYT)

CONNECTICUT

HARTFORD: NOMINEES FOR HIGH COURT -- Gov. John G. Rowland, left, said yesterday that he would nominate Judge Peter T. Zarella of the State Appellate Court for a seat on the State Supreme Court. Judge Zarella, 51, a Republican from West Hartford, would succeed Justice William J. Sullivan, who was nominated as chief justice. Both nominations will go to the General Assembly's Judiciary Committee for a confirmation hearing before votes in the State Senate and the House. Paul Zielbauer (NYT)

TRENTON: WHITMAN ACCEPTS RAISE -- Gov. Christie Whitman will finally accept a $45,000 raise that was approved more than a decade ago but declined by her Democratic predecessor and then by Mrs. Whitman herself. The governor has said she wants to remove the raise as an election issue by accepting it before leaving office. Mrs. Whitman has been nominated as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency in the Bush administration. As of Monday, the governor's annual salary grew to $130,000, and will rise to $175,000 in 2002. Steve Strunsky (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOPTION (92%); ADOPTION LAW (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); APPEALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); GUN CONTROL (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); FAMILY COURTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); TOYS & GAMES (74%); FIREARMS (74%); JUDGES (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); CITIES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (68%); RAIL CROSSINGS (67%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (65%); DEATHS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MICROFINANCE (60%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



89 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Terrific News in Mexico City: Air Is Sometimes Breathable 

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
The atmosphere is infamous here. For decades it has been a danger to the millions inhaling it. But now something new is in the air.
 It seems to be getting fresher -- or at least less foul. This would be quite a change: in 1992, the United Nations called Mexico City's air the world's worst. 
 "That's no longer true," said Dr. Mario J. Molina, a Mexico City native leading the most intensive study of the problem yet undertaken. Dr. Molina, a chemistry professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1995 for showing 20 years earlier that chlorofluorocarbons, then widely used in aerosols, refrigerators and air conditioners, were depleting the ozone layer. 
"There are data that suggest that the air may be improving," said Dr. Molina. Indeed, there has been no smog alert for 15 months. Lead, carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide in the air are down.
Other pollution levels are still often unacceptably high, but on many days, especially weekends, the air is sometimes clear enough to breathe with pleasure -- this in a place where it contributed to the deaths of hundreds of people in one terrible week four years ago.
"You would have expected pollution levels to increase if you look at the increased number of cars, people and economic activity in the past three years," Dr. Molina said.
They have not. While fair winds and cleansing rains may take some credit, so do increasingly stringent environmental rules, which call for cleaner fuels, catalytic converters on cars, emissions tests and rules on industry.
The air has tested the limits of human endurance. The air quality index runs from zero to 500, zero representing the Garden of Eden, and 300 or more representing hell on earth. Below 100 is officially satisfactory, 101 to 200 is unsatisfactory, and anything higher is dangerous -- and a potential threat to life. In the mid-1990's, it exceeded 100 about 9 days out of 10; simply breathing was like smoking two packs of cigarettes a day. Sometimes it went off the charts: once, in 1996, it spiked at 394. There are good days and bad days, and the pollution level still often exceeds 100. But on Wednesday, in the heart of Mexico City, it peaked at 69, with a low of 9. Levels of sulfur dioxode, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide and particulates were all 40 or less. And winter is normally the worst time of year for air pollution.
Mexico City still rates as one of the planet's more toxic places, along with Beijing, New Delhi, Jakarta, Bangkok, Tehran and other mega cities with too many people, too many cars, too many polluting industries and too few coordinated efforts to clear the air.
This is where Dr. Molina and his wife, Dr. Luisa T. Molina, a research scientist at M.I.T., come in. They are leading the Mexico City Case Study, part of a program at M.I.T. for exploring the problems of megacities in the developing world. With close to $2 million from M.I.T., the National Science Foundation and the Mexican government, they have brought together scores of government officials, scientists, engineers, economists and other experts to figure out how to cut the smog.
No mad scientist could think up a better machine for creating air pollution than this capital of nearly 20 million people. It sits in a bowl 7,400 feet above sea level, ringed by mountains, under a tropical sun -- a petri dish for brewing and trapping bad air. The miasma spews from three million cars, buses and trucks, and from thousands of dirty companies and dump sites. They fill the air with toxic chemicals and tiny particles of everything from heavy metals to human waste. 
Mexico's leaders spent most of the 1970's and 1980's ignoring the pollution. The Institutional Revolutionary Party, which until last year had enjoyed a monopoly on power for decades, had little incentive to be accountable to the public, to listen to scientists or to press for changes, especially ones that could thwart economic development.
This attitude filtered down to the public in the form of fatalism, a disbelief that anything but a strong wind could clear the air. Pemex, the national oil company, which produces much of Mexico's gasoline, also spent years "sort of denying the problem," Mario Molina said. "There were statements that there was no pollution problem." 
Not until 1995 did federal health authorities state clearly that the air was unhealthy. That year, the World Bank financed a study suggesting that high ozone levels alone were responsible for as many as 1,000 premature deaths and 35,000 hospitalizations for respiratory diseases each year in Mexico City. Those numbers appeared conservative when, in November 1996, a five-day smog emergency sent 400,000 people to hospitals and contributed to the deaths of 300 or more, according to city officials.
So what has gone right?
The gasoline is cleaner than it was a few years ago. Pemex took the lead out, upgraded its refineries, and since 1996 has quadrupled its gas imports from the United States. That cleaner fuel from the United States accounts for as much as a quarter of the gasoline burned in Mexico today.
New cars have catalytic converters, which reduce carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxide. Some large industries have become cleaner or moved away from Mexico City. A hulking oil refinery within the city limits was closed in the face of political pressure from labor unions.
F. Sherwood Rowland, one of two other scientists who shared the 1995 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with Dr. Molina, demonstrated that same year that leaks of liquefied petroleum gas, or L.P.G., used for cooking and heating in almost every home in Mexico City, were a major factor in the poisoning of the air.
People burn more than two million tons of L.P.G. a year in Mexico City -- 70,000 barrels a day. Pemex reformulated the bottled fuel, removing butylene, a volatile and environmentally harmful ingredient, but the gas still leaks from millions of poorly maintained pipes and tubes, and it represents perhaps 15 percent of the air pollution in Mexico City, the Molinas say. 
Then in 1997 the first popularly elected municipal government took power in Mexico City. Its left-of-center leaders were more amenable to stiffer environmental regulations, the Molinas say.
The Mexico City study, which will continue for another two years, suggests that "new technology exists that is clean enough to solve the problem to a significant extent," Mario Molina said. "But it's expensive. The main one would be clean cars, buses, trucks -- I'm just talking about plain standard internal combustion engines. Then, the next set of changes are harder: repairing leaks of L.P.G. in peoples' homes, replacing pilot lights, the use of solvents in small industries and homes. For industries, you need clean furnaces, to remove nitrogen oxide and other pollutants."
Things had gotten so bad in Mexico City that some scientists seriously proposed blowing a hole in the mountains on one side of the capital and setting up giant fans on the other to push away the smog. Dr. Molina suggests that with clear-air regulations -- and cleaner government to enforce them -- such desperate measures may not be necessary.
Thirty years ago, the air in Los Angeles was worse than it is in Mexico City today, Dr. Molina says. "Mexico City's air can improve as much as Los Angeles's did, and in a shorter time," he said. "That's a goal that can be achieved."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mexico City's air pollution, though still high, may be improving, new research suggests. Hector Castro, an emissions technician, enforces one of the city's increasingly stringent new rules requiring vehicle inspections. (Photographs by Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOG (90%); CHEMISTRY (90%); EMISSIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); PARTICULATE MATTER (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); NITROGEN OXIDES (74%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (74%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (74%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (72%); VEHICLE INSPECTIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); OZONE DEPLETION (69%); CARBON MONOXIDE (67%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (61%) AIR POLLUTION; CARBON DIOXIDE; SULFUR DIOXIDE; SMOG; LEAD 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%)

PERSON: WEINER, TIM; MOLINA, MARIO J (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (91%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (50%) MEXICO CITY (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



90 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Rate Cuts Reverberate in Asian Stock Markets 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Stock markets across Asia exulted almost unanimously today in the aftermath of the Federal Reserve's cut in interest rates in the United States. But to some economists here, the celebrations rang a bit hollow.
 Asian countries remain dangerously dependent on the United States economy, these experts said. While the rate cut lifted spirits in Asia's sluggish markets, the Fed's abrupt move signals weaknesses in the United States that could spell long-term trouble for this region. 
 "At the very least, the U.S. economy is weakening far more quickly than anyone expected," said Dong Tao, a regional economist at Credit Suisse First Boston in Hong Kong. "That means Asia's exports to the United States will perform even worse than they have in the last few months."
Such fears were not apparent today in markets from Seoul to Singapore. The rally was most dramatic in South Korea, where the Composite Stock Price Index soared more than 7 percent to close at 558.2 points. In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index jumped 4.4 percent, closing at 15,235.03 points.
Shares in Taiwan and Singapore rose 4.9 percent and 3.2 percent respectively. Even in the Philippines, which has been been rattled by a scandal involving the president, Joseph Estrada, stocks rose nearly 2 percent.
Only Japan seemed to share the ambivalence of the experts. After rising more than 1 percent in the first minutes of trading, the Nikkei index closed down 0.7 percent in a shortened holiday session. Analysts said Japan's own economic worries outweighed the impact of the rate cut.
Elsewhere in Asia, investors seemed relieved that the Federal Reserve was moving aggressively to cushion a slowdown in the United States. That is crucial for countries like South Korea and Taiwan, where recovery from the Asian crisis was fueled largely by exports to the booming American market.
"I don't think this guarantees we're out of the woods," said Dan Fineman, a regional strategist at J. P. Morgan Chase in Singapore. "But even with an uncertain outlook for the U.S., we have to be cheering."
The slowdown in the United States has already reverberated through Asia. In South Korea, exports grew 20.4 percent in the first 11 months of last year. But in December, the growth rate fell to 1 percent. Mr. Tao predicted that exports from South Korea and other Asian countries would contract in the first half of 2001.
Among Asian economies, Hong Kong is the clearest beneficiary of the Fed's action. The former British colony links its currency to the United States dollar and rates here move in tandem with those in the United States.
Shares of banks and property development companies, which are the linchpin of the Hong Kong market, soared today. Officials here praised Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, and left little doubt that he effectively functions as Hong Kong's central banker as well. 
"I hope Mr. Greenspan, together with the Treasury Secretary in the U.S., will help to prevent a hard landing in the U.S. economy," said Sir Donald Tsang, the financial secretary of Hong Kong. "This is a very useful first step."
Economists are divided on how a deteriorating United States economy will affect Asia's efforts to overhaul its own economies. Some experts believe that that effort, which was fitful even during last year's relatively good times, will stall if financial markets collapse and foreign reserves dwindle.
"Korea missed a window of opportunity last year when growth was strong, inflation was low, and there was tremendous interest in bidding for Korean assets," Mr. Tao said. "Now, they'll have to do it in a much tougher environment."
But Simon Ogus, an independent economist, contends that Asia's swift recovery from the crisis of 1997 and 1998 allowed officials here to ignore the need to confront bankrupt companies and insolvent banks.
In South Korea, he said, falling exports will cause the country's balance of payments to dry up. And that might finally force the country's heavily indebted conglomerates to sell assets to foreign buyers.
"If the U.S. has a sharp slowdown, Asia will have a nasty dip," Mr. Ogus said. "But the tough circumstances may finally catalyze changes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hong Kong traders exulted in yesterday's share gains. (Reuters) Chart: "Mixed Reaction"Several Asian stock markets rose strongly yesterday in response to the rate cut on Wednesday by the Federal Reserve, but other markets moved little or fell as investors worried about how the weakening U.S. economy could affect the region. CHANGE IN MAJOR STOCK MARKET INDEXES YESTERDAYSouth Korea -- +7.02Hong Kong -- +4.42Thailand -- +2.47Indonesia -- +0.99Japan -- -0.68 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BONDS (73%); SCANDALS (71%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); HONG KONG (96%); ASIA (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); SINGAPORE (93%); JAPAN (93%); TAIWAN (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); THAILAND (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDONESIA (79%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



91 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: To Fix the Electricity Mess, More Power Plants Are Needed 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
DURING the campaign, President-elect George W. Bush complained that the Clinton administration had no energy policy. He had a point.
 Unfortunately, Mr. Bush concentrated his fire on the highly contentious issue of whether to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska to oil drillers. Whatever the merits of drilling there, it will be years before the refuge produces usable amounts of oil and natural gas. 
 The more immediate challenge for former Senator Spencer Abraham, the energy secretary-designate, will be to do something about the electricity mess this country is in. The most valuable thing the Bush team could do is to clarify the issues, and then force action.
The issue is not whether markets work, as some would have it, and is only partly related to how badly deregulation was handled in many states, particularly California but also New York, where a hot summer could be disastrous.
The issue is a simple one: there is not enough electricity being produced, and in some areas there are not enough transmission lines to get power to where it is needed. 
Talk about getting government out of the way, or about the wonders of markets, or of the need to relax regulation, is not what is needed. Instead, someone needs to take the lead in ensuring that enough generating capacity is built, and quickly.
In the old regulated days, it was the responsibility of the local electric utility to assure that enough power was provided. Plants had to be built, whatever the hurdles.
Over time, the hurdles grew higher. There were environmental concerns. The antinuclear movement stopped new nuclear plants from being built. Towns viewed plants as eyesores.
When deregulation became the fad, many states decided to get the local utility out of the generating business. Instead, they said, the market would provide power.
But the market is not being allowed to do that job. In New York State, demand is up 12.2 percent since 1993, while generating capacity is up 2.6 percent. There are proposals for 60 new generating plants, with a total capacity roughly equal to the current use in the state. If all those plants were to be built, there would be a glut of capacity. 
That won't happen. Each proposed plant has local opponents and there appears to be no sense of urgency. Just one of those plants has made it through the state bureaucracy, and that one faces delays in getting federal permits. There is a need for small new plants this summer in New York City, but it is not clear if the state agency trying to build them will succeed in overcoming local opposition.
The situation is not as bad in some other states, but in many places the new market-based system has not produced the needed power. With shortages of generating capacity, those who own the plants are getting rich. The customers -- and the economy -- will be the losers. In California, where authorities are reluctant to let utilities pass on the costs, utility bankruptcies are possible.
In sum, we now have the worst of all worlds. The market is not allowed to provide an adequate supply of electricity, but those who have power plants can earn big profits by charging prices that reflect the shortage.
A reliable, reasonably priced supply of electricity is critical to the functioning of a modern economy, and there are few more important tasks for government than ensuring that such elemental infrastructure is available. It should be the top priority of the new energy secretary to get needed power plants built as rapidly as possible.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "No Growth"Graph tracks New York State electric generating capacity since 1994.(Source: N.Y. Independant System Operator) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (86%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); WILDLIFE (72%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); PLANT CAPACITY (70%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (64%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SHORTAGES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



92 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 402 words

PERSON: James Charles Corman 

HEADLINE: James Corman, 80, Lawmaker Who Championed Civil Rights 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
James Charles Corman, a 10-term congressman from California who helped steer the 1964 Civil Rights Act to passage, died on Saturday at a rehabilitation center in Arlington, Va., where he was being treated after a stroke. He was 80 and lived in McLean, Va.
 A liberal Democrat, he served in the House from 1961 to 1981, representing the San Fernando Valley. He was defeated for re-election in 1980 by a Republican, Bobbi Fiedler, losing by 752 votes. 
 Many political analysts attributed his defeat to President Jimmy Carter's early concession to Ronald Reagan, which came before the polls closed on the West Coast, discouraging some Democrats from voting. Ms. Fiedler, a fiscal conservative, gave up the seat in 1986 for an unsuccessful run against Senator Alan M. Cranston.
In Congress, Mr. Corman, the son of a Kansas miner, worked for changes in welfare and tax laws. He was one of 10 members appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson to the Kerner Commission, which investigated the causes of race riots in scores of cities in 1967 and concluded that the country was becoming "two societies, one black, one white -- separate and unequal." 
He gave crucial support to civil rights causes and furthered the 1964 legislation as a member of the Judiciary Committee. 
He also sat on the Ways and Means Committee and House panels on public assistance, unemployment compensation and small business.
Mr. Corman was born in Galena, Kan., and graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1942. He served as a Marine Corps officer in World War II and saw combat on Guam and Iwo Jima. He was a colonel in the Reserves during the Korean War.
He received a law degree at the University of Southern California in 1948 and practiced in Los Angeles in the 1950's. Before his election to Congress, he was a member of the Los Angeles City Council.
From 1981 until his first stroke, in August, he practiced law in Washington, specializing in social issues and tax legislation. Most recently he was with the firm of Silverstein & Mullens, where he was a partner in the early 1990's.
Mr. Corman is survived by his wife of 23 years, Nancy Breetwor-Malone Corman, and their two sons, Adam R. and Brian C., all of McLean; a daughter and son from his earlier marriage, Mary Anne Avendano of Woodbridge, Va., and James C. Jr. of Shelburne, Mass., and five grandchildren. His first wife, Virginia Little Corman, died in 1966. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CIVIL RIGHTS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STROKE TREATMENT & REHABILITATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); WORLD WAR II (86%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); TAX LAW (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); KOREAN WAR (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); CITIES (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); RIOTS (52%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIMMY CARTER (79%) CORMAN, JAMES CHARLES; SAXON, WOLFGANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GUAM (79%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



93 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Two Economic Policy Captains Working With Different Tools; 
Greenspan Is Determined to Avoid Repeating the Mistake of 1990

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

 BODY:
In the second half of 1989 and again in mid-1990, Alan Greenspan and his colleagues at the Federal Reserve trimmed interest rates, sensing that the economy was slowing. But Mr. Greenspan did not see any substantial threat of a recession, and although he continued to cut rates in subsequent months, he did so in small steps.
 It was one of the few times in his more than 13 years as Fed chairman that Mr. Greenspan got it wrong. The economy had gone into a recession in the summer of 1990 without the central bank recognizing it or responding in any aggressive fashion. 
 It is a mistake that Mr. Greenspan seems determined to avoid repeating as a long boom again gives way to a period of economic risk. 
In cutting the Fed's benchmark federal funds target rate by half a percentage point on Wednesday -- in attention-grabbing fashion -- Mr. Greenspan was clearly signaling his willingness to act early and vigorously to keep the current expansion going.
And in doing so he reminded the world that interest rate policy, while an imperfect tool for managing the ups and downs of the economy, can be put to use far more quickly than the alternative, which in this case is to cut taxes.
"In 1990, the Fed's performance was not bad, but it was suboptimal," said Allen Sinai, an economist at Primark Decision Economics, a consulting firm. "I can't believe he's forgotten that. He seems to have said we're not going to do it that way because we could have done better."
In moving so aggressively, the Fed chairman implicitly acknowledged another reality that has often been lost as his stature as master of the economy has grown: setting interest rates is an extremely tricky business, one that is subject not just to errors in judgment but also to rapidly changing economic conditions.
The Fed action on Wednesday was in essence a reversal of the half-point increase that Mr. Greenspan adopted just last May, when it seemed that the economy was on the brink of overheating. And the cycle of rate increases that concluded last May was itself in part a response to a series of rate cuts in late 1998 that helped send economic growth up to potentially inflationary levels.
"They eased too much in 1998," said Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at Banc of America Securities. "Then they tightened, appropriately, but tightened too much. Having done so, they have now again moved appropriately this time."
Yet while it is easy to criticize in hindsight, Mr. Levy and other analysts said, Mr. Greenspan has distinguished himself again through his flexibility and willingness to adapt to new data, new anecdotal evidence about the state of the economy and new thinking about policy prescriptions.
"Alan Greenspan is the guy in the white hat at the Fed because he has been open to understanding how the economy is changing and has been prepared to take action to deal with that," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. He was open to the technological changes that were showing productivity gains leading to higher economic growth without inflation, Mr. Jasinowski added, "and he remained open to how the cumulative impact of energy price increases, interest rate increases and stock market declines were taking the economy down."
Moreover, analysts said, Mr. Greenspan has a knack for discerning what is happening in the economy well before it is apparent in official data, giving him the ability to move before it is too late to head off trouble. Part of that knack, they said, is an ability to detect the effect on the economy of investor and consumer psychology. That is true whether that psychology is irrational exuberance of the sort that four years ago he warned was infecting the stock market or the bleaker version that accompanied the pricking of the technology-stock bubble in recent months.
"Psychology is so important," said Alice M. Rivlin, a former vice chairman of the Fed. "This intermeeting move was an indication that the psychology of the situation could have made the downturn worse, and that it was better to act sooner rather than later."
Mr. Greenspan has always been uncomfortable with his status as an all-knowing seer. He often describes himself as just a hard-working economist with a lot of experience, and he sometimes seems to feel intense pressure to live up to the expectation that he can work miracles.
To some degree, he has done so, by helping to avoid a recession for almost 10 years, the longest stretch of consistent growth on record. At age 74, Mr. Greenspan no doubt is thinking about how history will view him, and guiding the economy into a second decade of expansion would be a legacy not soon forgotten.
He also has to be careful about the political influence that his success at the Fed has given him. The timing of the rate cut this week put the Fed in the middle of the debate over whether the economic slowdown provided more justification for cutting taxes, as President-elect George W. Bush and his fellow Republicans in Congress would like.
Republicans viewed the rate cut as validating their position that the economy could use the stimulus that a tax cut would provide. They stuck to that position even though it would take the better part of a year for a tax bill to make it through Congress, and it would probably be next year before any tax cut could have much of an economic effect.
Democrats viewed the Fed action as evidence that monetary policy was far better suited to dealing with the business cycle than fiscal policy. They said that while it might be time for a tax cut -- especially given the growth in the budget surplus -- there was no need to rush through a huge reduction in taxes.
That both sides could claim the Fed chairman as an ally for their views no doubt gratifies Mr. Greenspan, who finds it useful to have support for himself and the Fed on both sides of the aisle.
But keeping that support requires first that he not make any major mistakes. In cutting rates this week, Mr. Greenspan seemed intent on not succumbing to the tendency among central bankers to wait until the official data show incontrovertible evidence of trouble before acting.
Mr. Sinai said the real challenge for Mr. Greenspan or any forecaster was to recognize when gradual linear patterns of economic behavior had given way to sharp but not immediately evident changes. In this case, he said, Mr. Greenspan appeared to have relied on hard data, anecdotal evidence and instinct to conclude that the economy had reached an inflection point that required an immediate response.
In acting now, Mr. Greenspan is also illustrating his belief that monetary policy needs to act to prevent problems in the economy, not just to rectify them. More so than any of his predecessors, Mr. Greenspan seeks to head off inflation before it takes root, and, as in this case, to keep the economy growing rather than to revive it once it has stalled.
"The revolution of the Greenspan Fed," Mr. Sinai said, "is that monetary policy is forward looking." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The surprising Fed action on Wednesday was in essence a reversal of the half-point increase that Alan Greenspan adopted just last May. (Associated Press)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TAX LAW (65%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; TAXATION 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (94%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



94 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Two Economic Policy Captains Working With Different Tools; 
Bush Makes Certain His Style Contrasts With That of Clinton

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Eight years ago, with the economy in trouble and a new administration scurrying to take over the White House, Bill Clinton called more than 300 business leaders to Little Rock, Ark., for a conference that sprawled over 19 hours, most of them live on television.
 At times playing the role of economics professor, at moments arguing with his guests over everything from taxes to health care, Mr. Clinton ran what amounted to a national economics talk show. 
 Larry King, foreshadowing what was to come, suggested at the session's end that Mr. Clinton might someday become the competition. "I can see us going head to head." he said, " 'Larry King Live' and 'Bill Clinton Live.' " 
This week in Austin, George W. Bush tackled the same problem with a distinctly different style -- in what may prove an early indication about how the presidency is about to change. He invited a much smaller group of business leaders and high-technology executives here to his hometown and sought their counsel in a room closed to the press and cameras. If there were any disagreements -- and there didn't seem to be many, by all accounts -- they were off the record. At the end of each day, a small group of executives stepped forward to talk about how enthusiastic they are about the president-elect's economic prescriptions, starting with his plans for a deep tax cut. 
Mr. Clinton later said the Little Rock conference helped change his view, moving him away from his campaign platform and toward a strategy of deficit reduction in hopes of lowering interest rates and spurring the economy. Mr. Bush said today that the lesson of his economic conference was to charge ahead with his program on an accelerated basis.
"I am thinking through my strategy right now," he said. "I think that tax relief is necessary. The question is how fast we implement it. It is possible that we may need to implement it faster."
If tax cuts were the substantive message of the week, the stylistic one was this: Any resemblance between the way Bill Clinton ran the White House, past or present, and the way Mr. Bush intends to run it it is purely coincidental.
Mr. Clinton's aides saw Little Rock as a way to sell Mr. Clinton's economic plans, and as a way to establish him as a national leader. 
"We wanted to build confidence in the president, and in his views, but we also wanted to show his wide-ranging ability to deal with these issues," said Mickey Kantor, who organized the conference and later went on to become Mr. Clinton's trade representative and then commerce secretary.
Mr. Bush's team is clearly pursuing a different strategy, one that leaves little to chance. While Mr. Bush has taken questions at relatively short news conferences announcing new members of his cabinet, his aides appear more leery of exposing him to hours of live give-and-take on issues that participants said ranged today from America's trade relations with China to immigration, privacy and education initiatives. But why not burn up free television hours -- in a week with relatively little other news -- with the president-elect building a consensus.
"We wanted very candid conversations," said Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's top campaign strategist, who today was appointed to become Mr. Bush's senior political adviser in the White House. "We knew we wouldn't have that if it was an open meeting." 
Mr. Bush's top economic strategist, Lawrence B. Lindsey, said today the participants clearly liked the idea of a private chat with the president-elect. "I don't mean to be critical of Little Rock," he said, "but people who were at both -- there and here -- told me they thought this was terrific."
Of course, putting a president live on television talking about the economy is always risky. It took Mr. Clinton more than a year to learn the dangers of talking about the dollar. And in a jittery market, any slips of the tongue -- free advice to the Federal Reserve, for instance -- can have unintended consequences. It's also possible, even likely, that today's sessions might not have made very compelling television.
In 1992 the country appeared to be mired in recession (only in retrospect is it clear that the recovery was already under way) and everything seemed in need of a fix: national productivity, the competitiveness of American manufacturing companies, skyrocketing health care costs, a budget deficit that would only grow larger every year.
There was a sense of crisis, which Mr. Clinton used to advance his agenda. Today, the deficit has turned to a surplus and the fundamentals of the economy seem in much sounder shape, even if the speed and intensity of the country's slowdown has taken everyone -- including the Fed -- by surprise.
Debating whether to front-load a tax cut so that it takes effect more quickly and stimulates economic growth -- something both Mr. Lindsey and Mr. Bush talked about today -- may seem less exciting than promising to remake American capitalism. And Mr. Bush's team has clearly concluded that it is better to organize a quiet ground swell of support for that position among business executives than to make the pitch directly.
Moreover, just as Mr. Clinton made sure there were few supply-siders on hand at Little Rock, Mr. Bush's team appears not to have invited anyone who believes that tax cuts are a terrible idea, or that the country would be better off getting rid of the national debt as soon as possible.
"We talked briefly about the need for fiscal stimulus," said Michael S. Dell, the founder of Dell Computer, which is based here. "There needs to be a multipronged approach," he said, "the Fed's rate cut and then a tax cut."
While Mr. Rove said that there was "a spirited exchange" on some questions of privacy in the Internet age, the participants said there were no real arguments. "We found him very, very crisp on all the high-tech issues," John T. Chambers, the president of Cisco Systems, said of Mr. Bush. Mr. Chambers said that much of the lunchtime session was spent discussing education of future workers. "A decade from now it will be jobs in the U.S. versus jobs in India or jobs in Jordan," Mr. Chambers said. 
Several of the executives pressed Mr. Bush to support an expansion of the number of visas granted to high-technology professionals seeking to work in the United States, a labor force Silicon Valley has come to depend upon.
Perhaps the most notable feature of the sessions over the last two days was who was missing. The Treasury secretary-designate, Paul O'Neill, was in Washington visiting senators who will vote on his nomination. That was in sharp contrast to Little Rock, which was attended by both Mr. Clinton's Treasury-secretary designate, Lloyd Bentsen, and the man who would succeed him, Robert E. Rubin. 
Also missing were any members of Mr. Bush's foreign policy team. Neither the secretary of state-designate, Colin Powell, or the future national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, were in town for the meeting. 
And while trade was a major subject, Mr. Bush has yet to appoint a trade representative, and Bush aides have hinted that the job may be downgraded in status. Every president for the last 20 years has treated the trade representative as a cabinet-level post; Mr. Bush's aides say that is under review.
The second curiosity has been Mr. Bush's departure on Wednesday from the longtime White House practice of saying as little as possible about actions of the Federal Reserve. When Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, announced a half-point cut in interest rates during the first session with business leaders here, Mr. Bush embraced the action, telling reporters "I think the cut was needed."
That seemed inoffensive -- after all it put Mr. Greenspan and Mr. Bush on the same side of the issue. But it also amounted to what one former Clinton administration official called "a normative statement about Fed action," which creates the expectation that, whenever there are future actions by the Fed, the president will offer up his approval or disapproval.
Today Ari Fleisher, Mr. Bush's press secretary, said that was not necessarily the case. "I think the president-elect will judge events and make his determinations as different events warrant," he said.

List of Leaders At Bush Meeting

STEVEN R. APPLETON, chair-man, Micron Technology
JAMES L. BARKSDALE, co-founder, Barksdale Group
CRAIG R. BARRETT, chief executive, Intel
CAROL A. BARTZ, chairwoman, AutoDesk
STEPHEN M. CASE, chairman, America Online
JOHN T. CHAMBERS, chief executive, Cisco Systems
MICHAEL S. DELL, chairman, Dell Computer
RICHARD J. EGAN, chairman, EMC
CARLY FIORINA, chairwoman, Hewlett-Packard
LOUIS V. GERSTNER, chair-man, I.B.M.
DAVID W. HANNA, chairman, Hanna Capital Management
FLOYD KVAMME, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers
SCOTT G. McNEALY, chairman, Sun Microsystems
JAMES C. MORGAN, chairman, Applied Materials
STEVE PAPERMASTER, exec-utive chairman, Agillion
LEONARD M. POMATA, Oracle
GREGORY W. SLAYTON, chief executive, ClickAction

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect George W. Bush with business leaders yesterday in Austin, Tex. From left, Louis V. Gerstner, chief of I.B.M.; Carly Fiorina, chief of Hewlett-Packard; Mr. Bush; and Michael S. Dell, chief of Dell Computer. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLITICS (65%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); MICHAEL DELL (59%) CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



95 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: The Big Question: How Much Further Is the Fed Willing to Go on Rates? 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Now that Federal Reserve policy makers have cut their benchmark interest rate sharply and unexpectedly, the question is how much further are they going to go?
 The nation's central bank can be expected to do whatever it thinks is necessary to keep the economy from heading into what President-elect George W. Bush called a "tailspin." (Remember that to slow runaway growth and head off inflationary forces the Fed raised interest rates much higher than many Wall Street forecasters expected.) 
 The problem is nobody knows how low the Fed will have to go to avoid a tailspin, after cutting the target for the federal funds rate by half a percentage point to 6 percent on Wednesday. 
History shows, though, that investors may be surprised by what the Fed does since the markets rarely guess correctly how high or how low rates will go. Investors will get some guidance today from the government's unemployment report for December, because it will give the latest indication of how weak the economy is.
What's more, many companies and investors may feel they are in a recession even if the economy technically avoids one, usually defined as two consecutive quarters in which the economy contracts rather than grows. The manufacturing sector is already in a slump. And the sharp slackening in growth that many economists expect -- down to just a 1 or 2 percent growth rate from the recent 5 percent pace -- is the kind of sharp deceleration that used to leave the economy in a tailspin.
"In feeling, it will be a recession," said James Glassman, senior United States economist at J. P. Morgan Securities. "The Fed can't do much about what is going to happen in the next six months."
That feeling may help bonds rally, but it is not likely to reassure the stock market, which ended down yesterday, after a euphoric rally on Wednesday when the Fed cut rates.
When the Fed was trying to slow the economy with six rate increases in less than a year, it proved to be more resilient than policy makers or Wall Street analysts thought. So the economy may now prove to be much weaker and harder to revive than people assume. If so, the Fed would cut its target rate more than now anticipated, and market rates could fall sharply.
In that case, stocks might take some time to resume a sustained climb because corporate earnings growth, already slowing, could decline. In addition, it is hard to say how equity investors will react to additional rate cuts. If they believe the Fed is moving too slowly, stocks could suffer.
But if the economy slows sharply, without tumbling into a traditional recession, maybe the Fed will not have to cut its target rate so much. That means Treasury interest rates may have neared a bottom, a fact reflected in the sell-off in the bond market and the jump in Treasury yields after the Fed's announcement Wednesday.
In this case, stocks may get support if the economic data shows that things are not getting worse. If, however, investors have become addicted to Fed rate cuts -- demanding one every time there is some disappointing news -- stocks may have a rough road ahead. Investors may also turn out to be cautious and wait for clearly positive earnings news -- which may not appear until the second half of this year -- before jumping back into the market.
All this is reflected in the range of forecasts for what the Fed will do from here on and reflected in where interest rates are right now.
Louis Crandall, chief economist at R. H. Wrightson, said there were two ways to look at the Fed move:
"Does the Fed see something we don't or is the Fed applying new rules?"
He predicts an additional quarter-point cut at the January meeting, to 5.75 percent for the federal funds rate, and then "a wait and see" approach. By the next scheduled meeting in March, he said, some of the dislocations that have contributed to the slowdown, including harsh weather, high energy prices and power shortages, "may fade as the heating season comes to an end."
Bruce Steinberg, the chief economist at Merrill Lynch, said the Fed would be more aggressive. He expects a quarter-point cut at the end of the month and another cut of a quarter-point or half a point at the meeting in March. He expects the rate to be down to 5.25 percent or 5 percent by June. "The Fed has to accelerate the rate reductions to keep the economy on an even keel," he said.
Mr. Glassman said the Fed would cut even further, with a half percentage point reduction at the end of the month and further cuts that bring the fed funds rate target down to 4.75 percent by June. "In our mind the Fed is still stepping on the brake," he said. "So it has to get the foot off the brake quickly." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



96 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Gates Leading the Charge Into Consumer Electronics
The bearish news from the personal computer industry may be sowing fear in Silicon Valley, but none of that anxiety is apparent at Microsoft, whose software fortunes were built on the PC boom. For even with domestic PC sales down 24 percent in December from a year earlier -- and even as Microsoft is warning that its own revenue is likely to falter as a consequence -- consumer electronics is increasingly seen as the next big thing.
 Indeed, William H. Gates, the Microsoft co-founder who now calls himself chief software architect, seems focused on an entirely different business as his company prepares to introduce its X-Box video game system, its first foray into the high-stakes, high-risk consumer electronics business. Page C4. 

George to Cease With March Issue
George, the magazine founded by John F. Kennedy Jr. that combined politics and celebrity in an often unwieldy pairing, will cease publication with the March issue. C3.

EToys to Lay Off 70% of Workers
EToys said that it would lay off 700 of its 1,000 employees and close two of its smaller warehouses, a day after the company said it would close its European operations. Its chief rival, toysrus.com, said that its sales for the nine-week holiday season were $124 million, at the low end of analysts' expectations. C4.

True North to Take a Charge
True North Communications, which is handing over its huge Chrysler Group creative and media advertising assignments to the Omnicom Group, said it would take a one-time charge of up to $20 million in the fourth quarter and lay off about 150 employees in the wake of the loss of the assignments, with billings estimated at $1.8 billion. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C3.

Stocks Fall in Bout of Profit Taking
Stocks fell as investors took profits from gains after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates. The Nasdaq composite index, which surged a record 14.2 percent on Wednesday, fell 49.86 points, or 1.9 percent, to 2,566.83. The Dow Jones industrial average slumped 33.34 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,912.41, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 14.22 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,333.34. C6.

Taubman May Sell Sotheby's Shares
A. Alfred Taubman, the former chairman of Sotheby's Holdings and the focus of a federal antitrust investigation, filed papers that signal his exploration of a sale of his controlling interest in the company. Mr. Taubman reported in a filing with the S.E.C. that he had hired Credit Suisse First Boston to evaluate his investment in Sotheby's and put a value on his 13.2 million shares, a step that some analysts read as a prelude to divestiture or merger discussions. Shares of Sotheby's rose $1.88, to $24.13. C11.

Reports Indicate Labor Weakness
In signs of weakness in the labor market, United States companies announced 133,713 job cuts in December, more than triple the number in November, a private survey showed, and the Labor Department said the number of Americans filing for new unemployment benefits climbed to its highest level in two and a half years. A third report showed that orders for new goods from factories rebounded 1.7 percent in November, beating forecasts. C5.

News. Corp to Lay Off Hundreds
The News Corporation plans to lay off several hundred workers at the New York and Los Angeles offices of the FoxNews.com, FoxSports.com and Fox.com Web sites as it consolidates its Internet operations. B1.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,912.41 down 33.34Nasdaq composite -- 2,566.83 down 49.8610-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.03% down 0.13The euro -- $0.9492 up 0.0207The dollar -- 115.71 yen up 2.08 Graphs: "TODAY" shows unemployment and new-home sales since May. Graph tracks Sotheby's share price since Thursday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (86%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MERGERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); SECURITIES LAW (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (82%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (67%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (66%); SOTHEBY'S (51%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (50%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); OMC (NYSE) (82%); IPG (NYSE) (67%); BID (NYSE) (51%); CSGN (SWX) (50%); CS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (51%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (51%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: BILL GATES (79%); A ALFRED TAUBMAN (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



97 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
New Focus for Gates Is Consumer Electronics

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash., Jan. 4 

 BODY:
The bearish news from the personal computer industry may be sowing fear in Silicon Valley, but none of that anxiety is apparent on the sprawling corporate campus of Microsoft, whose software fortunes were built on the PC boom. 
 For even with domestic PC sales down 24 percent in December from a year earlier -- and even as Microsoft is warning that its own revenues are likely to falter as a consequence -- the frontier of consumer electronics is increasingly seen here as the next big thing. 
 Indeed, William H. Gates, the Microsoft co-founder who now calls himself chief software architect, seems focused on an entirely different business as his company prepares to introduce its X-Box video-game system, its first foray into the high-stakes, high-risk consumer electronics business.
In Mr. Gates's mind, winning in consumer electronics simply requires applying the same lessons the company has mastered in the computer arena. 
"This is about great software, and it's about evangelization," he said today in an interview in his office here. "Why did MS-DOS succeed and Microsoft Office succeed? In all those things it was about evangelization, and it was about getting great software engineers to put the pieces together. That's still at the core of this thing."
Aside from the cloud of an antitrust ruling that threatens to break up his company, Mr. Gates seems to see opportunity in almost every bit of potential adversity these days.
He believes that the company is in an excellent position to weather any economic downturn, he said, and even the pending merger of Time Warner and America Online -- which Microsoft has joined in challenging before federal regulators -- may have a silver lining. 
Moreover, Mr. Gates said he was becoming comfortable with his new role as the company's software architect, a job he took last spring after he handed the chief executive position to his longtime friend and partner Steven A. Ballmer.
Mr. Gates still has his office in the company's corporate suite. But he said he spent his days working on a variety of new problems, among them building new skills from the consumer electronics world.
Some days, he said, involve exploring problems like what happens when a child pulls the new X-Box off the shelf and it bounces on a hard floor, or the potential hazards in the sheaving of a cable that will come with the machine.
"If you'd asked me three or four months ago I'd have said, 'Hmmm, I don't know how I'm doing; I'm trying,' " he said. But he and Mr. Ballmer compared notes after the holidays, he said, and he believes that he has figured out how to be effective in his new capacity.
On Sunday Mr. Gates will travel to Las Vegas for the annual Consumer Electronics Show in an unaccustomed role -- that of neophyte and underdog -- to introduce the X-Box to an industry increasingly dominated by digital appliances and gadgets, including the competing game consoles of Sony, Nintendo and Sega. But he said the time for Microsoft's entry into the arena was ripe. 
"This year electronics driven by software is really starting to come into the home in a big way," Mr. Gates said. "You see it with music, you see it with photos, you see it with TV, you see it with the ways people are using PC's as a creativity center."
Microsoft's new strategy is not without peril, and Mr. Gates acknowledged that consumer electronics, like the PC business, is sensitive to the economic tides.
"Certainly the economy will affect what portion of consumers can move in the first year," he said. "Sure it will affect the volumes, and consumers are price sensitive."
But while he acknowledged the possibility of an economic downturn, Mr. Gates said he felt that Microsoft was in a better position to weather it than many other companies. And he said any weakening in the dollar might help Microsoft over all by stimulating international sales. 
"We've seen some ups and downs before, and we're not cutting back the investment we make," he said, noting that the slowdown had caused the company to cut back some projects. But he said Microsoft would again spend more than $3 billion on research and development -- an amount permitting it to create "a lot of great software."
In addition to being upbeat about the economy, Mr. Gates said he was not deeply concerned about the pending merger of Time Warner and America Online, which is expected to receive final approval in the next few days from the Federal Communications Commission. 
Microsoft's opposition has been based in part on its challenge to America Online in the field of instant messaging, an area in which the F.C.C. may place restrictions on the merged company. Mr. Gates said that the merger might actually open new avenues for Microsoft to create strategic alliance with other AOL Time Warner competitors, like the Walt Disney Company. 
"Nobody's ever doubted that merger would go through," he said. "This just reinforces the fact that we're not a media company and that will probably facilitate us working with Disney and Newsweek and whoever else is out there." Such cooperation may be increasingly valuable as Microsoft continues to move into media and entertainment ventures.
And even the Internet downturn has had an upside for Microsoft, he said: increasing the availability of talent. About 100 people have returned to Microsoft after leaving to join start-ups, he said.
"They saw the real world and returned," he said.
Despite his push into the gaming business, Mr. Gates confessed that he is by and large not an active gamer -- although he did confess to one 20-hour binge with a recent Microsoft game called Pandora's Box, written by Alexey Pajitnov, a designer of the popular game Tetris.
Still, Mr. Gates said he understood the game-playing psychology.
"When I was in college, for the games of that era, I was as hard core as anyone was," he said. "I wouldn't say I outgrew it, but you always have to have a finite number of addictions."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 6, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the Microsoft Corporation's move into consumer electronics misstated the timing of an appearance by William H. Gates at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. It is today, not tomorrow.

GRAPHIC: Photo: WIlliam H. Gates, Microsoft's co-founder, now calls himself the company's chief software architect. He is ready to introduce the X-Box, a new video game system at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. (Gary Settle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ELECTRONICS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); ENGINEERING (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); MERGERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (70%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) COMPUTER AND VIDEO GAMES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (91%); AOL INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (91%); AOL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: BILL GATES (91%) GATES, WILLIAM H; MARKOFF, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



98 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: News Corp. Plans Hundreds of Layoffs at Web Sites 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation has decided to scale back sharply its ambitious efforts to provide original material on its Web sites and plans to lay off several hundred workers within the next few weeks. 
 Hundreds of jobs will be cut or lost through attrition at the New York and Los Angeles offices of the FoxNews.com, Fox Sports.com and Fox.com sites on the World Wide Web. Three executives said the Chelsea office of News Corporation's Internet division on West 18th Street, called News Digital Media, would be closed within two months. 
 The cutbacks follow a growing tide of layoffs at Internet companies in the city, and are a blow to Silicon Alley's hopes that Internet subsidiaries of large corporations would be spared the troubles afflicting smaller dot-coms. 
Jon Richmond, the president of News Digital Media, said in an interview yesterday that it was "very hard to speculate how many positions will be eliminated," but the officials believed that enough of them would be cut to save the company tens of millions of dollars each year. 
News Corporation officials said that although News Digital Media would be closed down, the Web sites and many of the workers would be moved to Fox News Channel, Fox Sports Channel and Fox Television. 
"What we are trying to do is shift the production and news-gathering operations back to the operating organizations where we can achieve economies through integration," Mr. Richmond said. "What we are doing is restructuring in a way that it probably should have been structured originally."
Mr. Richmond said Fox hoped that the new arrangement would improve the Internet sites through better coordination with the television divisions. "A byproduct of that, leveraging the strengths of the other operations, will be a significant cost saving," he said. "We will be able to combine news gathering, video production and a whole bunch of other things that will provide savings."
He added: "Some of those things will come from reduced employee costs, some will come from other things, like in video production. Rather than having both groups producing video, we will combine those efforts."
Mr. Richmond said it was too early to discuss when and how the layoffs would be handled, but two other executives, who insisted on anonymity, said most of the employees would be laid off and then given a chance to reapply for their jobs. A senior executive said, though, that all the employees remaining once the layoffs were completed would be given jobs in the other Fox divisions.
Several employees at the Web sites had been meeting with News Corporation executives in the last few weeks as rumors of the layoffs became increasingly common. 
Several News Corporation employees, who also spoke only on the condition of anonymity, said Laura Durkin, senior vice president of News Digital Media, told employees in a newsroom meeting in New York yesterday that Fox News Channel executives would meet with them at 11 a.m. today to discuss plans for the future of the Web sites. "There is no one who is going to be fired tomorrow," she told them. Other executives said the layoffs could be completed by the end of February.
In October, News Digital Media dismissed about 20 percent of its New York news staff members and told almost all of its sports staff members to move to Los Angeles or lose their jobs. The word came two days after Mr. Murdoch, News Corporation chairman, told investors at the Australian company's annual meeting that he did not have confidence in Internet business models that are based on advertising revenue. In December, News Corporation sent executives from Fox News Channel to help run more of the day-to-day operations of the Web sites.
News Corporation has not disclosed whether News Digital Media has lost money, but employees knew that there would be some changes, and that it was possible that the Internet unit would be integrated back into other Fox divisions.
"We knew that there were going to be layoffs," one News Digital Media employee said, adding that recent layoffs had reduced the company's ability to produce original reports. 
According to Media Metrix, a New York company that monitors and counts visits to Web sites, FoxNews .com has had a harder time attracting visitors than have its competitors. In September, FoxNews.com had just under two million unique visitors, less than a quarter of MSNBC.com's 8.9 million visitors. CNN.com had 7.5 million visitors, and CBS.com sites and ABCNews .com had more than three million. 
"At the end of the day, I think of them as a latecomer who was underfunded and thought they could translate their successes on television onto the Web, and there is little value to that," said Guy Hoffman, a partner at TL Ventures, a venture capital firm with headquarters in Wayne, Pa. "Those who say traditional content sites are done, they're baked, they're cooked -- they're wrong. But there will only be a handful."
News Corporation officials said that the Internet division employed almost 500 workers and that a little more than 320 of them work for FoxNews.com, FoxSports.com and Fox.com. News Corporation, which also owns The New York Post and Fox Channel 5, employs 26,500 people worldwide. 
News Corporation's American depositary receipts, which represent four shares of stock each, rose 69 cents yesterday to $36.50 in New York Stock Exchange trading.
In recent months, several large companies have limited their efforts to produce original Web material or give their Internet divisions more independence. Each month since the Nasdaq fell sharply in April, a handful of Silicon Alley companies have withdrawn initial public offerings of their stock, depriving these sites of the potential capital influx from the offerings. 
Anna Copeland Wheatley, a longtime Silicon Alley advocate and the editor in chief of AlleyCat News, a Silicon Alley trade magazine, said yesterday in an interview that the layoffs at News Digital Media were the latest demonstration that "original and independent content is a fantasy," a trend that she said was also shown by the problems at Internet companies over the last nine months.
Ms. Wheatley said, "The Alley right now is unsettled.
"Among a group of people there is a cautious optimism, which is, 'If we can just get through to the second quarter, we'll be O.K.,' " she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Operations at the FoxNews.com site on the World Wide Web will be cut back and its workers laid off or reassigned. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NEWS REPORTING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WEB SITES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (86%); PUBLISHING (79%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); NETWORK TELEVISION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (70%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; TELEVISION; FINANCES 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%); NEWS CORP (95%)

ORGANIZATION: NEWS CORP; FOXNEWS.COM; FOXSPORTS.COM; FOX.COM; FOX BROADCASTING CO 

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (95%); NWS (ASX) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (74%) BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



99 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Commerce Designate Has Easy Going at Senate Hearing 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 4 

 BODY:
Donald L. Evans, President-elect George W. Bush's choice for commerce secretary, told senators at his confirmation hearing today that he had no position yet on how to handle the politically touchy census, but promised to enforce trade laws vigorously and to keep his department free of political influence peddling.
 Mr. Evans, a Texas oilman who served as Mr. Bush's campaign chairman and is a longtime friend of the president-elect, was the first cabinet selection to undergo the required Senate scrutiny, and he received a cordial reception. Several senators predicted during and after the hearing, conducted by the Senate Commerce Committee, that Mr. Evans would face little or no opposition. 
 Senator Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina, the committee's senior Democrat, was chairman of the hearing, because Democrats control the Senate until Dick Cheney succeeds Al Gore as vice president in two weeks. Mr. Hollings said at the end of the two-hour hearing that the committee hoped to send the Evans nomination to the Senate floor, with a recommendation that it be confirmed, in the first week after the inauguration.
Mr. Evans seemed to have charmed most committee members with visits to their offices in recent days, and he was asked relatively soft questions about how he would manage the department's many functions. The department promotes American companies, enforces trade agreements, reviews patents, researches the oceans, oversees the fishing industry, conducts the census and helps set standards and regulations for the technology industry.
Mr. Evans, who spent the last 25 years as a senior executive at Tom Brown Inc., an oil exploration company based in Midland, Tex., has never held a government position, though he did head the Board of Regents at the University of Texas, his alma mater.
Still, speaking in a soft Texas twang, he deflected the most sensitive queries with the deftness of an old Washington hand.
He expressed a strong interest in everything from the plight of the steel industry and rural access to high-speed Internet connections to research into global warming. He promised to work closely with senators in addressing each of those issues.
Some of the most pointed questions came from Senator John McCain of Arizona, who will resume the committee's chairmanship when the Republicans regain Senate control.
Mr. McCain ran against Mr. Bush for the Republican presidential nomination and has spearheaded a drive to overhaul campaign finance laws. Today he pressed Mr. Evans, who raised a record $100 million for the Bush campaign, on what he would do to make sure that the Commerce Department did not use its powers to reward major campaign contributors.
Mr. McCain warned him to avoid the kind of cloud that dogged Ronald H. Brown, President Clinton's first commerce secretary, who faced accusations that he had in effect sold seats on foreign trade trips to campaign contributors and allowed Commerce Department officials to raise political funds. The senator asked Mr. Evans to submit in writing within 30 days details of how he would prevent that sort of political activity, and he agreed to do so.
Several Democrats, especially Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, sought to elicit a commitment from Mr. Evans to allow statistical sampling to supplement last year's decennial count of the population if Census Bureau experts find that achieving an accurate tally requires it.
In November, the Clinton administration shifted the power to adjust the census from the commerce secretary to the director of the Census Bureau, arguing that the nonpolitical professionals at the bureau would be a fairer judge of whether such an adjustment was needed to correct for an undercount. Under the regulation, the director could adjust the count only if a panel of experts within the bureau so recommended. Democrats are happy with that arrangement, and would like assurances that the new administration will do nothing to overturn it.
Many Republicans, though, citing the Constitution's requirement that the census be an "actual enumeration," have argued that such an adjustment would be illegal. Some also worry that since minorities, who tend to live in Democratic areas, are the people most likely to be missed by conventional counting methods, such an adjustment might aid Democrats when new Congressional and state legislative districts are drawn.
Today Mr. Hollings teasingly urged Mr. Evans to apply the standard that the senator suggested had been adopted by the Bush camp in the long battle over the Florida election outcome.
"Our hope," Mr. Hollings said, "is that you stick with Mr. Bush's position supporting sampling and opposing hand counts." 
Mr. Evans expressed no firm stand on the issue but agreed to come back before the committee when he decided what to do.
Senators of both parties were critical of the Clinton administration's record on trade law enforcement, and urged Mr. Evans to do more.
Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia, pushed Mr. Evans to help protect the steel industry. Mr. Rockefeller, whose state is home to several of the largest steel makers, said the industry was on the verge of extinction because of what he called unfair competition from abroad. He said Mr. Gore had failed to carry West Virginia, long a Democratic state, largely because the Clinton administration had done little to help ailing steel companies and workers.
Mr. Evans promised to examine whether to impose sweeping measures to protect the industry under existing trade law.
"There is a lot of talk about the information economy," he said. "But I am not one who believes that means you turn your back on the industrial base of this economy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald L. Evans, left, commerce secretary-designate, thanked Senator Phil Gramm for introducing him to the Senate Commerce Committee. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ETHICS (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (71%); PATENTS (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; CENSUS; POPULATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ETHICS 

COMPANY: TOM BROWN INC (66%); H BROWN LTD (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); AL GORE (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%) KAHN, JOSEPH; EVANS, DONALD L; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



100 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Win a Free Book

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Watching President Clinton's 11th-hour attempt to broker a Palestinian-Israeli deal, you feel as though you're watching a high-stakes poker game in which Mr. Clinton keeps doubling the bet. It's 4 in the morning now, all the money is in the pot, the room is thick with cigar smoke and the players are on their last hand. It's winner take all, and just before the cards are put on the table, Mr. Clinton turns to George W. Bush and says, "Say, would you mind takin' my seat?"
 I'm glad Mr. Clinton has brought this Middle East peace game to a head. He has done the Lord's work, not only in clarifying what's a fair compromise but in clarifying who is up to it and who is not. In time, this will be seen as a real contribution. But for now, all this clarity is coinciding with a presidential transition, and the one thing that is not obvious is how the Bush team intends to deal with the hand it's inheriting. 
 Indeed, because foreign policy was virtually never mentioned during the campaign, and because Mr. Bush himself has no strongly expressed views, he's taking office with a vaguely defined foreign policy agenda, but with clearly defined problems. Yes, the Bushies have position papers. They have more attitude than articulated views. None of the issues they have clearly articulated views on are urgent, and on all the urgent issues they have no clearly articulated views.
 For instance, Mr. Bush favors building a national missile defense system -- but for now that is an idea for which there is no workable technology, no immediate enemy and no supportive allies. There's plenty of time to sort it out.
 On the other hand, I will give a free copy of George Bush Sr.'s memoir, "A World Transformed," to any reader who can answer these questions: What will be the Bush approach to the Middle East, and how deeply does he intend to be involved? Historically, Democratic Arabists have tended to try to manage the Middle East by resolving the Palestinian conflict, while Republican Arabists favored working through the Saudis. Which way will he lean? Either way, the Middle East that Mr. Bush inherits is likely to be a roiling mess -- one that he not only won't be able to avoid but one that -- well, if he knew what was coming he would be down in Palm Beach County right now, hand-recounting votes himself.
 What is the Bush policy on North Korea? President Clinton is leaving a deal on the table that he did not have time to consummate, by which Kim Jong Il would further constrain his missile program in return for food and other goodies from the U.S. Is the Bush team really ready to withdraw U.S. troops from Kosovo and Bosnia, at a time when our allies would totally oppose that and both countries may be starting to mend a bit? Mr. Bush has expressed a desire to be tougher toward Iraq, but the U.S. does not have a single Arab ally ready to openly cooperate with such a policy. 
 Mr. Bush has appointed proven executives -- Colin Powell, Donald Rumsfeld and Condi Rice -- to tell him what he should think on foreign policy, but none of them have wrestled closely with these issues for years, so they will have to appoint Republican foreign policy deputies to tell them what they think. And, truth be told, the Republican Party generally has done very little creative thinking on foreign policy since George Bush Sr.'s day.
 At the Congressional level, Republican foreign policy has been dominated by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman, Jesse Helms, a nasty isolationist who virtually never travels, is convinced that China is still Maoist and Russia still Marxist, and is against virtually every multilateral global institution or operation. Those Republicans who did not agree with Mr. Helms spent most of the last eight years simply snickering at the Clinton foreign policy, implying that when the Republican "grown-ups" got back in, things would be different. But few have laid out a Republican alternative to Mr. Clinton's view that America's central role today is sustaining globalization -- economically, politically and militarily. 
 This vacuum was also due to the fact that many Republican foreign policy figures wanted to get back into the new administration, and therefore were reluctant to write anything too daring or anything that would engender the wrath of Mr. Helms, who gets to confirm them.
 So the grown-ups are back, but both they and their kids will have a lot of homework to catch up on. Don't worry. They've still got two weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POKER (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (64%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (63%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); KIM JONG IL (50%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



101 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

U.S. Ex-Military Chief Presses for Nuclear Pact
Gen. John M. Shalikashvili, a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who made a comprehensive study of the nuclear test ban treaty at President Clinton's request, said the United States should ratify it if it was to mount an effective campaign against the spread of nuclear weapons. A1

Rabbis Rule on Holy Site
The chief rabbis of Israel declared that Jewish law forbids giving up Israeli sovereignty over the Temple Mount in Jerusalem, which is holy to Jews and Muslims and is at the center of the latest conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. The move adds to the pressure on Prime Minister Ehud Barak not to surrender Israeli control over the area in an agreement with the Palestinians. A6

Suspects in Cole Attack
Yemen has proof that six people in custody were involved in the attack on the American destroyer Cole in Aden in October, and officials are questioning more suspects, Interior Minister Hussein Muhammad Arab was quoted as saying. A6

Easier Breathing in Mexico City
The Mexico City Case Study, part of an M.I.T. program exploring problems of megacities in the developing world, has data suggesting Mexico City's air quality is improving. In 1992, the United Nations labeled Mexico City's air the world's worst. A1

German Minister Apologizes
Joschka Fischer, the German foreign minister and a member of the Green Party, apologized for using violence when he was a young radical militant. Five photos of him beating a police officer in 1973 were published by Stern magazine. His statement came after some conservatives called for his resignation. A8

Chinese Sect Steps Up Protests
Civil disobedience by the Falun Gong spiritual movement shows no sign of slowing and may be building. A4

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A10-15

House Shakes Up System As Senate Ponders Its Own
House Republicans made good on their pledge to curtail the power of committee barons and replaced 13 of their most senior chairmen. In the equally divided Senate, Democrats moved closer to getting an equal share of seats on committees. A1

Donald L. Evans, President-elect George W. Bush's choice for commerce secretary, received a cordial reception from senators at his confirmation hearing. A14

Senator John McCain pledged an all-out battle to force the Senate to consider campaign finance legislation right after Mr. Bush is inaugurated. A15

Senator J. Strom Thurmond, Republican of South Carolina, plans to ask Mr. Bush to appoint his son, J. Strom Thurmond Jr., the United States attorney for South Carolina. A1

New Roads and Logging Barred
President Clinton put nearly one-third of national forest land permanently off-limits to future road building and logging, covering more than 58 million acres in 39 states. A1

New Counterintelligence Post
President Clinton created a counterintelligence chief post to identify security threats and vulnerabilities. It was unclear whether President-elect George W. Bush's transition team was consulted, but the plan was said to have the support of the F.B.I. and C.I.A. directors. A1

F.B.I. Chief Ready to Stay On
Louis J. Freeh will stay on at the request of President-elect George W. Bush's camp, government officials said, though Bush aides did not offer clear confirmation. A14

Network Election Night Reports
CBS News and NBC News issued reports on election night errors made by the two networks. A10

Progress in News Strike
The Newspaper Guild and The Seattle Times reached a tentative agreement in the 45-day strike. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Inquiry Clears Surgeon Accused of Medical Errors
The State Health Department's Office of Professional Medical Conduct cleared Dr. Ehud Arbit, a neurosurgeon accused by department officials of operating on the wrong side of a patient's brain and other medical errors, and restored his license. The Health Department said it would fight his return to practice. A1

Fox Online to Scale Back
Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation is expected to cut back on original content on its Web sites and will lay off hundreds of workers. B1

Battle Over Port Authority
The Giuliani administration intensified attacks on the Port Authority, saying that the city police should take over law enforcement at Kennedy and La Guardia Airports. B1

Ferry Stranded Off New Jersey
A 118-foot ferry traveling from Manhattan to Highlands, N.J. ran aground in icy water, stranding 257 people for more than five hours. B5

Neediest Cases B4

WEEKEND E1-36; E37-48

SCIENCE/HEALTH 

Warning on AIDS Drug
Federal officials advised against prescribing the AIDS drug nevirapine for healthy health care workers stuck by needles, because of the risk of liver damage and even death. A12

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES B9

Millicent Carey McIntosh
An early feminist whose stewardship of the Brearley School and Barnard College made her a model for generations of young women who sought career and family, she was 102. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Holiday Retail Sales Lagged
Sales at stores open at least a year, a much-watched measure of industry health, rose one-tenth of 1 percent in the five weeks ended the last week of December, compared with the same period in 1999. It was the most anemic growth since March 1995. C1

A Surge in Job Cuts
American companies announced 133,713 job cuts in December, more than triple the number in November, a survey by the outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas found. The Labor Department said 375,000 Americans filed for new unemployment benefits last week, the most in two and a half years. C5

Stocks Give Back Some Gains
The Nasdaq fell 49.86 points, or 1.9 percent, to 2,566.83, while the Dow and the S.& P. 500 had smaller losses, after Wednesday's big gains. C6

George Magazine Closing Down
George, founded by John F. Kennedy Jr. in 1995, will cease publication with the March issue, Hachette Filipacchi Magazines said. C3

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Thad Cochrane joins up; the battle for Czech TV; fixing the drug import bill.

Columns: Gail Collins, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E47
TV Listings E35
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (83%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); CASE STUDIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); MOUNTAINS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); CONSERVATISM (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (63%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); EHUD BARAK (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (94%); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); GERMANY (91%); YEMEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2001 



102 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 33 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO STRENGTHENS. The euro neared a six-month high against the dollar on concerns about the health of the U.S. economy. In New York, the euro settled at 95.82 cents, up from 94.92 cents on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since July, 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



103 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: New-Home Sales Were Strong Last Year, Despite November 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
Sales of new homes for single families fell in November without straying off course to make 2000 the second-best year on record, a government report showed today.
 The 2.2 percent drop in November sales, to an annual rate of 909,000 houses, came after a 1.1 percent drop the month before, the Commerce Department said. Even so, lower mortgage rates helped push November sales up 1.6 percent from the November 1999 rate. 
 Analysts say the decision by the Federal Reserve to cut the benchmark interest rate this week should help the economy, bolster consumer confidence and buoy purchases after a December lull.
"We still expect strong numbers in the first few months of this year," said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla, N.Y.
Bloomberg News estimated that sales of new single-family homes reached 898,000 in 2000. That would be second to the record 907,000 new homes sold in 1999.
And while the November sales level was the lowest since 860,000 in August, it is up from 895,000 in November 1999.
Sales fell in three regions in November: 20 percent in the Northeast, to a 68,000-unit pace; 7.6 percent in the Midwest, to an annual rate of 133,000; and 3.3 percent in the West, to a 261,000-unit pace. Sales in the South rose 3.5 percent, to 446,000 houses at an annual rate.
The median price of a new home fell 0.1 percent in November, to $169,900, from $170,000 in October, the Commerce Department said, and the supply of new homes for sale rose to 4.2 months in November from 4.1 months in October.
The average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage fell this week to 7.07 percent, the lowest in one and a half years. That is down from last year's peak of 8.64 percent in mid-May, according to Freddie Mac, the No. 2 mortgage buyer.
With the Fed on track to cut interest rates further, mortgage rates will probably remain attractive, analysts said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%) HOUSING; SALES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



104 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Benefits of Mental Care 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "9 Million Gaining Upgraded Benefit for Mental Care" (front page, Jan. 1):
 Treating the so-called worried well is not expensive, as claimed by the insurance industry, when you are heading off stresses that can drive cardiovascular disease, asthma attacks, some cancers and other conditions requiring costly hospital stays. 
 Significant economies may be produced through parity for addiction disease. While untreated, these patients dearly cost the community in repeated health care, accidents, unemployment and prisons; when treated, many of them can be headed off at the pass.
Nationally, treatment for alcoholics and those addicted to other drugs has for the last five years been rendered managed care-friendly by the American Society for Addiction Medicine -- and it's a bargain.

NANCY BRACH
Montclair, N.J., Jan. 1, 2001

The writer is vice president of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence of New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (87%); CANCER (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (72%); HOSPITALS (70%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (68%); INSURANCE (56%); ASTHMA (56%) MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL ON ALCOHOLISM & DRUG DEPENDENCE (56%)

PERSON: BRACH, NANCY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



105 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Change Is in the Air as Thailand Prepares to Vote 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
Strange things have been happening in Thailand's deeply corrupt electoral process as the nation prepares to vote for a new Parliament on Saturday.
 Plenty of cash is still being handed out, but it is mostly hidden. Some candidates are buying votes with trips to the beach, scholarships, village development projects or temple donations with strings attached. One candidate hid so much fertilizer -- a gift for rural voters -- on the top floor of a building that cracks appeared in its walls. 
 The leading candidate for prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, has been charged by a countercorruption commission of hiding his assets by transferring stocks to his household help.
Things used to be a lot easier for what one newspaper here calls Thailand's "election animals." Strict new rules have been put in place to combat corruption and vote-buying, and candidates are fighting back with imaginative new tricks. It is a risky game. If they are caught, they could be summarily eliminated and barred from office.
But more is at stake than the shape of the next government. The election is the latest and fiercest battleground in Thailand's slow, hard-fought democratic revolution.
The country's efforts at reform have put it at the forefront of a difficult and uneven shift throughout the region toward more democracy and openness, in politics and government as well as in economics. The hierarchical, father-knows-best approach sometimes called "Asian values" is on the defensive.
"You can see the democratic trend all the way from South Korea to Taiwan to Thailand to the Philippines to Indonesia, and then across to South Asia in places like Bangladesh," said Muthiah Alagappa, a senior fellow at the East-West Center in Honolulu. "The wave in Asia is towards more open political systems. But the movement is going to be gradual and contested and with some reversals."
Some see Thailand as a test for peaceful reform in the region.
"Everyone is watching whether this election will produce a legitimate government and what will happen next," said Kavi Chongkitavarn, a political analyst at the English-language daily The Nation.
In almost every arena, Thailand is changing -- or trying to change. A liberal Constitution passed in the wake of the regional economic crisis of 1997 calls for far-reaching reforms with an election commission, an anti-corruption commission, a freedom of information act and a soon-to-be activated commission on human rights.
The country's long tradition of top-down government is also being challenged by an increasingly vigorous civil society as individuals and groups insist on being heard.
The regional trend has its recent roots in Asia's decade-long economic boom in the 1980's and 1990's, when authoritarian rule came under challenge as Western wealth and ideas flooded in. In Thailand and Indonesia, resistance grew to the political dominance of the military.
The changes received a second push from the crash of 1997, which spurred political change -- or at least political challenge -- around Asia. Unaccountable governments that had bought social peace with growing prosperity suddenly found their legitimacy questioned.
"All the bad luck that has happened to Thailand may have been blessings in disguise; it woke people up," said Sunai Phasuk, a political scientist at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok, referring to the military crackdowns of the 1970's and of 1992, as well as to the economic shock of three years ago. It was external pressures like these that forced former President Suharto from office in Indonesia in 1998, emboldening the opposition and shaking his one-man rule.
Though other countries may be more peaceful, every one of them is feeling the undercurrents of change.
"All the countries of the region are going through this process," said William J. Klausner, a political scientist at Chulalongkorn University. "It's just a question of where you are on the spectrum."
In Malaysia, the entrenched and overbearing government now must take into account an invigorated political opposition and nongovernmental groups that are making themselves heard as never before in the 19-year rule of its patriarch, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad.
Singapore, as always, has things well under control, but its always calculating leaders are tinkering, aware that they must loosen things up to stay at the forefront of the new fast-moving world economy.
Vietnam is changing despite the hesitancy of its leaders. Still Marxist, still hidebound, they have committed themselves to the increased transparency and accountability that are the price of entry into the world marketplace. The original domino in the cold war, it now faces the prospect of becoming, in the words of Mr. Sunai, one of the new "dominos of democracy."
Laos, Cambodia and Myanmar -- the former Burma -- with their strongman governments, have two options: liberalize or find themselves being left behind, poorer and poorer, relics of the past.
The Philippines, as always, is a special case. The region's democratic standard-bearer, its uneven fortunes have sometimes been a justification, sometimes a rebuke to Southeast Asia's strongmen. It is now demonstrating how messy democracy can be with President Joseph Estrada in the midst of an impeachment trial on corruption charges.
In Thailand, almost every institution is being scrutinized and challenged, from the judiciary to the police to the Ministry of Interior to the Buddhist establishment to the corrupt and bloated government bureaucracy.
Small skirmishes fill the newspapers here almost every day: parents fighting against favoritism in school admissions, patients suing doctors for malpractice, farmers protesting against dam projects, villagers complaining about factories' pollution.
And the old guard fights back; the stakes are the wealth and power structure of a nation.
"The old system is not just going to go away," Mr. Klausner said. "They are fighting every day. That's the excitement of it. A lot of people are frustrated because the game has not been won, but we are in the midst of a process, and it's a struggle."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thaksin Shinawatra, the leading candidate for prime minister of Thailand, campaigned in Bangkok yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTION LAW (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); LIBERALISM (71%); TRENDS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%) ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (79%) THAILAND (94%); ASIA (93%); TAIWAN (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%) THAILAND

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



106 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Stocks Are Down for First Week of Year as Rate-Cut Rally Fades

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Stocks plunged yesterday, just two days after a euphoric rally that sent the Nasdaq composite index up 14 percent, as investors once more faced the reality of slowing growth in the economy and in corporate profits.
 While investors were cheered Wednesday by the news that the Federal Reserve was unexpectedly cutting interest rates, they were depressed today by the news that the job market was weaker than it had been earlier in the year and that more companies were issuing earnings warnings. 
 As a result of today's sell-off, the leading market indicators finished the first week of the year in minus territory, which is how they ended 2000.
Although the Fed reduced short-term interest rates by half a percentage point, it is likely to take some time before that rate cut and others that are expected to follow will provide enough lift to offset the weight of the sagging economy, which will be in the news regularly with each month's data. 
And the hope of many investors that the central bank will bail out the economy could lead to a lot of daily disappointments. While most analysts say they believe that Fed policy makers will try to avoid a sharp economic downturn, too many investors may believe the central bank can do this quickly. Indeed, some investors appeared to be betting that the central bank will lower its federal funds target rate to 5.25 percent, from its current 6 percent, by the end of this quarter.
"While the Fed is going to be successful, it is going to take three to six months to know that it is working," said John Manley, senior equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney. And during that time, he added, "there will be days that hope springs eternal and days of despair."
The technology-heavy Nasdaq finished the day down 159.18 points, or 6.2 percent, at 2,407.65. For the week, it was off 2.5 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 250.40 points, or 2.3 percent, to 10,662.01, and was down 1.2 percent for the week. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 34.99 points, or 2.6 percent, to 1,298.35, and was off 1.7 percent for the week.
The sell-off came on volume just under the average for last year, as 1.43 billion shares exchanged hands on the New York Stock Exchange. On Thursday, exchange volume was 2.13 billion shares, surpassing 2 billion for the first time.
Among the stocks leading the major indexes lower were the usual technology suspects, including Cisco Systems, Oracle, Qualcomm, JDS Uniphase, Veritas Software, Hewlett-Packard, Intel and EMC. Also falling were General Motors, Caterpillar, J. P. Morgan Chase, Boeing and Wal-Mart Stores.
Yesterday's sobering economic news was that new job creation in December was weaker than expected. The Labor Department reported that nonfarm payrolls rose 105,000 in December, with 56,000 of them government jobs.
Growth of private jobs in the fourth quarter, at 0.2 percent, was the slowest it has been since the third quarter of 1992, a year and a half after the end of the 1990-1991 recession. Manufacturing jobs declined by 62,000 and were down 1 percent over the last year.
On top of this came more corporate earnings warnings, which, since October, have pulled the forecast for fourth-quarter earnings down to 4.2 percent from 15.6 percent for the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500 index, according to First Call/ Thomson Financial. For the first quarter of this year, the earnings growth forecast is down to 5.2 percent from 14.2 percent.
Nordstrom, the retailer, said that its fourth-quarter profits would be about half of what Wall Street analysts had forecast, which is 38 cents a share. Shares of Nordstrom fell $1.50, to $18.88. Next Level, which makes broadband communications systems, said its fourth-quarter loss, which was forecast at 12 cents a share, would be bigger. Its stock rallied late in the day to end down just 6 cents at $10.75.
Bank of America and other banks fell because of concerns about the fate of their loans to California utility companies. The current electricity crisis, which the utility companies have said may force them to go bankrupt, is threatening these banks with losses.
In a statement after rumors of losses were reported yesterday morning, Bank of America said: "We know of no basis to support speculative rumors about our operations. We are conducting business as usual. The company has not experienced any significant losses in derivatives or other trading activities." The stock finished down $3.50 at $48.
In the bond market, the weakness of the economy seemed to outweigh any negative news on inflation that might be found in the December jobs report. While job growth was weak, the unemployment rate remained unchanged at 4 percent, near its 30-year low, and hourly earnings rose 0.4 percent, or 5 cents. "These still rather moderate inflationary and wage pressures will ease in the not too distant future as the result of a slowing economy," said Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Fleming Asset Management.
The price of the 10-year note rose 28/32, to 106 9/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.92 percent from 5.03 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 20/32, to 112 15/32. The bond's yield declined to 5.40 percent from 5.44 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C3) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: SYMANTEC CORP (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (53%); INTEL CORP (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (50%); BOEING CO (50%); QUALCOMM INC (50%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: SYMC (NASDAQ) (55%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (53%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); WMT (NYSE) (50%); JDU (TSX) (50%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (50%); BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (50%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (53%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



107 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Labor Market Remains Tight, Despite Slowing Economy 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
The sharply slowing economy still has not done much to weaken the tightest labor market in 30 years.
 Even as manufacturing companies cut both jobs and workers' hours last month, companies in the much larger service sector continued to add to their record-high payrolls, allowing the unemployment rate to hold steady in December at 4 percent, the Labor Department reported yesterday. 
 But the pace of job creation clearly slowed in the spring of 2000, and remains much more sluggish than it was earlier in the year and during much of the latter half of the 1990's, the government disclosed in its closely watched monthly employment report. And the job market could deteriorate further in the months ahead. 
"These data really do indicate an economy that continues to decelerate rapidly," said Richard B. Berner, the chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Apparel, automobile and metal-making companies all cut payrolls sharply last month, as did temporary-help firms, which are typically among the first to react to an economic slowdown as companies shed part-time workers.
Manufacturing employment fell by 62,000 in December, raising the total loss for the year to 178,000. Even the once red-hot service sector is no longer expanding at the pace it had been. 
Across the private sector, companies added only about 4,000 jobs a day during the last nine months of 2000, half the pace during the previous year.
For now, however, the unemployment rate remains near a three-decade low, as it has for more than a year. Hourly wages responded to the continued tightness last month by accelerating, helping prevent workers from losing much ground even though they logged fewer hours.
"We're pretty close to full employment," said Lakshman Achuthan, the managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute in New York, even if companies are pulling fewer new people into the work force than they were a year ago.
Total nonfarm employment increased 105,000 last month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said, with less than half of the gain coming in the private sector, which is much more sensitive to ups and downs in the business cycle. The increase in government payrolls reversed a similar-size drop in November, to a revised gain in total jobs of 59,000, and most analysts dismissed it as insignificant. 
The jobs report came two days after the Federal Reserve made a surprise cut in interest rates of half a percentage point. Analysts said the jobs data underscored the degree to which the rate cut was an attempt to lift the sagging confidence of investors and consumers and to provide a stimulus for the shrinking manufacturing sector.
The growth in hourly wages last month -- up 4.8 percent on an annual basis -- raises the potential of a worrisome combination of rising inflationary pressures and slower growth, which could complicate the efforts of the Fed to cut interest rates again in coming months to restart the economic engine.
Investors, fearful that the slowing economy will hammer profit margins early this year, seemed to show some doubts about whether the Fed will be able to be as aggressive in cutting rates as they had believed earlier this week. Yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 250 points, to 10,662.01, and the Nasdaq composite index plunged 6.2 percent, to 2,407.65.
But analysts now consider inflation a far less potent threat than recession. The price of commodities like oil and lumber, as well as imported goods, has fallen in recent months, and the decline in the average workweek last month -- to 34.1 hours, from 34.3 -- meant that average weekly wages actually fell slightly. A series of winter storms played a role in the reduction in hours, economists said.
The wage statistics cover so-called production employees, who account for about four-fifths of the nation's work force.
More broadly, the pace of job creation looks a lot as it did in both 1995 and 1989, and the Fed is now trying to ensure that the coming months resemble the slowdown in growth of the mid-1990's rather than the recession that began in 1990. Today, as during those earlier periods, private-sector job growth has fallen by about half during a single year.
In 1989, after job growth slowed, it fell in 1990 and 1991 and did not fully recover until 1993. After the 1995 "soft landing," by contrast, corporate investments in new technology and consumers' enthusiasm for new cars, appliances and computers helped job creation quickly recover.
The Fed rate cut this week came after a weak holiday shopping season and a sharp falloff in the growth of corporate investment spending caused Alan Greenspan and his colleagues at the central bank to worry that the economy was weaker than the unemployment rate and other lagging indicators had suggested.
In recent weeks, for example, large companies like General Motors, Office Depot and Whirlpool have announced plans to lay off workers or to reduce employment through attrition. The bulk of those cuts are expected to come during 2001. Across the country last month, companies announced plans for 134,000 layoffs, the highest number since Challenger, Gray & Christmas, a job placement firm in Chicago, began compiling such data in 1993.
"There are some weaknesses that will be showing up later" in the unemployment rate, said Sung Won Sohn, the chief economist for Wells Fargo.
Some analysts are also concerned that a statistical quirk may be veiling the job market's true condition. To account for job creation at new companies -- which are difficult to track month to month -- the government uses older data to estimate what happened most recently. But because many technology start-ups have cut jobs recently and new firms are struggling to receive financing, the Labor Department could be overestimating job growth.
"Job growth may actually have stopped in the last three months," said Dean Baker, the co-director of the Center for Economic Policy and Research in Washington.
Still, the Clinton administration said the report -- the final one to be released on its watch -- was confirmation of an unprecedented boom, in which unemployment has fallen from more than 7 percent to 4 percent and most workers have received raises.
"We can boast of broadly shared prosperity," said Alexis M. Herman, the departing secretary of labor. "This is a healthy slowdown. We've gone from spectacular growth to growth that is probably more stable and more sustainable."
The unemployment rates for teenagers and minorities are near all-time lows, and the number of people who want but cannot find full-time work has dropped to 13 million, from 20 million, Ms. Herman added.
President-elect George W. Bush has warned, however, that the economy may be on the verge of a recession, and he has said he wants to pursue his proposed tax cut aggressively in part to prevent a downturn. Mr. Bush also praised the Fed's rate cut this week as recognition of economic weakness.
"The economy is slowing down," Ari Fleischer, Mr. Bush's chief spokesman, said in a briefing in Washington yesterday. "We hope that the president is right and that there will be continued economic growth."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Labor Picture in December"Graphs track Unemployment and employment since Jan. DEMOGRAPHICSWhite -- 3.5Black -- 7.6Hispanic* -- 5.7Men 20 and over -- 3.4Women 20 and over -- 3.4Teenagers (16-19) -- 13.1 OUT OF WORK (millions)Total -- 5.7Lost job -- 2.5Left job -- 0.7Returning to labor market -- 1.9New to labor market -- 0.5 TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmNov. -- 131.8Dec. -- 132.0 GoodsNov. -- 25.6Dec. -- 25.6 ServicesNov. -- 106.2Dec. -- 106.4 AgricultureNov. -- 3.2Dec. -- 3.3 SHARE OF POPULATION(percent)Work forceNov. -- 64.3Dec. -- 64.5 Labor force (workers and unemployed)Nov. -- 67.0Dec. -- 67.1 All figures are seasonally adjusted. *Hispanics can be of any race.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INFLATION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



108 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Troubles Pile Up for California's Utilities 

 BODY:
California's troubled utilities took more hits yesterday from Washington judges, California regulators and Wall Street bond companies.
 Also yesterday, the Energy Department extended an emergency order requiring power producers to supply California's electricity market through Jan. 10. 
 The order requires California to certify within a week that it has taken steps to reduce electricity demand by 5 percent during peak demand periods. It also requires that any negotiated price above $64 a megawatt-hour be submitted to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for review to assure that the price is "just and reasonable."
The United States Court of Appeals in Washington rejected an attempt by Southern California Edison to force the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to limit the wholesale prices that it pays power producers for electricity. The three-judge panel said the company "has not demonstrated that its right to this relief is clear and indisputable."
Although the state approved immediate rate increases on Thursday of about 10 percent, the amount was about half what the companies had asked for. That action reverberated in the bond markets, as Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch Inc. downgraded the credit ratings of PG&E and Southern California's parent, Edison International. The two utilities have warned that they could soon file for bankruptcy protection if the situation does not improve.
Edison also said yesterday that it would lay off 1,450 more workers over several months to save money. Last month, it eliminated 400 jobs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (92%); ENERGY REGULATION (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); JUDGES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); WHOLESALERS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); WHOLESALE PRICES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); APPEALS COURTS (55%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CREDIT 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (90%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (68%); EDISON INTERNATIONAL (67%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (91%) PG&E CORP; FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION; EDISON INTERNATIONAL INC; SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO 

TICKER: EIX (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (68%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (68%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (68%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (68%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (68%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (67%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (67%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



109 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Queens-Midtown Ferry Service To End in March, Company Says 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
Citing low ridership, New York Waterway announced yesterday that it would end ferry service between Queens and Midtown Manhattan.
 In an advisory distributed to afternoon rush passengers, the company said that it would discontinue shuttle bus service to and from the ferry's terminal at East 34th Street on Feb. 2, with the ferry itself ceasing operation after March 2. 
 "We have a route that's not doing anything," said Pat Smith, a spokesman for New York Waterway, the country's largest ferry operator. "The ridership is not there." 
The company runs 23 boats along 10 commuter routes, mostly between the World Financial Center or Midtown Manhattan and New Jersey cities like Weehawken and Hoboken. The commuter ferries carry about 32,000 people a day, Mr. Smith said.
During rush hour, Mr. Smith said, most of New York Waterway's boats operate at capacity, ranging from 64 to 396 passengers per ride. But the Queens route carries only 135 people each day, an average of 10 passengers per trip, he said. The Queens line, which follows the Queens Midtown Tunnel above water, has run between Hunters Point in Queens and East 34th Street since 1994 and has never been profitable, he said. The company plans to continue and expand service on its other commuter routes, he said.
Mr. Smith said that company officials had been trying to figure out what to do about the Queens service for months, but reached a decision just yesterday. "To be honest, this is just looking at the economics and the resources available," he said.
New York Waterway will work with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to find a new operator for the service, Mr. Smith said. Representatives at the Port Authority did not return telephone calls yesterday afternoon.
New York Waterway might "get back in there with a smaller, faster boat" from Queens to Pier 11 near Wall Street as an experiment some day, Mr. Smith said, adding that that was "not a promise." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (95%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); SHUTTLE BUS & VANPOOL SERVICES (78%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (52%) FERRIES 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK WATERWAY (CO) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

PERSON: CARDWELL, DIANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



110 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1037 words

PERSON: SILA M. CALDERON 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A New Governor Ushers in a New Era in Puerto Rico

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R. 

 BODY:
SILA M. CALDERON is the first to admit that as a young adult she was not very fond of politics. In fact, she was not very fond of work.
 "Girls of certain families didn't have to work," said Ms. Calderon, the daughter of a wealthy entrepreneur whose holdings included ice cream factories and hotels. "My American friends would work as waitresses in the summer and I would go off to Europe with my parents." 
 Today, Ms. Calderon is both a shrewd politician and a bit of a workaholic. She believes that her parents, who taught her that a lady should look nice and tend to the home, would be proud, though her life bears little resemblance to the traditional homemaker role they had envisioned for her. After all, she did make history this week.
On Tuesday, Ms. Calderon was inaugurated as Puerto Rico's first female governor.
It was a day that brought thousands of supporters to Old San Juan's streets. Choirs sang. The presidents of Haiti, Venezuela, the Dominican Republic and Panama looked on. 
But after the musicians packed up and the dignitaries had been whisked away following her swearing-in ceremony, it seemed only fitting that Ms. Calderon would turn to her parents. And she did just that with a solitary stop on her way to La Fortaleza, the governor's headquarters and mansion where she will live and work during her four-year term.
"I went to their graves and just asked them to help me," Ms. Calderon said.
She will need all the wisdom and strength she can muster to tackle the numerous challenges ahead. Ms. Calderon, who ran on the Popular Democratic Party ticket, has already angered some politicians in Washington by advocating that the United States Navy immediately halt its bombing practices on Vieques island. She also opposes United States statehood for Puerto Rico, which her predecessor, Pedro Rossello, endorsed. And she comes after a scandal-prone government that has left many citizens here weary and distrustful of their leaders.
Ms. Calderon, 58, also knows that supporters of the two losing political parties will be scrutinizing her progress on her promises to deliver better services to the poor, upgrade the island's water system and general infrastructure and improve Puerto Rico's image.
"I think the image has nothing to do with the reality and I think that is one of my biggest challenges," Governor Calderon said.
She said Puerto Rico, a self-governing commonwealth of the United States, suffered from misperceptions about its economic stability and its patriotism. "We are proud of our citizenship and share the same love of democracy and liberty," she said. "At the same time we have our own culture we want to protect."
She said she would personally take those messages to Wall Street and Washington as an "ambassador" for Puerto Rico.
BORN in San Juan in 1942, Governor Calderon grew up steeped in the history of her native island. Her father would spend hours recounting to her Puerto Rican history and his admiration for the Popular Democratic Party and its message of democracy and social responsibility. And though he also emphasized a traditional role for women, it is perhaps not surprising that she was drawn to public life after graduating from Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y., where she received a bachelor's degree in government. 
Her first real introduction to government came in 1973 while attending the Graduate School of Public Administration at the University of Puerto Rico. Her labor relations professor liked her work so much that when he left during the semester to become Puerto Rico's secretary of labor he tapped her as his executive assistant. It was a turning point that introduced her to public service.
Over the next nearly three decades she would weave in and out of both the private and public sector, working her way up to vice president at Citibank and serving for eight years as mayor of San Juan, the job she left to become governor.
Because of what her parents taught her about history and social responsibility, "when I was asked to go into public service, I accepted." The mother of two grown daughters and a son (she also has five stepchildren from her 22-year second marriage) wants to lead Puerto Rico into a new era of respect and prosperity. But in the first days of tackling the issues of governing here, she and her staff have been distracted by more basic duties. They have had to figure out how to work the computers and copy machines in their new offices.
Less than 48 hours after her inauguration, Ms. Calderon discovered that the transition of power from Governor Rossello, who departed without appointing anyone to assist with the transition, will be far from smooth. The staff could not find computer codes. A news conference on Thursday was delayed by more than a half hour because no one could figure out how to make copies of news releases. And Ms. Calderon left one visitor waiting for three hours because administrative glitches threw her schedule off.
Yet ever mindful of her image, the new governor did her best to stay on time and on point during one important photo opportunity. As her staff worked nervously behind the scenes on the headquarters logistics, Ms. Calderon spent the early afternoon on Thursday air-kissing and shaking hands with local politicians at the governor's annual New Year's protocol greeting at La Fortaleza. Now, with her ceremonial duties tended to for the moment, the governor wants to get on with, as she puts it, being a "public administrator more than a politician."
She never liked the latter title to begin with. "Politics has lost its prestige and doesn't have a good name to it," she said. 
She has drafted several laws intended to stem corruption, which she hopes will restore the image of government, at least in Puerto Rico. "We deserve a government that's clean, open and honest just like we are," she said.
Also not lost on her is that among the thousands of supporters who lined Old San Juan's streets to view her inauguration were young girls who were seeing a new day in more ways than one at the birth of the new millennium.
"When I was a little girl everybody who had power were men," Governor Calderon said. "Now girls know that it is very normal for power to be shared with men and women."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sila M. Calderon became governor of Puerto Rico on Tuesday. (Laura Magruder for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); FAMILY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US TERRITORIES (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); MUSIC (67%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); BOMBINGS (62%); ICE CREAM MFG (57%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

CALDERON, SILA MARIA (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PUERTO RICO (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%) PUERTO RICO

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (Foreign) 

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



111 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: New Window on Tiananmen Square Crackdown 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Throughout the day on May 17, 1989, with student-led protests occupying Beijing's Tiananmen Square and paralyzing much of the country, several of China's most powerful figures dropped by the home of the most powerful of them all, Deng Xiaoping, to discuss what to do.
 "If things continue like this, we could even end up under house arrest," Deng warned his old comrades, according to a book of documents that its editors describe as classified Communist Party archives smuggled out of China. "After thinking long and hard about this, I've concluded that we should bring in the People's Liberation Army and declare martial law in Beijing."
 The documents, which number in the hundreds and have been deemed authentic by several experts, appear in "The Tiananmen Papers," which will be published on Monday. Excerpts, Page A6. They depict how China's rulers decided to order a military crackdown that in June 1989 killed hundreds and put China's present leadership in place. They also suggest how deeply divided the top leaders were and how close the country came to embracing political change rather than crushing it. 
Provided to American scholars by a shadowy Chinese figure who says he represents people in the Communist Party favoring more rapid change, the materials paint a vivid picture of the leadership during the Tiananmen crisis. While largely confirming impressions of how the crackdown came about, the documents detail internal arguments, the fears of the elderly leaders and the ways officials used those fears.
Inevitably, a central question is how certain one can be of the authenticity of the documents, which were provided as computer printouts. They include Politburo minutes, army and intelligence reports and memorandums of meetings that Deng held with his comrades.
Several times in recent decades, Chinese documents initially hailed as important were later discredited. For example, a supposed inside account of the 1971 fall of Mao's designated successor, Lin Biao, was published to great interest in 1983 but is now of dubious credibility.
But in interviews, the scholars who have pored over the Tiananmen documents and helped translate and edit them -- and who have intensely questioned the Chinese man who handed them over -- have expressed the firm conviction that the material is authentic. Even so, they said, they are less certain that it accurately captures the reality of the period.
"I believe that the documents are authentic," said James R. Lilley, the American ambassador during the protests and one of few experts besides the volume's editors to have examined the materials. "But I don't rule out the possibility that people might have played with the language to score certain points. In addition, the documents themselves contain material that is not true. For example, the reports on the C.I.A. are exaggerated and inflammatory to appeal to the paranoia of the Chinese leadership."
The documents indicate that the officials who formally held the top posts -- the members of the Politburo Standing Committee -- were split two to two, with one abstention, over whether to use force to end the protests. Without a majority, the hard-liners lacked standing to call in the troops.
But, according to the documents, the deadlock was broken by Deng and his octogenarian comrades, who had retired from most of their official posts but still held ultimate power. In this sense, the papers suggest an important conclusion, surmised before but now emerging more forcefully: that had it not been for Deng and the other elders, the moderates might have prevailed in the power struggle, averting bloodshed and inaugurating a period of greater political openness and economic liberalization.
There seems little doubt that the documents, which are to be published in Chinese in April and sold in places like Hong Kong, will slip into China and stir intense interest there, despite an almost complete ban on public discussion of the Tiananmen incident. Disclosure of the documents could erode the authority of two top Chinese leaders.
One is Jiang Zemin, China's president and Communist Party general secretary, who was awarded the top posts after Deng and the elders dismissed the former party chief, Zhao Ziyang, for opposing martial law. The other is Li Peng, now the chairman of China's Parliament and the second-ranking figure in the Communist hierarchy, who was prime minister in 1989. Mr. Li in particular is depicted in the documents as manipulating information to encourage a crackdown.
"The hard-liners that pushed the decision to use force, especially Li Peng, are still vulnerable on these issues, and these papers show how they acted," Ambassador Lilley said. "They show Li to be this guy with very little tolerance of dissent."
The Tiananmen protests began in mid-April 1989, at first to mourn the death of Hu Yaobang, a former party leader and a symbol of political reform. The mourning turned into vast demonstrations for a free press, more open and representative government, a crackdown on corruption and inflation, and independent labor unions.
The translated collection of documents is being published by PublicAffairs, a nonfiction house in New York. The material was provided by a man going by a pseudonym, Zhang Liang, who has not disclosed his real name, former position or present whereabouts. He said in an interview that his purpose was to stimulate a reassessment inside China about Tiananmen, which is officially branded a criminal uprising.
He says he is a party member who, with his friends, has tried to have the official judgment on Tiananmen reconsidered, which they believe essential if China is to become more democratic. But having been rebuffed in that effort, they decided to get the materials published elsewhere. 
"To publish in the United States was our last choice, which we made only when there were no other options," Mr. Zhang said. He would provide no details on how the work was assembled or brought out of China.
"We believe that only the Communist Party has the ability in China to carry out political reform," Mr. Zhang continued. "In this sense we are not dissidents trying to operate from outside the system." He compared his collaborators to people like Boris N. Yeltsin, a Communist who eventually helped bring down the Soviet system. 
The material covers the six weeks of the Tiananmen crisis and the period immediately after the movement was suppressed. It offers a portrait of the personalities of some top leaders, the questions and fears that obsessed them, their style of debate.
Deng, China's supreme leader, who died in 1997, comes across as both infuriated and tormented by the protests, which he saw as deeply damaging to his modernization strategy. According to the documents, he often voiced the opinion that the students were being manipulated by a "tiny minority" whose secret, unstated goal was the overthrow of Communism. Deng seemed to believe this minority was backed by outside countries, especially the United States. 
"Some Western countries use things like 'human rights' or like saying the socialist system is irrational or illegal, to criticize us," Deng is quoted as saying on June 2, as leaders made plans to use force, "but what they're really after is our sovereignty."
Death estimates are far lower in the documents than some foreign observers believe. Two days after the crackdown, Mr. Li is quoted as telling the elders that about 23 soldiers and 200 civilians had been killed; foreign estimates ranged from several hundred to several thousand or more.
The documents depict the party elders losing faith in Mr. Zhao and discussing various candidates to replace him. Early on, they indicate, Deng seemed to favor Li Ruihuan, a moderate with a reputation as open-minded about political and economic change. But other senior figures are quoted as favoring Mr. Jiang, the party secretary of Shanghai, whom they praise for his resolute and hard-line stance in closing down what was then China's boldest newspaper.
Deng, who is depicted as the key figure but also as deferential to other elders, apparently allowed himself to be convinced.
"Comrades Chen Yun and Xiannian and I all lean toward Comrade Jiang Zemin for general secretary," Deng is quoted as saying later. "What do the rest of you think?"
The documents show the rest of the elders readily agreeing, and that apparently is how Mr. Jiang came to vault over many more senior people to be China's top leader today.
Andrew J. Nathan, a Columbia University political scientist and the volume's main editor, collaborated with Perry Link, a literature scholar at Princeton University, and Orville Schell, a writer on Chinese affairs who is now dean of the Journalism School at the University of California at Berkeley. The three examined the documents over many months.
One cause of concern was the form of the materials provided by Mr. Zhang -- computer printouts rather than originals. They also lack the incomplete sentences, hesitations and interruptions typical of real conversations. As is standard with such Chinese documents, they appear to have been edited.
But Mr. Schell and the other scholars list reasons that convinced them of the collection's genuineness. Among these are Chinese intelligence reports on closed-door meetings of Western experts.
Mr. Nathan and Mr. Lilley both said they had been able to track down some of the specialists referred to in the documents and verify the reports.

GRAPHIC: Photo: On the night of June 3-4, 1989, troops moved in to take control of Tiananmen Square and end weeks of pro-democracy rallies. Hundreds of civilians were killed, crushed by armored vehicles or shot. Here, protesters carrying a wounded man flee the soldiers. (Peter Charlesworth/Saba)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); HOUSE ARREST (71%); SMUGGLING (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



112 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Joint Project by American And Pilots Comes Undone
A joint effort by American Airlines and its pilots union to combat fatigue in the cockpit has collapsed in a dispute over a federal guideline limiting pilots' flying time, the union says.
 The dispute is focused on a nearly completed training video for American's 11,000 pilots on fatigue. Pilot fatigue is being considered as one of the possible causes of the crash of American Airlines flight 1420 in Little Rock, Ark., in June 1999. Page A11. 

New-Home Sales Drop in November
Sales of new single-family homes fell 2.2 percent in November, to an annual rate of 909,000 houses, the Commerce Department reported. Even so, lower mortgage rates helped push November sales up 1.6 percent from the November 1999 rate. Home sales for the year 2000 are expected to be slightly lower than the record of 907,000 sold in 1999. C3.

Delta Warns of Profit Shortfall
Hurt by winter storms and a pilot slowdown, Delta Air Lines warned that its fourth-quarter earnings would fall short of Wall Street expectations. It said that earnings would be 55 cents to 65 cents a share, below analysts' expectations of 81 cents a share. C2.

Philadelphia Inquirer Settles Suit
The Philadelphia Inquirer announced that it had settled a libel lawsuit brought two years ago by a reporter who said the newspaper's top editor had defamed him. The reporter, Ralph Cipriano, was dismissed by the newspaper shortly after he filed the lawsuit. Terms of the settlement were not released. Mr. Cipriano had asked for $50,000 in damages. A9.

Belgian Software Maker Plans Cuts
Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products, the troubled software maker, said it would lay off 1,200 people, or 20 percent of its worldwide staff, in an effort to stay afloat. Also, a court in its hometown of Ieper in West Flanders granted Lernout & Hauspie conditional protection from bankruptcy for six months. C2.

Bertelsmann Taps New Music Chief
Bertelsmann, the German media giant, has named Rolf Schmidt-Holtz the new chief executive of its music arm, BMG Entertainment, an appointment that could aid a potential merger with the EMI Group of Britain. Mr. Schmidt-Holtz, 52, left, a former journalist, will assume the helm in place of Rudi Gassner, who was to have taken over the division this week but died of a heart attack on Dec. 23. BMG's artists include Carlos Santana and Christina Aguilera. C2.

Bank of America Leads PG&E Credit
Bank of America was the lead bank for a $1 billion line of credit in October for PG&E, the troubled California utility, the Loan Pricing Corporation said. Its shares fell $3.81, or 7 percent, to $47.69, on concern about its utility loan exposure. The bank said it remained comfortable with credit quality for 2001 and was conducting business as usual. C2.

Stiffer Regulations on Gene Patents
New guidelines aimed at stopping companies from making frivolous attempts to patent genes before they really have any use for them were issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. The rules were intended to help end what has become an acrimonious debate on patenting genes, a multimillion-dollar business for many companies. C3.

Hostile Bid for Willamette Extended
Weyerhaeuser, a timber and paper business, extended its $5.4 billion bid for its smaller rival, Willamette Industries, until Feb. 1, after its $48-a-share offer fell short of the majority needed for a hostile takeover. Weyerhaeuser said 48 percent of the target's shares had been tendered. Takeover experts viewed the move as positive for a future friendly deal between the two companies but said Weyerhaeuser would still have to sweeten its bid. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,662.01 down 250.40Nasdaq composite -- 2,407.65 down 159.1810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.92% down 0.11The euro -- $0.9582 up 0.0090The dollar -- 115.98 yen up 0.27 Graph tracks new-home sales since 1999.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LIBEL & SLANDER (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MERGERS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); RECORD REVENUES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); WRITERS (70%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (63%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); EXECUTIVES (61%); DEATHS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (85%); EMI GROUP LTD (83%); LERNOUT & HAUSPIE SPEECH PRODUCTS USA INC (81%); NUANCE COMMUNICATIONS INC (81%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (72%); REUTERS LOAN PRICING CORP (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: NUAN (NASDAQ) (81%); DAL (NYSE) (72%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: CHRISTINA AGUILERA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



113 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home; 
Out of Sight

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
The district attorney of Kings County (Brooklyn), N.Y., Charles J. Hynes, has for 10 years run a program that diverts nonviolent drug offenders from prison to treatment: a tough residential regimen of up to two years. It has been a great success. Those who complete the program get into renewed trouble with the law at half the rate of other drug offenders. 
 Congress came close last month to authorizing federal grants for drug treatment alternatives on that model. A bill sponsored by two Republicans, Orrin Hatch and Strom Thurmond, and a Democrat, Charles E. Schumer, passed the Senate; another passed the House with the support of such conservatives as Bob Barr of Georgia. But the two versions were not reconciled before Congress adjourned. 
 Given that support for drug treatment alternatives, District Attorney Hynes was troubled when he learned that John Ashcroft, George W. Bush's choice for attorney general, had spoken against the idea. Senator Ashcroft told a conservative think tank in 1997:
"A government which takes the resources that we would devote toward the interdiction of drugs and converts them to treatment resources, and instead of saying 'Just say no' says 'Just say maybe' or 'Just don't inhale' . . . is a government that accommodates us at our lowest and least."
Senator Ashcroft thus scorned a policy that has the support of men as conservative as Strom Thurmond and Bob Barr. His position, on this as on so many issues, was out of sight on the far right of our politics.
How would he as attorney general carry out a law, if Congress now passes it, to aid drug treatment alternatives as more effective and more economical than prison? District Attorney Hynes told me, "I would hope he would rethink his position."
The same question arises on other issues. How would he enforce the law against disruption of clinics that provide abortion, when he has said that more than anything else he would like to forbid all abortions except to save the mother's life? How committed would he be to the civil rights laws, given his acceptance of an honorary degree from Bob Jones University and his statement that it was wrong to describe the Confederate cause -- the preservation of slavery -- as "perverted"?
Senator Ashcroft was chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on constitutional rights. He held hearings not on discrimination or freedom of speech or the like. His subjects included the right to gun ownership, punishment for burning the flag and reversing the Miranda decision.
The Senate should be a place of diverse opinions, no matter how extreme. But the role of the attorney general is different. That is the point of the controversy about the choice of John Ashcroft. The question is whether the country can have confidence in someone so extreme to enforce the law impartially and with respect for our legal tradition.
If he were not a former senator, the idea of a person with Mr. Ashcroft's views being attorney general would be regarded as grotesque. He would have no chance to be confirmed by the Senate. But because he was a member of the club, everyone is predicting his confirmation.
The Christian right, which made the attorney general's job its number one demand, is all-out in its support. No one can expect detached appraisals from Republican senators. Senator Arlen Specter, a so-called moderate, wrote an Op-Ed piece for The New York Times calling for moderates in the cabinet -- and hastened to add that Senator Ashcroft was "an excellent nominee."
As for Democratic senators, not one has had the courage so far to say that he will oppose the Ashcroft nomination. If Al Gore had been elected and had chosen someone far out on the left for the job, would conservative senators have been so deferential? Not bloody likely.
The political turmoil of recent years has often swirled around the attorney general. We need a reassuring figure, one who can bring us back to confidence in the law. George W. Bush's failure to understand that is the worst aspect of this episode.
After the turmoil of Watergate, President Gerald Ford made a non-political choice: Edward Levi, president of the University of Chicago, who restored the Justice Department's luster. Writing about President Ford during the Republican Convention last August, I asked whether George W. Bush, in choosing an attorney general, would follow Gerald Ford and put politics second to respect for law. We know the answer now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); LAWYERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICS (75%); DRUG INTERDICTION (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (65%); MIRANDA RULE (64%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (62%); GRANTS & GIFTS (56%); FIREARMS (50%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

ORGANIZATION: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (64%); ORRIN HATCH (55%) LEWIS, ANTHONY; ASHCROFT, JOHN (ATTY GEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



114 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Bush Seeking To Overhaul Policy Making 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN and FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
President-elect George W. Bush is considering ways to overhaul economic policy making in his administration, with advisers debating whether to strip the trade representative's office of cabinet rank and eliminate a powerful White House council that oversees foreign and domestic economic policy.
 The possible switch from the Clinton administration's approach to economic affairs comes as Richard W. Fisher, a Democrat who is President Clinton's deputy trade representative, has become the leading candidate to fill the top trade post under Mr. Bush. 
 Robert B. Zoellick, a former State Department official and longtime aide to James A. Baker III, the former secretary of state, is also a contender for the trade post but is also being considered for the No. 2 job at the Treasury Department, people involved in the Bush transition said.
Some Bush advisers say that Mr. Fisher now has an edge for the post, in part because Mr. Bush intends to downgrade the position and because Mr. Zoellick has an expansive vision of the trade representative's role in making foreign policy. 
Others say there has been no firm decision to strip the trade office of its cabinet rank and that Mr. Zoellick, who played a high-profile role during Mr. Bush's election campaign and the Florida recount, is still a front-runner for the job.
The debate about the trade post comes as Mr. Bush also leans toward eliminating the National Economic Council, a White House body Mr. Clinton created to coordinate domestic and foreign economic policy. The first person to hold that post under Mr. Clinton was Robert E. Rubin, who later became Treasury secretary.
Elimination of the council would probably leave Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's top economic adviser, with less bureaucratic sway over how cabinet departments conduct both domestic and foreign economic policy, a move consistent with what several top advisers described as Mr. Bush's objective of creating a relatively small but powerful cabinet vested with extensive executive authority.
"Bush is going back to the Eisenhower-type cabinet, where it's more like a board of directors," one adviser said. "He wants a small, workable cabinet. In the Clinton years, you literally couldn't fit the cabinet around a table."
There is no question that economic matters are high on Mr. Bush's agenda. He campaigned on a promise to reduce taxes and revamp Social Security, and indications that the United States and global economies are slowing have put economic policy front and center during the transition. Moreover, Mr. Bush intends to push to broaden the North American Free Trade Agreement across the Americas and to keep trade expansion as a crucial component of his foreign policy.
Yet while President Clinton moved early in his first term to install powerful Capitol Hill and Wall Street economic leaders in positions that were given wide bureaucratic authority, Mr. Bush has so far left uncertain whether his White House advisers and policy experts, the Treasury or Commerce Departments or even the State Department or the National Security Council will take the lead on economic affairs.
Mr. Bush is still considering what to do about the National Economic Council and whom to name to the trade job, said Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for Mr. Bush. "The focus is on collegiality of approach," he said, but declined to say more about the matter.
Two Bush advisers who asked to remain anonymous said the president-elect intended to give Donald L. Evans, his campaign chairman and personal friend who is designated to become commerce secretary, a larger role in setting trade policy than the commerce secretary has had in recent administrations.
Enhancing Mr. Evans's role is one reason Mr. Bush is considering denying cabinet status to the trade representative. The trade representative, who runs the executive branch agency charged with negotiating trade agreements and coordinating trade policy with Congress, has carried cabinet rank since 1976.
The Commerce Department also has a statutory role in trade. It promotes American corporations overseas and helps enforce trade laws. But most recent commerce secretaries have not had a decisive role in overall trade strategy or economic foreign policy.
Though President Richard M. Nixon once sought to have Maurice Stans, his commerce secretary, take the lead on trade, the effort failed in part because Congress had designated the trade representative's office as the responsible body for negotiating trade agreements. Commerce also represents the interests of corporations, which often seek protection from imports.
"If you had Commerce in charge, it would probably be more corporate- focused, and that would raise a concern that the U.S. would be less oriented toward free trade," said Robert Hormats, a Goldman, Sachs managing director. "The critical point would be sending a clear signal that the goal is still trade expansion."
Condoleezza Rice, the Russia expert whom Mr. Bush designated as his national security adviser, has also pushed to downgrade the trade job, Bush advisers said. Though Ms. Rice has a tight bond with Mr. Bush, the president-elect decided not to give her cabinet rank. Ms. Rice views economic policy abroad as part of her portfolio and would prefer that the trade representative not outrank her, these advisers said.
Ms. Rice's role in coordinating foreign economic relations and trade policy is also likely to be highlighted if the National Economic Council is discontinued. Mr. Clinton created the council to make sure that economic matters did not get subordinated to security concerns in setting foreign policy.
"There's no one right way to do it," said Fred Bergsten, president of the Institute for International Economics who served as a White House economic official in the Nixon administration. "But the practical problem is that the N.S.C. has so many security concerns that the economic matters tend to get downgraded," he added, referring to the National Security Council
A final decision on how to structure the economic team will probably affect whomever Mr. Bush chooses as his chief trade negotiator, a position that had more importance under Mr. Clinton than in other administrations.
The selection of Mr. Fisher, who currently focuses on trade issues involving Asia and serves as No. 2 to Charlene Barshefsky, Mr. Clinton's trade representative, would add a second Democrat to the senior ranks of the Bush administration. 
Some Bush advisers also say that Mr. Fisher would send a bipartisan signal to Congress, which is sharply divided about the wisdom of expanding trade with foreign nations and has veto power over trade agreements. He is also seen as less likely to object if Mr. Bush decides to reduce the office's status.
Mr. Zoellick, the other leading candidate for the trade job, was a foreign policy wunderkind under Mr. Baker. He helped design and carry out United States policy on German reunification a decade ago. He also helped start Nafta negotiations from his post in the State Department.
But Mr. Zoellick is seen by some Bush advisers as wanting to use the trade representative's office as a platform for putting economic affairs front and center in United States foreign relations. That ambition conflicts with Ms. Rice's goal of coordinating economic foreign policy in her domain.
Moreover, Gen. Colin L. Powell, the secretary of state-designate, while not an economic expert, has expressed more interest in economic and trade matters than the current secretary of state, Madeleine K. Albright. Mr. Powell helped push Nafta through Congress early in the Clinton administration.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard W. Fisher, a Democrat, is the leading candidate to fill the top trade post under George W. Bush. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (90%) KAHN, JOSEPH; BRUNI, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FISHER, RICHARD W; ZOELLICK, ROBERT B 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



115 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. to Press For Unraveling Of Clinton Acts 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 5 

 BODY:
With help from Western states and prominent mining and drilling industry representatives, the Republicans and their allies are drawing battle plans in the hopes of blunting or reversing much of what President Clinton has sought to accomplish in a blizzard of last-minute orders on environmental policy.
 Those orders included new rules announced today that would put millions of acres in national forests off limits to development. 
 Well beyond that, the Republicans and industry groups intend to pursue avenues resolutely blocked by the Clinton administration, most important by seeking to open federally owned land in Alaska and other Western states to oil drilling, mining, logging and other activities.
In Washington today, Ari Fleischer, the spokesman for President-elect George W. Bush, said Mr. Bush would closely review "each and every" last-minute order that Mr. Clinton issues. 
None of the orders could be reversed by Mr. Bush unilaterally, and the task of seeking a reversal in Congress could prove time-consuming. As Republican lawmakers monitor the path of the lawsuits challenging Mr. Clinton's authority on several fronts, some members of Congress and industry officials expect the Bush administration to appoint officials at the Justice Department and other agencies who would coordinate a full-throttled attack against the last-minute Clinton environmental measures. 
Some fights have already been joined in the courts, including a lawsuit by the Mountain States Legal Foundation, where Gale A. Norton, Mr. Bush's choice to become interior secretary, began her legal career. The organization, based in Denver, has filed a lawsuit challenging Mr. Clinton's unilateral designation in the past year of more than half a dozen new national monuments. 
In his own public comments, Mr. Bush has been cautious when it comes to the environment, emphasizing the importance of striking a balance between conservation and economic development. But in laying plans for the future, his transition team is reaching out directly to the industries and advocates that felt most aggrieved by Mr. Clinton's tenure, and that have made clear there is much they want to see undone. 
A list of the 38-member advisory group on Interior Department issues provided by a Bush transition official reads in part like a Who's Who of representatives of affected industries. It includes W. Henson Moore, a former deputy secretary of energy who is now chairman of the American Forest and Paper Association; the representatives of various mining and energy trade groups; and top officials from companies like General Electric.
"It's very clear that the extractive industries were out of favor with the old administration," said Jack Gerard, the president of American Mining Association and a member of a Bush advisory group. Mr. Gerard said he looked forward to the departure of a Clinton administration consumed by "an extreme ideology that drove extreme solutions."
Representative James V. Hansen of Utah and Senator Frank Murkowski of Alaska, the new Republican chairmen of the Congressional natural resource committees, both vowed today to subject Mr. Clinton's forest-protection plan to review, with an eye to overturning it in the Congress if the federal courts do not do so first.
Republicans objected most vigorously to the part of the administration's road ban that extended protection to the sprawling Tongass National Forest in Alaska, which had been excluded from earlier proposals in deference to Republican concerns about the effect on the timber industry there.
Some Democrats and environmental groups are so alarmed at the prospect of big reversals that they are scrambling to head off the emerging Republican efforts, first by trying to block Ms. Norton's nomination. "Clinton and Gore were like the goalies who stopped nearly every shot to weaken environmental protection, and now those goalies have been pulled," said Daniel J. Weiss, the political director of the Sierra Club.
Even before Mr. Bush takes office, the early wrangling has begun to elevate the environmental arena to the status of an important battleground in a contest over the direction a Bush White House will take.
In a letter to Mr. Bush, Representative Hansen offered an ambitious eight-page agenda for action, recommending that the new administration make it a priority "to correct the misguided direction the Clinton administration has taken in their attempt to manage our natural resources." 
But another Republican, Representative Sherwood Boehlert of New York, was among those who cautioned against giving too much credence to the calls for any kind of upheaval on the environment. "The Congress is a pretty centrist institution these days in both the House and the Senate," Mr. Boehlert said, "and you're going to see resistance to any significant change in direction."
Many Republicans are watching the lawsuits as they wend their way through federal courts, hoping that rulings on whether Mr. Clinton exceeded his authority will bolster their cause. The mining association, headed by Mr. Gerard, filed suit last month in an attempt to block an Interior Department rule set to take effect on Inauguration Day that would guarantee any future interior secretary a veto over mining activity, even when it had Congressional approval.
Among Mr. Bush's other advisers, said Mark Rubin, a top official of the American Petroleum Institute and a member of the group advising the transition team, many are particularly eager to see the forest-protection plan undone because it would bar the oil industry and others from getting access to the vast areas of public lands that Mr. Clinton is seeking to protect from development.
In the courts, the challenges to Mr. Clinton's recent orders -- including one by the State of Idaho to the forest-protection plan -- could get a boost if Mr. Bush's appointees at the Justice Department decide not to defend Mr. Clinton's moves.
For his part, Mr. Bush has signaled that a priority will be to move ahead on an energy policy that would give energy companies more freedom to explore for oil and gas in the United States. In that effort, his biggest task would be to win Congressional approval for a plan to open Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to drilling, a goal that Republicans have pressed since the late 1980's but one that some experts say is within reach if Mr. Bush stays attentive to the mission.
"I'd be very surprised if you see any major effort from the White House to roll back what the Clinton administration has done," said Jerry Taylor, director of natural resources at the Cato Institute, a research and advocacy group in Washington that is opposed to most federal regulation. "But I think you'll see Bush focusing like a laser beam on opening Western lands for development, not just in Alaska."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "A CLOSER LOOK: Preserving Forests"An order issued yesterday by President Clinton declares nearly one-third of federally owned forest land off-limits to future road-building and logging. Map shows areas affected by the presidential order and national forest land.(Source: Department of Agriculture)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LITIGATION (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (76%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (76%); NATIONAL PARKS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); OIL EXTRACTION (73%); MOUNTAINS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); LISA MURKOWSKI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (93%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2001 



116 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: A Showcase Housing Development for Miami Beach 

BYLINE:  By BETH DUNLOP 

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH 

 BODY:
SITTING in the shadow of this resort city's "condo canyon," a new development called Aqua is being designed as an alternative to long rows of towering high-rises. Planned by the urban-design firm of Andres Duany and Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, Aqua is to be a 166-unit development of midrise apartment buildings and town houses offering high-end residences in a traditional neighborhood setting and a pedestrian-friendly environment.
 The project's developer, Craig Robins, hopes to make Aqua a showcase of both urban-planning principles and design. To this end, he has hired a number of New York's prominent modernists along with a number of young and up-and-coming Miami architects to design both houses and apartment buildings, which are expected to sell for a total of just under $200 million. "I've long been interested in taking traditional urban principles and applying the ideas to modern design," Mr. Robins said. 
 He is no stranger to innovative planning. Mr. Robins's company, Dacra, has been influential in the renovation of Miami Beach's Art Deco District and more recently has been deeply involved in bringing new life to Miami's beleaguered Design District, a neighborhood of shops and showrooms that had suffered in recent years in part from shifting population and also from competition from newer design centers.
Aqua's plan comes from the firm of Mr. Duany and Ms. Plater-Zyberk, who are known as the parents of a movement known as the New Urbanism. Their firm, generally known as DPZ, for the initials of their last names, designed Seaside, Fla., a town that -- with its nostalgic cottage architecture and picket fences -- provided the idealized setting for the 1999 film "The Truman Show." Other DPZ towns include Windsor, Fla., near Vero Beach and Kentlands in suburban Maryland; both have traditional neighborhood plans and derive their architecture from historic regional examples. 
In some quarters, however, the New Urbanism has come under fire for its reliance on history, because it is not modern.
At Aqua, the architecture is intended as an ode to Miami Beach's high-style years, from the era of jazzy, streamlined Art Deco hotels to the years in which such architects as Morris Lapidus produced such comparatively flamboyant offerings as the Fontainebleu Hotel.
Typically, Mr. Duany and Ms. Plater-Zyberk plan new towns but do not design the buildings in them, as a way of encouraging the kind of diversity found in older suburban and urban neighborhoods. Among the architects hired to design buildings at Aqua are the New Yorkers Walter Chatham, Alex Gorlin and Emanuela Frattini Magnusson and the Iranian-born sisters Gisue and Mojgan Hariri. 
Even more critically, Mr. Robins said, the planning for Aqua provided the opportunity to proffer an alternative to the high-rises that cast their long shadows up and down the South Florida coastline. "Everybody wants to build a 40-story building and sell you your shoebox in the sky without taking any responsibility for what effect a high-rise has on its surroundings," he said. 
At Aqua, no structure will rise higher than 11 stories. There will be three midrise buildings with a total of 120 apartments and 46 town houses. The original zoning of the eight and a half acre site placed no cap on building height and allowed a density more than twice the eventual design density. Dacra voluntarily offered to reduce both height and density, believing that "less is more," Mr. Robins said. 
Apartment units range from two-story duplex style units at the ground level to four-story skyloft penthouse suites, with more-typical layouts in between. The architecture relies heavily on the use of glass to maximize both the immediate view of Indian Creek and the longer views that will variously take in Collins Avenue, nearby residential neighborhoods and the Atlantic Ocean, which is just two blocks away. 
The apartments, on average 2,000 square feet, will start at $400,000 and rise to prices of, Mr. Robins said, "several million." The town houses, which are in eight structures, will be three stories tall with roof gardens and tower "lookout" rooms, typically 4,000 square feet. Prices will start at $800,000 and top out around $3 million. 
Demolition of hospital buildings that occupied the site has begun and construction is expected to start by June. Mr. Robins hopes to complete the entire project by early 2003.
The site for Aqua is Allison Island, a private residential enclave in the middle of Indian Creek, which is also the Intracoastal Waterway. Miami Beach, which is actually a barrier reef island itself, was made habitable at the end of the 19th century and beginning of the 20th century by dredging, which in turn created a series of small islands, almost all of which are now exclusive gated resdiential areas. 
For years the site for Aqua -- eight-and-a-half acres on the southern tip of Allison Island -- accommodated the now-closed St. Francis Hospital complex. Mr. Robins, who was born at the hospital, long coveted the land. Ultimately, he negotiated for its purchase, and once the site was in hand, he turned to Ms. Plater-Zyberk for a plan.
Ms. Plater-Zyberk, who is also dean of the University of Miami School of Architecture, offered up a plan in many ways atypical of the usual South Florida waterfront dev n array of signage "fits in with the charming disorder of Times Square."
* Hugh Hardy, of Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates, for the interior restoration of Radio City Music Hall, "reinvigorating an American icon."
* Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, for the expansion of the New York Stock Exchange trading floor, "a fusion of architecture and the information age."
* Architecture Research Office, for the interior of a 7,000-square-foot SoHo loft, an "incredibly awesome transformation from warehouse to modern living environment."
* Henry N. Cobb of Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, for its design of the Conservatory of Music at the University of Cincinnati, "a study in balance, between renovation and new construction, academic peace and construction schedules, gathering places and study places."
* Tod Williams Billie Tsien, for the Natatorium at Cranbrook Educational Community in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., where "the inventive open-air feeling creates an environment any swimmer would desire."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rifkin house in Wainscott. (Michael Moran); At Pratt's Higgins Hall, student architects work within history. (David Sundberg/ESTO Photographs Inc.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); SUBURBS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: DUNLAP, BETH; ROBINS, CRAIG; DUANY, ANDRES; PLATER-ZYBERK, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (96%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) MIAMI BEACH (FLA); ALLISON ISLAND (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



117 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER; 
Hotels Stricter On Cancellations

BYLINE:  By BETSY WADE 

 BODY:
A COLLEAGUE making a hotel reservation at the Wyndham Inner Harbor in Baltimore was told that if she changed her plans, she had to cancel 72 hours -- three days -- in advance to avoid being charged for one night's stay. The colleague, who stays at chain hotels primarily for convenience and flexibility, was taken aback. The 72-hour policy was repeated in the confirmation letter.
 Wyndham's normal cancellation deadline is 48 hours, and this is what the hotel had recorded with the reservation, according to Darcie Brossart, a spokeswoman for Wyndham International in Dallas. The 72-hour warnings were described as a computer glitch: Wyndham International only recently took over the hotel from Omni, Ms. Brossart said, and new software for confirmation letters was generating information that conflicted with the hotel's policy. 
 The micro-lesson at hotels with new managements is to ask if an unusual cancellation deadline is correct. The broader message is that cancellation deadlines are stretching out, and $50 early-departure penalties are coming in the door. 
According to Bjorn Hanson, director of the hospitality division of the PricewaterhouseCoopers accounting firm, these hotel policies have been unfolding over three to four years. 
And credit card companies no longer automatically resolve disputes in favor of the guest: Dave Richey, vice president for service management at Visa International, said that guests now win 50 percent of the time, as opposed to 80 percent the American Hotel and Motel Association estimated three years ago.

Greater Demand Does It
The recent economic boom has been creating the stricter policies: hotels generally have guests waiting who will eventually give up and try elsewhere, so they force no-shows to declare early. Doug Jenkins, another Visa spokesman, called higher occupancy rates the driving factor in cancellation penalties. The occupancy rate nationwide this year was 63.7 percent, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers, and while the company expects this to decline slightly, to 63.1 percent in 2003, it does not sound as if penalties will melt away soon. 
Mr. Hanson said that five years ago, 90 percent of American hotels -- excluding resorts -- required cancellation only by 6 p.m. of the day of arrival. "Then starting in '96 and '97, a number of urban hotels, seeing increases in occupancy rates, got aggressive," he said. "They said, 'Let's make it 6 p.m. of the day before.' They met little resistance. Then two years ago, hotels began to say 24 hours wasn't enough. And now it appears that 20 percent of urban hotels have a policy requiring cancellation 48 hours ahead of time." Ray Vastola, the president of Quikbook.com, a discount reservation service, said that in the last year his employees had noticed business hotels' increasingly moving to 24-hour deadlines. 
Mr. Hanson said that 60 percent of the time these days, hotels refused to waive the penalty, even for their best guests or for those who might have good reason to cancel late. 
Mr. Richey said that Visa did not get involved in most disputes over refunds; Visa gets those bucked up the line from the hotel, the cardholder's bank or the hotel's bank. Most disputes focus on whether the hotel told the guest the rules, whether the guest was given a phone number to call to cancel, whether the guest called in time and whether the guest was given a cancellation number. 
"Faced with complete conflict, we will mystery shop -- make a reservation anonymously to see what we are told," he said. "We try to use every method to get the right resolution." If a hotel does not provide a clear statement of the policy on several calls, Mr. Richey said, Mr. Jenkins will be told that is a good spot for employee training. No area of the country performs worse than another, he said, but lower-priced hotels like Days Inns do. "It's at a level where a $50 no-show penalty is a big piece of revenue," he said.

Credit-Card Alert
The credit- and charge-card companies are in the middle: Guests guarantee the holding of their rooms beyond 6 p.m. by giving the hotel card numbers. This enables the hotel to charge the no-show guest even though it does not have a signature. In addition to educating hotel staffs, card companies are educating cardholders about avoiding a penalty. American Express notified its members in 1996 of a policy revision: the deadline set by the hotel would prevail, not the 6 p.m. or 4 p.m. set earlier by American Express. 
Nancy Muller, a spokeswomen for American Express, said that her company had reduced by 20 percent the member complaints it got about hotel charges for failure to cancel when it added the words "no show" to the line with the hotel charge. 
Resorts set early deadlines because there may not be a waiting list of people nearby to take the room. Ms. Muller said that, in the main, business travelers incurred no-show penalties; a plan to provide resort deposits produces few disputes, she said. 
In a city with a gorilla-size convention -- teachers, doctors and politicians -- all the hotels may agree upon an early deadline. Jeff Wagoner, senior vice president for hotel operations at Wyndham, said that sometimes the group organizing a convention would itself ask that the hotel or booking agency impose a 72-hour deadline so that if rooms closer to the convention hall became vacant, delegates could shift. 
Jeanne K. Datz, Hilton's director of communications, said that hotels did not want to overbook, but did face losses on no-shows. "We estimate the demand level and look at the competition" in setting deadlines, she said. The New York Hilton and the Waldorf-Astoria have 24-hour deadlines, she said, while the Hilton at O'Hare Airport is "such a transient hotel" that the deadline is 6 p.m. the same day, and the hotel knows it can fill the room. The San Francisco Hilton has a 72-hour deadline and the Fontainebleau in Miami Beach a resort deadline -- five days. The Peabody Orlando has a 72-hour policy, too.
Mr. Hanson is sympathetic to deep deadlines at resorts. The trend he has trouble with is early-departure penalties. He estimated 15 to 20 percent of United States hotels, mostly chains and places in cities, had them. The Wyndham Inner Harbor does: leaving without 24 hours' notice, its confirmation letter said, costs $50. The Westin St. Francis in San Francisco charges $25 if the departure date is changed during the stay. 
Mr. Hanson said the most common penalty was $50, and he did not understand how it was chosen. He also questioned the rationale for it.
"If the city is filled up, the hotel has a waiting list and will rent the room to someone else and therefore is not entitled to the revenue," he said. "If the city is empty, the hotel was lucky to have the guest who might have stayed that extra day and is not necessarily entitled to the revenue." 
He put the start of this penalty at 10 years ago. "And when this first appeared," he said, "if the customer put up any argument at all, it was waived, until about two years ago. If I had to guess, I would say two-thirds to three-quarters of the hotels are now adhering to this policy."
"It's all an interesting philosophical question," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 21, 2001

 CORRECTION:
The Practical Traveler column on Jan. 7, about hotel cancellation policies, misstated Wyndham International's normal cancellation deadline. It is 24 hours (48 hours applies on a holiday weekend).

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Kathryn Adams) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (66%); CREDIT CARDS (66%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; RESERVATIONS (AIRLINES, HOTELS, ETC); TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: VISA INC (83%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOTEL & MOTEL ASSOCIATION (54%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: WADE, BETSY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%) MARYLAND, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



118 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Deals and Discounts 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH SIANO 

 BODY:
 MERCURIAL PRICES
The colder it gets in Boston, the more guests at the Colonnade Hotel will save under its Frosty Fridays plan. Through March 31, guests who stay a Saturday night (for $229) will pay a Friday-night rate equal to the Fahrenheit temperature reading that evening. For example, if the National Weather Service says it is 19 degrees at 5 p.m. Friday, the charge is $19. If the temperature falls to zero or below, the room is free. The package (for two people) includes parking, hot chocolate and a choice of an Old Town Trolley tour or skating (with skate rentals) at the Boston Common Frog Pond rink. The 285-room Colonnade is at 120 Huntington Avenue in the Back Bay; (617) 424-7000, on the Web: www .colonnadehotel.com.

EUROPE ON ICE
Wintry weather also means good package deals to Europe. CIT Tours offers trips to Rome, Florence, London and Paris for $599 with economy air fare from New York, five nights in a hotel (for example, the Aprile in Florence, Virgilio in Rome, Royal National in London and Jardin de Paris St.-Germain in Paris), daily Continental breakfast and hotel taxes and service fees. Flights are on Alitalia, Air France or British Airways, and prices are per person, double occupancy. Departure taxes and airport fees are extra. The rate is good for departures through March 15 to Rome and Florence, March 22 for London and March 31 for Paris; (800) 248-8687 or www.cit-tours.com.

VALUABLE EXTRAS
Some deals come as appendages to other packages. For example, travelers who buy a Funjet Vacations Walt Disney World package by Jan. 31 with a five-day Park Hopper Plus pass will receive admission tickets to the DisneyQuest indoor interactive theme park in Downtown Disney (general admission $28.62). If they buy a six- or seven-day Park Hopper Plus pass, they also get a Disney Character breakfast ($13.50 to $16 for adults, $7 to $9 for kids). The Park Hopper Plus passes provide unlimited admission to Disney World's four theme parks and other attractions. To qualify for the DisneyQuest and character breakfast add-ons, the Funjet package can be for hotel only or an air-hotel plan. The Funjet packages are sold through travel agents or at www.funjet.com.

PADDLING OUT WEST
Taking a chance on spring's moody weather can yield discounts, too. Two western river cruises aboard the Queen of the West, American West Steamboat Company's sternwheeler, are being discounted by $400 a person. The ship travels the Columbia, Snake and Willamette Rivers, with entertainment and shore excursions. A seven-night cruise departing March 17 starts at $1,949 a person, double, with the discount; on April 14, it's $2,289 a person and up. All staterooms are outside cabins. The ship departs from Portland, Ore. Air fare is extra; (800) 434-1232, www .columbiarivercruise.com. JOSEPH SIANO

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); CRUISES (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); WEATHER (77%); RIVERS (76%); TRAVEL AGENTS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); AIR FARES (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); AIRPORTS (70%); AIRPORT OPERATION (65%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (55%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (55%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (53%)

TICKER: AF (PAR) (55%); AF (AMS) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (53%)

PERSON: SIANO, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



119 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1831 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN/St. Paul 

BYLINE:  By NEAL KARLEN; NEAL KARLEN, who lives in Minneapolis, writes about the arts.

 BODY:
Among Henny Youngman's favorite comebacks to hecklers was, "You remind me of St. Paul: America's dullest town." If Youngman, the King of One Liners, were still alive, he'd need a new silencer.
 No longer is Minnesota's capital a Mayberry of the tundra, lost in the self-consciously cosmopolitan shadow of Minneapolis, its fractious sibling across the Mississippi. St. Paul has finally lost its national reputation as the other Twin City, bolstered by a reviving downtown, an expansion major league hockey team, an igniting cultural scene, and civic voices ranging from the sublime (Garrison Keillor) to the surreal (Gov. Jesse Ventura). 
 St. Paul's spirit is best seen in its oldest traditions, especially its 115-year-old Winter Carnival, held outdoors in the heart of Minnesota's brutal deep freeze, where wind-chill measurements of 40-below are not unusual and the average daily low temperature in January is 6 degrees (the high: 22). The festival even lures the hippest citizens from Minneapolis across the river. 
When Prince performed unannounced in 1986, he gleefully reminded the crowd dancing in snowmobile suits, "Los Angeles ain't got this!"
Neither has Minneapolis.

Events
This year's Winter Carnival runs from Jan. 26 to Feb. 4, and most events are included in the cost of a $3 button good for the entire festival ($10 for a family four-pack). For event information, call (800) 488-4023; for lodging, (651) 265-4900; www.winter-carnival.com.
Ice carving, the carnival's most popular competition, starts 48 hours before the festivities, from noon on Jan. 24 to Jan. 26. Using pickaxes, chainsaws and various home heating appliances, teams create intricate sculptures with up to 20 blocks of ice weighing nearly 300 pounds apiece. The often astonishing results -- from snowflakes to Snoopy -- are displayed in the Royal Courtyard downtown in Rice Park for the entire carnival; more than 250,000 people will stroll among the sculptures in a week and a half.
At nearby Como Park, the carnival's 10 days will feature free skating and an ice maze, a snow playground, and a giant snow slide (helmets provided).
The Grande Day Parade, from 2 to 4:30 p.m. on Jan. 27, signals the beginning of the carnival's yearly passion play in which Vulcanus Rex, representing spring, battles winter's King Boreas for the city's future. Over 100 outrageously decorated floats wind through downtown in a prelude to the Torchlight Parade, Feb. 3 from 6 to 7:30 p.m. The parade features floats aglow with giant flames and lights in anticipation of spring's return.
Another form of ice carving, this time with skates, returned in October. Minnesota's National Hockey League team was spirited out of town in 1993 by a despised owner.
To heal the wound, Mayor Norm Coleman raised tax dollars to tear down the St. Paul Civic Center and build in its place the Jetsons-modern Xcel Energy Center at 175 Kellogg Boulevard West -- just what was needed to earn a replacement team, the Minnesota Wild. For tickets ($10 to $64) through the end of the home season, April 8, call (651) 222-9453 or go to www.wild.com.
Garrison Keillor's "Prairie Home Companion" will be broadcast live at 5 p.m. every Saturday this month and on the first three Saturdays next month from the F. Scott Fitzgerald Theater, 10 East Exchange Street downtown. For tickets ($17 to $27), call (651) 290-1221; on the Web at www.fitzgeraldtheater.org.
The St. Paul Chamber Orchestra will play most Fridays and Saturdays through Feb. 17 at the Ordway Center for the Performing Arts, 345 Washington Street; (651) 291-1144; www.stpaulchamberorchestra .org. Tickets: $15 to $59.
"A T. Rex Named Sue," spotlighting one of the world's most famous fossils, runs through Jan. 21 at the new and exquisite Science Museum of Minnesota, 120 West Kellogg Boulevard; (651) 221-9444. This Sue is a replica of a 67-million-year-old fossil, the largest Tyrannosaurus rex ever found, housed in the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago. General admission is $7. Open daily.
"Snow Ball: A Winter World of Fun," extolling the season's natural beauty and the true grit of the citizens who live through it, will be at the Minnesota Children's Museum, 10 West Seventh Street, (651) 225-6000, through Feb. 4. Kids are encouraged to touch the exhibits, which include an ice-fishing house and a snow palace. General admission: $5.95. Closed Mondays, except holidays.
In Minneapolis, the Children's Theatre Company, 2400 Third Avenue South, (612) 874-0400, or at www .childrenstheatre.org, will present "Lyle the Crocodile," Jan. 16 to April 7, adapted by Kevin Kling from Bernard Waber's books about the friendly reptile living in Manhattan. "Mississippi Panorama," a musical tour of the river that begins as a tiny stream in Itasca, Minn., runs from Feb. 20 to April 1; tickets are $17 to $26 for adults, $11 to $20 for children.
The Walker Art Center, 725 Vineland Place, Minneapolis, (612) 375-7622, www.walkerart.org, has Bill T. Jones's dance and theater workin-progress "Loud Boy" through March 25; "Coloring: New Work by Glenn Ligon," with large silk-screen paintings based on African-American coloring books of the 1970's, will be featured through March 11. General admission: $4. Closed Monday.

Sightseeing
St. Paul's most charming tribute to the late Charles Schultz, the "Peanuts" creator and native son, were the 101 polyurethane statues it commissioned of Snoopy last year. Local artists designed different uniforms and appurtenances for each statue, which were then spread throughout town. Sotheby's recently auctioned off 61 for over $1 million bound for charity, realizing $26,000 for a vision of the beagle dressed as the former Minnesota Twin great Kirby Puckett. For locations of the 40 remaining statues, contact www.ci.stpaul.mn.us (click on Visitor Info and then Convention and Visitors Bureau).
Tours of the James J. Hill House, in the turn-of-the-century Summit neighborhood, made famous in F. Scott Fitzgerald's "This Side of Paradise," begin on the half-hour between 10 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. Wednesday through Saturday; reservations recommended. The house, at 240 Summitt Avenue, (651) 297-2555, has been preserved in every detail favored by Hill, a railroad magnate.
According to the autobiography of Alvin (Creepy) Karpis, Public Enemy No. 1 during the Depression, "If you were looking for a guy you hadn't seen for a few months, you usually thought of two places: prison or St. Paul." Visit the haunts where Karpis, John Dillinger, Babyface Nelson, Machine Gun Kelly and Ma Barker roamed freely on the two-hour St. Paul Gangster Tour, with bus pickup at 215 Wabasha Street, (651) 292-1220. It starts Saturday at noon; $18.
On weekends, the Mall of America, the country's largest shopping center, becomes Minnesota's third most-populous city. Twenty minutes from both St. Paul and Minneapolis, the mall encompasses more than 500 retail stores and an indoor amusement park. Hours are Monday to Saturday 10 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. and Sunday 11 to 7; (612) 883-8800, on the Web at www.mallofamerica.com. Shuttle buses run from most downtown hotels and the airport.
Starting Jan. 20, MetroConnections, (800) 747-8687, will offer three-hour bus tours on Saturdays with downtown pickups in both Twin Cities. Among the sights visited are Minnehaha Falls (of Longfellow fame), the State Capitol, the Cathedral of St. Paul, and the chain of lakes running through urban Minneapolis. General admission: $25.

Where to Stay
The downtown Radisson Riverfront Hotel, 11 East Kellogg Boulevard, (651) 292-1900, fax (651) 224-8999, www.radisson.com, recently underwent a $9 million face lift. Between the 22nd-floor revolving rooftop restaurant and a marble-floored lobby, which features a cappuccino bar, are 479 rooms formal enough for business meetings but with casual comforts. A first-floor skyway connects the hotel to the rest of the city's hub. Weekend doubles start at $99, weekdays from $129.
The Covington Inn is a bed-and-breakfast that bobs on the Mississippi on a genuine 1946 towboat docked at Pier 1, Harriet Island; (651) 292-1411, www.covingtoninn.com. Each of the four nautically appointed double rooms comes with a fireplace and a private bathroom. They cost $135 to $195 a night.
Budget: St. Paul's Best Western Kelly Inn, 161 St. Anthony Avenue, (651) 227-8711, fax (651) 227-1698, is more than a comfortable respite near the State Capitol. Today, as it's been for decades, it's also an unofficial landmark for smoke-filled-room maneuvering among visiting political operatives. Doubles from $95.
Luxury: From the moment it opened in 1910, the St. Paul Hotel, 350 Market Street, (800) 292-9292, fax (651) 228-9506, www.stpaulhotel.com, has offered the most sophisticated lodging in town, with 254 very large, traditionally decorated rooms overlooking Rice Park, with a new 24-hour rooftop fitness center offering panoramic downtown views. Doubles from $155 to $185.
In downtown Minneapolis, the most elegant hotel is the Grand Hotel Minneapolis, 615 Second Avenue South; (612) 288-8888, fax (612) 373-0407, or www.grandhotelminneapolis .com. Converted last year from the 87-year-old Minneapolis Athletic Club at a cost of $35 million, the Grand has 140 rooms exuding a clubby feel. Doubles start at $249 midweek.

Where to Eat
The St. Paul Grill in the St. Paul Hotel, 350 Market Street, (651) 224-7455, remains a favorite with the city's power elite. Serving uncomplicated American food in a darkly wooded decor, the Grill's staples include steak, grilled chicken breast, a smoked salmon appetizer and industrial-strength martinis. Dinner for two with wine is about $85; reservations recommended.
Mancini's Char House, 531 West Seventh Street, (651) 224-7345, is the apotheosis of the classic St. Paul neighborhood steak house. It features Fred Flintstone-size filets and a retro lounge often offering live music. Dinner for two with wine is about $70.
The mural-covered Pazzaluna Urban Trattoria and Bar, 360 St. Peter Street, (651) 223-7000, is popular for either an all-evening multicourse dinner or a quick stop before or after a downtown event. Specialties include homemade gnocchi with tomato, cheese, Bolognese or butter and sage sauce; osso buco; and veal scaloppine. Dinner for two with wine is about $80. Reservations are recommended.
At Cossetta's, 211 West Seventh Street, (651) 222-3476, southern Italian cuisine is served in a cafeteria-style space that still manages to exude a bohemian romance. Serving one of the best budget Italian meals in town, it features specialties like hand-tossed pizza, gelato and tiramisu. Dinner for two with wine runs around $30.
The National Register of Historic Places includes Mickey's Diner, 36 West Seventh Street, (651) 222-5633, where round-the-clock service is provided by take-no-guff waitresses from Central Casting. Mickey's ranks high among St. Paul's civic treasures, and dinner for two (no wine is served) runs about $15. The fare includes all-day breakfast, burgers and malts of a thickness rarely seen anymore. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Winter Carnival ice carving. A statue of F. Scott Fitzgerald, who wrote about St. Paul.; Mickey's Diner is in the National Register of Historic Places. (Donna Rae ice carving , Steve Woit for The New York Times statue and diner ) Maps of Minneapolis highlighting St. Paul.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (89%); SCULPTURE (86%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); WINTER SPORTS (75%); WEATHER (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); AVALANCHES (55%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: KARLEN, NEAL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) ST PAUL (MINN)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



120 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE PREP; 
Battling the Cheats

BYLINE:  By Glenn C. Altschuler; Glenn C. Altschuler is dean of the School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions and the Thomas and Dorothy Litwin Professor of American Studies at Cornell University.

 BODY:
Early in the fall semester, a professor of American studies at Cornell found a three-page paper on the Internet analyzing a poem by Anne Bradstreet. A student in his course had just handed in that very paper. Accused of plagiarism, the student confessed that she had taken the paper from an Anne Bradstreet Web site. She had locked herself out of her apartment the night before the paper was due, she said, and without access to her notes had panicked. 
 Two weeks later, the professor's wife, who teaches psychology, gave an examination to her advanced class. Halfway through the test a student asked to go to the bathroom. She was gone a long time, but the psychologist, who employed the young woman as a lab assistant and was directing her honors thesis, suppressed her suspicions. That evening, she visited the ladies room. In the toilet stall she noticed a sheaf of papers stuffed behind a plumbing pipe. They turned out to be handouts distributed in the course, covered with notes in what she believed was the student's handwriting. 
 Measured by recent surveys, cheating has reached epidemic proportions in high schools and colleges. In a survey of 21,000 students by the Josephson Institute of Ethics, 70 percent of high school students and 54 percent of middle schoolers admitted that they had cheated on an exam. That is up sharply from a study cited in "The State of Americans: This Generation and the Next," edited by Urie Bronfenbrenner and others.. That study found that 33.8 percent of high school students used a "cheat sheet" on a test in 1969. By 1989 the percentage had risen to 67.8. Furthermore, 58.3 percent of high school students let someone else copy their work in 1969, and 97.5 percent did so in 1989.
A recent study by the Center for Academic Integrity at Duke University yielded results similar to the Josephson study, with almost 75 percent of college students acknowledging some academic dishonesty.
In four focus-group discussions conducted by the Center for Public Interest Polling at Rutgers University, many students appeared blase about academic dishonesty. "I guess the first time you do it, you feel really bad, but then you get used to it," said one.
Another asserted: "People cheat. It doesn't make you less of a person or worse of a person. There are times when you just are in need of a little help."
Professors and teachers, of course, take quite a different view, and many are trying to halt what they see as an epidemic. A sharp increase in prosecutions and convictions and publicity in campus publications may well be putting some would-be miscreants on notice. At Ohio University, in Athens, only 59 cases of academic misconduct reached judiciary boards between 1994 and 1999. During the 1999-2000 academic year, 35 cases were filed. At Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., during the same period 32 students were found to have violated the honor code. The dean, Freddye L. Hill, called that "a precipitous increase."
Faculty members and administrators are also finding policies and pedagogies that appear to deter cheating. Citing studies that academic dishonesty can be reduced significantly simply by announcing in classes that integrity codes will be enforced, the University of Minnesota recently required that all students sign a pledge not to cheat and to renew it every time they take a test or complete an assignment.
In the past, many faculty members were reluctant to charge academic misconduct for fear of subjecting themselves to adversarial proceedings, unfamiliar rules of evidence, phone calls from parents, aggressive lawyers and uncertain outcomes. The Cornell psychologist, for example, decided not to go forward after her student insisted that she had reviewed the notes in the bathroom before the exam.
Because papers taken from the Internet often provide an "open-and-shut case," and perhaps because the increase in cheating has persuaded some professors to end their silence, more faculty members seem willing to use the judicial process. The professor of American studies held a preliminary hearing, elicited a confession, gave the student an F on her paper and filed a report with the Academic Integrity Board at Cornell.
Whatever the root causes of cheating and its increase, the ease with which students can find what they want on the Internet is surely part of the problem. Schoolbytes.com provides plot summaries and historical time lines written by "really smart" graduate students for the undergraduate who just realized he didn't bother to read for class and has "about 20 minutes to read eight chapters," according to its Web site.
Schoolsucks.com (which claims 10,000 visits to its site each day) delivers papers "instantly to your screen" at $4.95 a page. A disclaimer adorns each site. Cheater.com, by the way, uses a run-on sentence to explain its operation, saying, "We provide a service for students, like anything it can be abused if used improperly." Plagiarism is illegal, the home page concludes, with a wink and a nod, "and Cheater.com does not support it in any way, shape, or form."
Cheats, however, may soon learn that what the Internet giveth, it can taketh away. For the last few years, according to Alisse Theodore, assistant professor of English language and literature at the University of Michigan, "students were much more Web-savvy than most faculty and T.A.'s I knew." But now, e-mail messages identify search engines that can find strings of text that plagiarists might have used, and faculty members are much adept at using the software.
Plagiarism.org, a service that helps professors fight plagiarism, has a database with tens of thousands of essays, available at various sites on the Web, as well as papers turned over to it by instructors. The technology can also identify papers cobbled together from bits and pieces of material from several texts. IntegriGuard.com offers access to similar services for $5 a month. Colleges often pick up the tab.
Glatt Plagiarism Services takes a different approach, offering a computer-assisted program to instruct students about what constitutes plagiarism and help them identify unintentional borrowing. Suspicious teachers may also use the program.
By all estimates, most cheating remains undetected. But programs at colleges, like a campus-wide discussion on cheating at the University of California at Davis, can have an impact. At Davis, freshmen see skits about what can happen if they violate the code. In a further -- perhaps demeaning -- attempt at consciousness-raising, No. 2 pencils are distributed during finals with the inscription, "Fill in your own bubble or be in trouble." And every Wednesday without disclosing names the campus paper carries a judicial report detailing cheating cases and their disposition, what one student called "a parade of unbelievably stupid acts." 
The results: more than three times as many students are prosecuted for cheating at Davis than at any other University of California campus, and only 31 percent of undergraduates (as opposed to 54 percent elsewhere) report that they got questions or answers from someone who took a test before they did.
In a study of 597 students, enrolled in 12 economics classes in two universities, Joe Kerkvliet and Charles Sigmund wrote in The Journal of Economic Education that the physical distance between students and the use of multiple choice exams neither deterred nor encouraged cheating. But adding an additional version of the test (with the questions arranged in a different order) and the use of faculty members rather than teaching assistants as exam proctors reduced it significantly.
Many of my colleagues now insist that students turn in drafts of papers and have their research notes available; they no longer give take-home exams without specific instructions about the subject, and they tell students when consulting with one another is appropriate. 
It is far too early to declare victory, or even to be certain that colleges are on the right track. Cheating, after all, is simply one manifestation of moral laxity that will not go away without a transformation in values. But maybe, just maybe, pervasive academic dishonesty has peaked and something is being learned about deterrence and the ethical education of students. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ray Bartkus) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL CHEATING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); ETHICS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); PLAGIARISM (73%); FOCUS GROUPS (73%); MISCONDUCT (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; CHEATING; ETHICS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%) UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT DAVIS 

PERSON: ALTSCHULER, GLENN C (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



121 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 2885 words

HEADLINE: Algebra Project: Bob Moses Empowers Students 

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN; Jodi Wilgoren is a national education correspondent for The New York Times.

DATELINE: JACKSON, Miss. 

 BODY:
The ghosts of Mississippi do not haunt Bob Moses, but they are there. Sitting in Mr. Moses's class here at Lanier High School is Larry King, whose grandfather, R.L.T. Smith, was an African-American candidate for Congress in 1962. Mr. Smith got scarcely a handful of votes, though Mr. Moses logged many miles driving him around the Third District, knocking on doors.
 A few years back a girl named Lazazel turned up in Mr. Moses's math lab at the Brinkley Middle School and somehow seemed familiar. Sure enough, her grandmother ran the Wide Area Telephone System for the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party, the integrated group that changed the nation's politics with its challenge at the Democratic Convention in 1964. 
 Mr. Moses, who was among the first civil rights workers to penetrate Mississippi, has also reconnected with C.C. Bryant, the man who put him up in McComb County back in the day. A bus driver whose wife was in the movement, too, acts like long-lost kin. 
And when he got a speeding ticket recently in Belzoni, a Delta town of 2,500, Mr. Moses paid the fine at the county courthouse where he had led so many black people up the steps to register to vote, only to end up face down on the concrete, beaten bloody by white onlookers or police officers. This time, the revolution Mr. Moses is running is much quieter. This time, he has managed to stay out of jail.
"This was the only venue where we could make the notion of civil rights stick," Mr. Moses, 65, said to explain what brought him back to Mississippi as a teacher 30 years after he left as an organizer with the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. "To make sense of why we're here, you have to talk about the history."

An Equation for Equality
If Chapter 1 of Mr. Moses's Mississippi odyssey was about voting, Chapter 2 is about algebra. They merge in his new book, "Radical Equations" (Beacon Press), expected in bookstores Feb. 1. The themes -- equality, empowerment, citizenship -- ripple through like ribbons, tying the two experiences in the same long-term struggle. As the sharecroppers of a generation ago were "living in serfdom on plantations," Mr. Moses writes, "we are growing similar serf-like communities within our cities today."
"The political process has been opened -- there are no formal barriers to voting, for example -- but economic access, taking advantage of new technologies and economic opportunity, demands as much effort as political struggle required in the 1960's," Mr. Moses says in the memoir, which was written with Charles E. Cobb, a journalist. 
"In today's world, economic access and full citizenship depend crucially on math and science literacy," he continues. "I believe that solving the problem requires exactly the kind of community organizing that changed the South in the 1960's."
And so, every Monday, Mr. Moses leaves his home in Cambridge, Mass., to catch a 5:30 p.m. flight through Cincinnati to Jackson -- a trip that can easily take more than seven hours of flying and waiting, waiting and flying -- where he spends four days a week teaching high school math. As always, he is both foot soldier and leader. This time, the movement is called the Algebra Project, which began 20 years ago when Mr. Moses would work problems with his children in his own home, and now serves 10,000 students in 28 cities nationwide. Based in Cambridge, it is a nonprofit organization with an annual budget of $2.5 million.
The notion is simple: Every child must master algebra, preferably by eighth grade, for algebra is the gateway to the college-prep curriculum, which in turn is the path to higher education, which is seen as the key to even basic success in modern society.
Mr. Moses has developed an innovative approach to mathematics to appeal to poor minority children, and to accommodate a variety of learning styles. But the Algebra Project is as much about demanding rigorous education in low-income communities, where children are typically tracked into remedial classes, as it is about a particular teaching method.
"It's the issue of the floor: How are you going to raise the floor?" Mr. Moses explained between classes at Lanier one day. "This work is really a much larger deal, this issue of really changing the culture of the community around the education of its children."
Freeman A. Hrabowski III, a black mathematician who is president of the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, called the Algebra Project "an excellent way of connecting mathematics to life itself" and "helping young people and adults understand that math is throughout life."
"Just as civil rights leaders helped people to understand how voting could transform lives and a community," said Mr. Hrabowski, who at age 12 marched with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in Birmingham, "Bob Moses's project is supporting teachers as they work to help children understand that learning algebra can help transform their lives."
An evaluation of the program by researchers at Lesley College, based in Cambridge, found that 92 percent of Algebra Project graduates in Cambridge enrolled in upper-level math courses in ninth grade -- twice the rate of their peers in the city. At the M.L. King Academic Middle School in San Francisco, which uses the Moses technique, 56 percent of black 1997 graduates took college-prep courses in the ninth grade, compared with 24 percent of a demographically similar group in the district.
Here in Mississippi, eighth-grade algebra students at the Brinkley Middle School scored 286.8 on the state's algebra test -- slightly above the district mean of 284.9, for students in grades 8 through 12. Algebra Project students in West Tallahatchie, one of the state's poorest communities, scored 300.6, and those who attended a special workshop on graphing calculators scored 315.9.
The project has been most successful in communities with a homogeneous population that feels ill-served by the public schools; in places where minority groups compete, the organizing strategies are less effective.
"What he did was directly tackle the problem of demand, have the students understand that systems have prevented their access to mathematics, and have them demand algebra from school boards that have denied it to them," said Phillip Uri Treisman, a calculus professor at the University of Texas who is a national leader in efforts to improve minority students' performance in math and science. "He humanizes discussions in extremely practical ways. I have never seen anybody speak with such a balance of heart and mind as Bob Moses."

From Harlem to Hamilton
Before he became a civil rights worker, Robert Parris Moses was a math teacher. For Mr. Moses, a devotee of the yogi Paramahansa Yogananda, math literacy, as he calls it, is almost a religion.
Raised in the Harlem River housing project, Mr. Moses attended Stuyvesant High School, the New York math powerhouse, then Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., where he played basketball and majored in philosophy and French. He was teaching math at Horace Mann, a private school in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, when the nascent sit-in movement drew him south in 1960.
Mr. Moses went to Mississippi, where no one had yet tried to organize the poor, illiterate, rural population, and quickly became a legend, his soft-spoken determination gathering legions of local followers. He agitated in the state full time from 1961 to 1966, registering thousands of voters and training a generation of organizers in makeshift freedom schools. 
With his trademark denim overalls and strong moral leadership, he has been the hero of many books on the civil rights movement, and the inspiration for the movie "Freedom Song," which was released recently on TNT.
Fleeing the Vietnam-era draft, Mr. Moses and his wife, Janet, moved to Tanzania, where three of their four children were born. After eight years teaching in Africa, he returned to Cambridge to finish his Ph.D. in the philosophy of mathematics at Harvard .
When his eldest child, Maisha, entered the eighth grade in 1982, Mr. Moses was frustrated that her school did not offer algebra, so he asked the teacher to let her sit by herself in class and do more advanced work. 
The teacher invited Mr. Moses -- who had just received a MacArthur "genius" grant -- to teach Maisha and several advanced classmates. The Algebra Project was born.
At its core, the project is a five-step philosophy of teaching that can be applied to any concept: Physical experience. Pictorial representation. People talk (explain it in your own words). Feature talk (put it into proper English). Symbolic representation. 
One of the basic tenets is to teach integers by taking students on a trip -- in Cambridge, on the subway; in the South, a tour of civil rights landmarks; elsewhere, a drive around the neighborhood or even a stroll around school. The children then draw what they saw, talk about it, write about it and eventually create number lines, then practice adding and subtracting positive and negative numbers.
Mr. Moses has also developed a set of manipulatives and math games, the crux of which is a version of craps using a three-dimensional model of monomials, binomials and trinomials. Students roll dice of red, yellow and blue. Their scores translate into equations and, eventually, they calculate the probability of a WOFT -- win on the first try. A separate curriculum teaches ratios through African drumming.
"You can actually see what you're talking about, instead of just thinking about it in your head," said Tiffany Edmonston, 16, a sophomore at Murrah High School here in Jackson.
"I was taught to think," agreed Chris Adagbonyi, 18, a Murrah senior. "It taught me to use outside things to solve my problems."
The main reason Mr. Moses is teaching in Jackson -- he and his assistants are paid by the Algebra Project, not the district, but students are randomly assigned to his classes -- is to help him create curriculum models.
"To develop mathematical materials, what you need is access to students, and you need access to the students you're trying to serve," he explained. When university professors far removed from the laboratory of the classroom are doing education research, he added, "there's a gap between how they see things and what's going on in the minds of the students."

Students Teaching Each Other
At Lanier High, in a neighborhood of boarded-up homes and rusted-out cars, Mr. Moses's perch is in a dark corner of the first floor, a messy set of vandalized tables and folding chairs with ripped cushions adjacent to a messier office and kitchen, the whole place feeling more campaign office than classroom. He presides here much like he did at S.N.C.C. meetings in the 1960's: softly, often sitting down, pushing students to teach each other rather than follow him, the outsider.
He starts each morning upstairs in a pristine distance learning laboratory, teaching a class via satellite at Simmons High School in the Delta town of Hollandale. Mr. Moses waits awkwardly at the lectern, watching on TV screens as the students amble in and sling backpacks on desks, the universal sign of, I dare you to teach me something.
He tries, oh how he tries, but class keeps getting interrupted by loudspeaker announcements at both schools. Simmons has yet to find graph paper for the students. Mr. Moses can hear them only when they turn on their microphones; he cannot see them clearly enough to tell when eyes begin to glaze.
"James, you still there?" he asks hopefully. "Who's up there?" he says a few minutes later. "Tell us your name, and tell us why."
Blindly, from Simmons: "Mr. Moses, are you asking a question?"
Soon, Mr. Moses plans to make the 100-mile trek to Hollandale, near Greenville, two afternoons a week to teach the class in person. But several of the Simmons students may drop out rather than do math after school.
Downstairs at Lanier, Alan and Michelle Shaw are guest-teaching Mr. Moses's classes. The Shaws, who met at Harvard, where they were tutors in the first Algebra Project school, now run the organization's Web site; once a year, they come to Jackson with their three sons to teach computer programming.
The two oldest boys, 8-year-old Chinua and Yesuto, 6, stand in the middle of the room, following their father's directions to take four steps, turn 120 degrees to the left, and repeat three times, making an equilateral triangle. The high-schoolers, divided into groups around five computers, program them to do the same, and then to draw a set of 10 hexagons rotated 36 degrees each.
Meanwhile, across town, the gospel spreads. Twenty-eight Jackson teachers, among the 300 the Algebra Project has trained nationwide, are in a day-long workshop to follow up on a three-week institute they attended in the summer.
Elementary school teachers are sharing stories from their field trips to Medgar Evers's home and the library and monument to his martyrdom. Middle-school teachers are poring over interconnected plastic blocks, trying to come up with new ways to teach three-fourths times one-third Even if students have dealt with fractions in elementary school, the Algebra Project philosophy involves reteaching, getting students to think about math deeply, rather than just learning by rote.
One teacher sees three-fourths as three green blocks on top of a red, while another makes it a long stick with three red and four green. Interpreting the problem as, "What is three-fourths of one-third, two separate groups take the 12 blocks, divide them into three groups (four blocks each), then take three-fourths of that to find the answer (three blocks, or one-fourth the total).
"I'm reaching students that I don't think I reached last year -- the thug or the troublemaker or the kid who gets bored easily," said John Bakelaar, who teaches sixth and seventh grades at the Peeples Middle School.
Terrance, a former student, recently called Mr. Bakelaar to say he was having trouble with integers. Over Thanksgiving break, the two did a number-line trip, from the local sports museum through the medical center, the mall, Burger King, a golf course, a baseball field and Swensen's ice cream shop. Terrance got a 94 on his test the next week.
"I was frustrated after last year -- I thought I taught my butt off and I got results that were terrible," said Mr. Bakelaar,who attended the Algebra Project workshop in the summer of 2000. "Now, I'm more effective, I'm having more fun, I'm not having the discipline problems."

The Young People's Project
Math is the Moses family business. 
Maisha, the girl who inspired this movement, spent several years training Algebra Project teachers after graduating from Harvard. Now 30, she is in Jackson, teaching her father's classes on Mondays, and helping older students tutor younger ones in the math games. Omowale, 28, is spearheading the Young People's Project, an echo of the civil rights movement in which 150 teenagers act as "math literacy workers," singing the prime number rap and helping run camps and workshops. Tabasuri, 26, is a rap singer who often works with the students; Malaika, 24, is in business school at Babson College, and last summer worked on getting patents for her father's math games.
The Moses children remember seeing books of lynching photographs when they were younger, though the memory has faded of their first trip South, by train for the 1982 funeral of Amzie Moore, who had been chairman of the N.A.A.C.P. in Cleveland, Miss. Since the Southern Initiative of the Algebra Project began in 1991, they have returned to Jackson, one by one.
"I remember flying down here with my brother and wanting to see what was in those pictures," Omo Moses said. "I feel connected to what happened here."
In Jackson, Mr. Moses lives with Maisha, Omo, Taba and some of their friends, in what feels like a movement house in a sparsely populated area 20 miles outside of town. The Young People's Project offices are in the house, as is the studio for Taba's record label, Port Life; stray students often sprawl in the spacious living room, one typically camping overnight on the cot in what would be the dining room.
The elder Mr. Moses, his head balding and his trim goatee gone gray, stays in the front room, where a yoga mat takes up much of the floor. A vegetarian for a quarter century, Mr. Moses rises before dawn to swim 1,000 yards at a gym, then goes back to the pool after school for another 1,000, gulping half-gallons of orange juice in between.
Memories of Mississippi, the Mississippi of the 1960's, are never far away. Over vegetable tempura in a trendy Japanese restaurant in Jackson recently, he cringed at the suggestion that the National Guard might have gotten custody of the disputed Florida ballots, that it could be a fair institution. Back when the Algebra Project began at Brinkley, he was suspicious of a junior F.B.I. club that started soon after.
And, always, he is motivated by the spirit of Ella Baker, that mother of the student movement, whose words about radicalism open Mr. Moses's book.
"The emphasis was on you, you have to do it, this is your job -- that's the sense in which the vote was radical," he said. 
Similarly, the Algebra Project is more about the students than the teachers, each one teaching one. "The legacy that's important is the organizing," he said, looking at his own children, "the passing on. "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Math is the Moses family business. Maisha Moses, now 30 and a Harvard graduate, teaches one of Mr. Moses's classes in Jackson each Monday. The Algebra Project was born when she was in the eighth grade, and Mr. Moses taught algebra to her and several advanced classmates.; Bob Moses describes a chain of events from algebra to economic access in "Radical Equations."; Bob Moses, 1964. (Photographs by Greg Campbell for The New York Times)(pgs. 30,31); Bob Moses, in overalls, training civil rights volunteers in June 1964. (Historic photographs by Steve Schapiro/Black Star)(pg. 32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); POLITICS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); BOOK REVIEWS (69%); WRITERS (66%); CITIZENSHIP (65%); BOOKSTORES (61%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; MATHEMATICS; ALGEBRA PROJECT 

PERSON: WILGOREN, JODI; MOSES, BOB (TEACHER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) MISSISSIPPI

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



122 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1642 words

HEADLINE: VIEW; 
Who Will Lead The Public Schools?

BYLINE:  By James W. Guthrie and Theodore Sanders; James W. Guthrie is chairman of the Department of Leadership and Organizations, Peabody College, Vanderbilt University, Nashville. Theodore Sanders is chief executive of the Education Commission of the States.

 BODY:
American education has entered a new era in which academic achievement has moved to the center of what is publicly expected of schools. What is far from clear, however, is who is going to lead America's public schools in this new learning era. Big cities seem to be enamored of unconventional leaders in education -- business moguls, lawyers, politicians and retired military officers.
 The question is: Will this strategy lead to higher levels of learning, and, if not, what can be done instead? 
 Meeting the leadership challenge may necessitate more complex solutions than finding executives in new places. Unless fundamental issues regarding needed knowledge of management, more favorable working conditions for leaders and greater economic rewards for the undertaking are solved, the nation's unconventional new superintendents may well prove as ineffective as their conventional predecessors. 
At a time when the nation's school districts are examining every issue in a search for better schools, there seems to be a major hurdle that no one can surmount. Public schools in major cities cannot easily find leaders. The problem is significant in that these districts educate more than 25 percent of America's students -- many of whom are disadvantaged .
In their quest for leaders, they have looked far beyond academia. For example: Seattle was renewing its schools under the leadership of a retired Army general, until he died. Now it is relying on a former business executive. Los Angeles has turned to a former Colorado governor to be its superintendent. Milwaukee employed a highly visible social service director as superintendent. San Diego is relying on a former prosecuting attorney. Philadelphia schools were led until recently by a former ordained minister. Chicago has installed the mayor's business-oriented disciple as chief executive for public schools. Houston's school board appointed one of its own publicly elected members to be superintendent. New York City has yanked the leadership reins from respected and experienced educators and handed them to a securities industry lawyer. 
What is going on? Has conventional education leadership faltered so badly that it must now be replaced by unconventional appointments from outside education? Is this like selecting John Gotti to become a bishop or picking N.F.L. coaches from the ranks of dot-com nerds? Political exasperation may be the short-run explanation.
Big city mayors and state governors feel the pressure for change, and they are responding as creatively as they can under the arcane arrangements by which America governs schools. Big city school boards, perhaps sensing that their problems are as much political and financial as they are educational, veer from convention and seek out-of-sector leaders. 
However, the "cure" for troubled big city school districts is likely to be more complicated than engaging high-profile leaders from other spheres. Unconventional leaders may find themselves, in time, wrestling with such conventional education issues as how to elevate academic excellence while brokering budgets and dampening discord. Then a question arises as to whether generals, corporate executives and governors will have any more success than the conventional superintendents they replaced. 
Beyond political despair operates a deeper dynamic. Although there has been a big upswing in the nation's educational expectations, precious little is known about how to ensure high academic performance, especially for low-income students. Simply put, our national educational aspirations may be outstripping our management technology. Also, despite America's current national love affair with education as an instrument for societal and personal salvation, big-city education leaders must frequently perform their tasks in highly politicized environments characterized by such deep distrust and widespread despair that their day-to-day work lives are virtually dysfunctional. 
To make matters worse, most of America's elite universities have fled the field. There are few analogues to great business schools or to military academies for providing intellectual nourishment in education management. Finally, good management training is expensive and demanding. West Point and Wharton cost a lot to operate, and their students see the personal investment and sacrifice as having an economic or emotional payoff. Few in education perceive anything close to a similar lifetime return on training in education leadership. 
A school's success is now measured first by the performance of its pupils. However, there is not a professional preparation program in America that can easily convey to a prospective big-city superintendent, conventional or unconventional, a proven management technology capable of uniformly elevating learning for disadvantaged students. 
Numerous advocates hawk panaceas as radical as unregulated vouchers and as logical as "systemic reform." Still, none of them have anything like the sophisticated management strategies used by American business, medicine or the military for addressing complicated challenges. There are certainly exciting reform beginnings in such places as Houston, San Diego and Seattle. In these instances, leaders appear to be pursuing practical paths to higher performance. But, at base, there is little theory at present to link learning and leadership. 
What's more, the work environment in which education leaders operate is often dysfunctional. How would Jack Welsh of General Electric, Larry Ellison of Oracle or Robert Johnson of Black Entertainment Television react if (like most city superintendents) they did not have a personal vote on their own board; if their directors had a constituency of corporate employees who were not stockholders; if directors were considered popular if they micromanaged; if labor contracts restricted conditions by which workers could be reassigned to tasks; or if they had little or no control over employee performance incentives?
Such conditions in schools virtually dictate failure for big-city superintendents, who are seldom in charge of their own domains. At almost every turn they must compromise deeply. They quickly exhaust whatever political capital they had at the outset of their tenure. In big cities, superintendent contract buyouts are becoming the norm.
And there are few well-prepared leaders available to replace them. Over the past quarter century, university preparation of educational administrators has fallen into a downward spiral dominated by low-prestige institutions, diploma mills, outmoded instruction and low expectations. Many of these sub-par training programs have virtually no entrance requirements, save an applicant's ability to pay tuition. The doctor of education (Ed.D) degrees they confer have lost their salience. 
In former times big-league education leaders tended to be graduates of institutions like Harvard, Yale, Duke or the University of Chicago. This is no longer true. To begin with, Chicago, Duke and Yale have closed their education schools. A few elite institutions retain boutique programs. However, powerhouse universities are no longer major training grounds for any significant number of education executives. 
Today's conventionally prepared superintendent is more likely to have come from East Appalachia State, San Francisco State or literally hundreds of other public institutions that began as normal schools and politically bootstrapped themselves to graduate degree status. 
If education could once count on recruiting people with a "calling," similar to that felt by religious leaders, such days are now past. Today education is big business with big problems, and it must compete with other fields for big talent. Regrettably, the activity seldom offers the big bucks paid by those with which it must compete.
Annual tuition at America's top universities is $25,000. Moving and living costs are extra. Graduate programs usually take a minimum of two years and often three. So the direct investment in a prestigious program is at least $75,000 to $100,000. 
An even bigger issue for a mid-career professional is foregone income. Even if a teacher earns only $50,000 a year, three years of full time study means giving up $150,000 in wages. A principal earning $75,000 to $100,000 annuallyforfeits more. Such costs are justified if you are a youthful business school graduate heading for a consulting career. However, the reward gradient is less attractive if you are to become a superintendent earning, at the very best, $150,000 to $200,000. 
Aspiring education leaders can obtain a "union card" for a lot less. They can go to a nearby state college that offers an Ed.D. program with classes at night and on weekends. Not only is tuition much lower, but there are no foregone wages or relocation costs. 
What can be done? Former governors, generals and chief executives may be attractive initially. But their accomplishments and ranks will wear thin unless something is done about underlying issues that the leadership must face.
Several components need to be addressed concomitantly with new management technology centered upon instruction, learning, performance evaluation and professional development. The curriculum for preparing education leaders needs to be altered, and its design could profit from cooperation among business schools, the military, social scientists and educators.
A highly selective program must be constructed to create a pool of unusually qualified candidates for the nation's critical leadership roles. This includes individuals carefully selected and intensely prepared to fill the nation's 100 most influential education positions -- chief state school officers, big-city superintendents and mayoral and gubernatorial aides. Of course, the most critical need is for appropriate groups to exercise leadership. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Dave Ridley) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); ARMIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BOARD CHANGES (76%); POLITICS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); GOVERNORS (69%); MAYORS (68%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

PERSON: GUTHRIE, JAMES W; SANDERS, THEODORE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



123 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2297 words

HEADLINE: The Lives They Lived: 01-07-01: Ella Goldberg Wolfe, b. 1896; 
A Tale of Three Centuries

BYLINE:  By Sam Tanenhaus; Sam Tanenhaus, a contributing editor for Vanity Fair, is writing a biography of William F. Buckley Jr.

 BODY:
Ella Wolfe, who died last January at the age of 103, was the last survivor of the generation that brought the American Communist movement into existence, convinced they had found the gateway to an earthly paradise. They were mistaken, of course, and many a penitent true believer would lapse into morbid atonement. But Ella and her husband, Bertram D. Wolfe, chose a different route, becoming avid chroniclers of the cause they had served so long. Bert wrote books on Communism that are models of energetic scholarship, while Ella, his indispensable partner for six decades, emerged in her last years as a staunch Reaganite as well as a walking archive of the Old Left. 
 We're often told "the personal is political." Ella's theme, obversely, was that the political is inescapably personal. Born just before the 20th century began, she registered its tortured windings and tangled contradictions as instinctively as most of us feel changes in our body temperatures. Ideology and theory had their places in her narrative, but only as strands in a larger story, which began and ended with human beings -- big players and walk-ons, sages and fools, assorted spouses, lovers, siblings, children. "I can still see his face today" was a pet expression -- applied to, say, the federal agent who infiltrated a Communist convention in Michigan in 1922; or to Stalin, seen up close in his "tan tunic with leather boots." "He was smaller than I expected," she recalled, "with a pockmarked face, a brutal mouth and the yellow eyes of a mountain lion." 
 The first milieu Ella Wolfe knew was that of her birthplace, the remote village of Kherson, Ukraine. This world, too, she summoned easily, in folkloric reminiscences grounded in the quiet despair of czarist Russia. Ella's father, who managed a coal and lumber business, was a closet intellectual excited by the Marxist vision of social equality and economic justice. Even as Ella and her three siblings enjoyed the comforts of a company-owned house with three stories and a vast fruit orchard, they "were born with Socialism," Ella later said, "like drinking mother's milk." None drank as deeply as Ella.
The family immigrated to the United States in 1906 and settled in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Ella, 10 years old, was instantly at home. She scampered through public school, skipping grades in bunches, and was barely in her teens -- small, dark-haired, with the jaunty carriage of a dancer -- when she met Bert Wolfe on a tennis court in Prospect Park. He was a student at City College, tall and gaunt, with a budding writer's romantic intensity. He courted her with promises of a honeymoon in the Black Forest, but on their wedding day, in 1917, they traveled no farther than City Hall and then Childs, the New York restaurant chain, for cucumber sandwiches. Afterward, Ella went back uptown to Hunter College for the day's remaining classes.
Living frugally in immigrant Brooklyn, the Wolfes did a year of course work at New York University Law School and got jobs at the Socialist Rand School, just off Union Square -- Ella teaching English to foreigners, Bert manning the public-relations desk. With Bert, Ella devoured Masses, the vibrant downtown magazine whose pages jumbled together Modernist verse and left-wing propaganda, and she joined the labor movement, stumping for Morris Hillquit, the Socialist candidate who won 20 percent of the vote in the mayoral election of 1917.
Only later would it be apparent that Ella had come of age during the peak period of American radicalism. Victorian taboos were dying, while new, equally rigid dogmas had yet to replace them. Like so many on the "lyrical left," Ella thrived in an environment that was at once carefree and earnest, passionate and logical, aesthetic and political. 
Naturally, it couldn't last. In April 1917, Woodrow Wilson, though re-elected on his vow to keep America out of World War I, reversed himself and committed the nation to fight. Suddenly, American youths were being readied for the European slaughterhouse. Ardent pacifists, Ella and Bert started putting together Facts, an antiwar and antigovernment periodical, but stopped after six issues, in danger of violating the Espionage and Sedition Acts.
The shock of "Mr. Wilson's War" was swiftly countered, however, by a remarkable sequence of events in, of all places, Ella's backward homeland. In November 1917, Vladimir Lenin led the Bolsheviks to power and pulled Russia out of the war. The Allies panicked, but American Socialists were elated -- and energized. Soon the American Communist Party was born, a branch operation of the Communist International. Ella was an active member from the first, and her husband, Bert, helped write its manifesto.
Barely in her 20's, Ella had become a card-carrying revolutionary, a public target of the nascent Red Scare. Before long, plainclothes policemen staked out her apartment. Ella sent Bert into hiding and went to face them herself. The district attorney baited her by asking why an attractive college-educated girl was "spending so much time with these dirty, filthy foreigners" and then confronted her with copies of letters she had written to Jay Lovestone, the Communist Party's young leader. She convincingly protested that she had no idea what the men were up to. Actually, she was one of Lovestone's trusted lieutenants. Documents unearthed in Moscow 75 years later showed how deeply she had been enmeshed in secret work, procuring false passports for traveling Soviet "illegals." 
"My Communism is much more of a faith, a religion if you will, than a rational striving," Ella wrote to Lovestone in 1924. But for all her fervor, she knew the prospects for "revolutionary Socialism" were dim in Harding-Coolidge America, with its booming economy and frantic consumerism. They looked somewhat brighter in Mexico City, where the Wolfes, now living underground, sojourned for several years. Ella tutored a Kremlin agent in English, got him false papers, taught herself Spanish (she later earned a master's degree) and mingled with the bohemian elite. The Wolfes' festive Friday-night gatherings attracted the painter Diego Rivera, the photographer Tina Modotti and other rebel artists all sold on the Soviet "experiment." 
In late 1928, Ella and Bert attended the Comintern's Sixth Congress, in Moscow, the citadel of the revolution, but once there stumbled into a power struggle among Lenin's rival successors. Stalin eventually won and pointedly warned the dissenting Americans that Russian cemeteries had ample room for them all. After a few jittery weeks, Bert and Ella were allowed to return home, only to be shunned by their former comrades, who were already marching in lock step to the new regime's hardening line. Ella nonetheless held on to her party membership for another two years -- and the Soviet vision for longer still. After visiting their Brooklyn Heights apartment in 1938, their young neighbor Alfred Kazin wrote that one wall was covered "with photographs of their old comrades and friends from many countries in the 'movement,"' with a scowling Lenin accorded the place of honor.
But the bonds were weakening. The most eventful quarter-century in recorded history ended, horrifically, in the summer of 1939. First, Stalin and Hitler signed their infamous pact. Nine days later, World War II began. After 20-odd years -- Ella's entire adult life -- Utopia was in tatters. She was not alone in making the appalling discovery that the 20th century, born amid hopes of universal democracy, had been transformed into a laboratory of totalitarianism. Were Ella and her husband victims? Or had they deluded themselves? These were questions she would struggle with for the rest of her life. Her conclusion, that Bolshevism was corrupt from its inception, started her on the path to the extreme right. Ella became not simply a former Communist, but fiercely anti-Communist, an entrenched opponent of all she had once fought for. 
When Stalin won praise for joining the Grand Alliance in 1941, Ella insisted that the Soviets were still adversaries. And so, for that matter, were American Communists, who she said were pawns of the Kremlin. Ella herself had adopted aliases, lied to the authorities, conspired with foreign agents. She spoke openly of these activities, describing them as routine procedures for dedicated party members. 
Her political U-turn loosed new furies upon her. She and her husband, who had also renounced his former allegiances, were now warmly hated on the left, labeled enemies of the war effort and apologists for Hitler. The organized right, gaining strength in the postwar years, distrusted them almost equally. But the couple had outgrown these battles. Abandoning the present tense of politics for the perfect tense of history, they spent a decade ransacking libraries and archives, pursuing the origins of Bolshevism, the cause they had once adopted as a faith. 
In 1966, they settled permanently at Stanford's Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, with its enormous holdings and scholarly ambience. Eleven years later, Bert died, and Ella devoted herself to tending his collection at the Hoover archive -- keeping it "green" with fresh cuttings from newspapers and periodicals -- as well as corresponding with a vast network of friends to whom she sent whatever articles she thought might interest them. "She was a one-woman clipping service," says Elena Danielson, the Hoover's head archivist. "She read The New York Times with a pair of scissors."
She also became the muse to a new generation of conservatives, writers for whom anti-Communism was still the most urgent cause of the day, even as the Soviet Union was plainly in its death throes. To some of her old-time colleagues, her reactionary views were mystifying. But to Ella, they were wholly consistent with the humanist impulses that had defined her from the beginning. 
History, as ever, yielded new paradoxes. By virtue of her longevity and total recall, Ella became the last living link to the movement's first days. Scholars and journalists flocked to her Spanish-style bungalow on Portola Street, near Palo Alto High School, to examine the photographs and prints, sift through her voluminous correspondence with Frida Kahlo and, most of all, to hear the flowing soundtrack provided by this tiny, elegant raconteuse -- her lush white hair coiled in a braid atop her head, her eyes a bold, amused blue. She was interviewed for "Reds," Warren Beatty's tribute to her acquaintances and fellow romantics John Reed and Louise Bryant, and she reminisced, with a novelist's turn of phrase, on video- and audiotapes housed at the Hoover.
Ella soaked up the attention. And why not? Her generation of female radicals had been kept in the shadows far too long. Even Bert, devoted though he was, had hogged the glory. Ella had been his co-researcher, not to mention his best editor and most astute critic, but in book after book she was relegated to the dedication page. His posthumous autobiography, "A Life in Two Centuries," whose 700-plus pages Ella had shepherded into print, refers to her often as "my sweetheart" or "my wife," casually enfolding her history into his. 
But as the years went on, her performance turned nostalgic. She seemed haunted by the quaint idealism of the revolution, the men who had worked for a pittance, the wives who had cooked meals out of coffee tins. "We shall never see their likes again," she scrawled at the bottom of a letter to me about her acquaintance Whittaker Chambers when I was doing research for a book about him. She was 95.
What did Ella have to show for her long journey, which began in the 19th century and was closing in, astonishingly, on the 21st? What, that is, apart from her memories, so burnished by the end that a friend dubbed her "Mrs. Hyperbole"? Plenty, as it happened. The memorabilia she acquired along the way, lugging it through the years from city to city, dwelling to dwelling, had matured into a museum-worthy collection. There were photographs by Edward Weston and Tina Modotti, a charcoal portrait of Ella by Rivera, "Four Inhabitants," a painting she had chosen from Kahlo's collection, and more. She began selling these treasures off piecemeal to meet the expenses of old age. 
As her 100th birthday neared, Ella's strength failed. Unable to drive, she terminated the afternoon sessions at the archive's photocopy machine and camped all day in her living room, gossiping with friends and neighbors, answering her mail, keeping up with The Threepenny Review and The New Criterion. When the time came for around-the-clock home care, she parted, finally, with "Four Inhabitants." Kahlo, too, had emerged from the shadows -- had indeed become a high priestess of feminism, adored by celebrity collectors. At the Sotheby's auction in 1996, the canvas fetched nearly $900,000. Ella used the money to hire a three-nurse team.
Dismissive of the Kahlo cult -- what could these silly fans possibly know about her friend's world? -- Ella much preferred discussing the painter's love life, particularly her fling with Trotsky in Mexico, shortly before a Stalinist hit man opened his skull with an ice pick. "I am very tired of the old man," Kahlo had confided in a note accompanying one of Trotsky's love letters, nine pages long. Ella swore she had long since destroyed the letter, just as Kahlo had instructed. 
Some friends and scholars refuse to believe it. They think it must be hidden somewhere. "She was a squirrel," someone said at the time of Ella's death. "She kept everything." But those who knew her best disagree. In three centuries, Ella Wolfe witnessed more than her share of treacheries and was party to any number of deceptions. But betray a friend? Never. Not even for the sake of history. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (1919: Hoover Institution) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); WRITERS (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); POLITICS (74%); CHILDREN (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); TENNIS (66%); SPORTS (66%); RESTAURANTS (50%); WILD CATS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (59%)

PERSON: TANENHAUS, SAM; WOLFE, ELLA (1896-2000) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



124 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION/RADIO; 
A Return to the Small Screen, and to Some Old Ideas

BYLINE:  By DAVID EVERITT; David Everitt's latest book, "King of the Half Hour: Nat Hiken and the Golden Age of TV Comedy," will be published by Syracuse University Press next month.

 BODY:
SIDNEY LUMET sits in a control booth inside a truck stationed alongside the Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens. Instead of imagining how the scene before him will look on the big screen, Mr. Lumet, the director of "The Pawnbroker" and "Serpico," faces a bank of video monitors, judging how his latest sequence will play within the confines of a television set.
 After 42 films and five Academy Award nominations, the 76-year-old Mr. Lumet is serving as executive producer and principal director of a courtroom drama called "100 Centre Street," which will have its premiere on A&E on Jan. 15. Conventional wisdom has it that a move from film to television is a step down the professional ladder. And it's true that Mr. Lumet probably wouldn't be making the transition if his movie career were still flourishing the way it was in the 60's and 70's. But he had another reason for taking on a small-screen project at this point: he was looking forward to returning to his roots. 
 Mr. Lumet first learned the director's craft by turning out live television dramas in the 1950's. And he has a special affection for his early television years, an exhilarating time when, as he put it, "nobody knew enough to say no; we were making it up as we went along." He hopes that his latest project will combine the best of new and old: he intends to use recent video advances to help recapture some of the pioneering spirit and sense of spontaneity that characterized his earliest work in the medium.
If it weren't for changes in the television business, he said, he would have remained there. "I never left television," he said. "I always felt it left me."
He is not the only the veteran of 1950's television who has returned to the medium recently. Arthur Penn served a stint this season as an executive producer of "Law and Order," and Norman Jewison has directed a version of the Pulitzer Prize-winning play "Dinner With Friends" to be broadcast later this year by HBO. But Mr. Lumet stands apart by taking on the duties of a principal creator for a weekly series.
Mr. Lumet joined CBS in 1950, just two years after Milton Berle turned TV sets into a hot commodity. After a technical apprenticeship, Mr. Lumet directed episodes of "Danger," a mystery anthology series, and "You Are There," which presented historical events in news-report style; both were broadcast live. From there he moved on to such prestigious drama anthologies as "Kraft Television Theater," "The Best of Broadway" and "Philco Television Playhouse." His live productions included Tennessee Williams's "The Fugitive Kind" and Robert Penn Warren's "All the King's Men."
Television taught him some crucial lessons. Along with a solid understanding of cameras and lenses, he acquired a Zen-like acceptance of constant pressure. "This sounds like a very strange thing to say, but I think it's very important that you care deeply about the work and also know it's not life or death," he said. "The knowledge that there's another one next week does two things: it gives you terrific courage, because if you blow it, so what, you have another chance in a few days; and it also relaxes you. I just don't believe in tension. I believe it's a very destructive force in any work. And the relaxation I got from that experience is something that never left me."
He would take these lessons with him to his film work. He directed his first movie in 1957, the memorable "12 Angry Men" -- and received his first Oscar nomination -- but he would not leave television completely for another three years. Paradoxically, it was the use of film in television that eventually drove Mr. Lumet into the feature film world full time.
By the end of the 1950's, filmed shows had effectively replaced live broadcasts. This was a matter of economics: after a live program was broadcast, it drifted into the ether. A filmed show moved on to the lucrative rerun market.
"To me, filmed TV combined the worst aspects of both worlds," Mr. Lumet said. "You lost the advantage of live performance. And you never had the time to go for the visual perfection that you can in movies."
For years he had no inclination to return to television. But he did revisit it, in a way, with his most honored film, "Network," a ferocious satire of what TV had become since he and the screenwriter, Paddy Chayefsky, had learned their craft in the medium.
Mr. Lumet denies that he was harboring any bitterness about broadcasting at the time. He maintains that television was merely a stand-in for the larger target of commercial exploitation, "how everything is grist for one mill or another."
Still, he also says that he has had little interest in watching anything on television for many years. His focus remained on movies through the 80's and 90's, even though most of his films during that time did not attract much critical or popular attention. He's happy with some of them, like "Daniel" and "Q&A," but at the same time, he said, "I'm no baby -- I know that pictures have to hit a certain commercial level or else they just stop asking you." The more commercial he tried to be, the worse the results. Referring to his 1992 film, "A Stranger Among Us," he said, "My idea of a commercial hit was Melanie Griffith joining up with a bunch of Hasidim."
An intriguing television prospect came Mr. Lumet's way when George Clooney approached him about directing the live broadcast of "Fail Safe" last spring. But Mr. Lumet, who had directed the 1964 film version of the story, decided against it. "I just couldn't get my motor going about redoing something I had done so many years ago," he said. The job went to the film director Stephen Frears.
Mr. Lumet's return to television began two years ago when NBC commissioned him to write a pilot. He was not looking for small-screen work at the time, but, he said, the network made a financial offer "that literally I could not refuse." The result was "100 Centre Street," a story about the people who inhabit night court in Manhattan. NBC eventually passed on it, but executives at A&E read the script and decided to make the pilot the springboard for the cable network's first dramatic series.
Mr. Lumet was initially reluctant to take on the long-term commitment of producing and directing a weekly program. Then, according to Allen Sabinson, A&E's senior vice president of programming, the network suggested shooting the series on high-definition video. When Mr. Lumet saw a demonstration of the format, his own ideas began to fall into place.
He was impressed by the sharpness and detail of Sony's high-definition system, which incorporates twice as much visual information as traditional video. "What was so exciting about this Sony camera was that it gave me what my eye saw," he said. "That began to thrill me because being primarily a realistic director, and not a high-style director, that reality has always been important to me."
HE agreed to take on the series if he could at least partly revert to his old ways. In a modified live-television style, he would tape scenes with three high-definition cameras, allowing the actors to perform sequences without stopping for new setups. A&E agreed, but Mr. Lumet recalls that the network had some concerns. The live-on-tape technique has been standard practice in sitcoms for years but a rarity in prime-time drama series.
"The people at A&E said the audience isn't used to this," he said. "They're used to the way the filmed episodic dramas look. And I said, 'Well, you think they're not used to it but they actually are, you just don't think of it in those terms.' The two most watched things on TV, the news shows and sports events, are all done in a similar way. So they're far more familiar with it than they know."
In the control room outside Kaufman Astoria, the three monitors that Mr. Lumet faces display the camera angles that cover the courtroom scene being shot on a soundstage. A fourth monitor shows the angles he selects as the scene unfolds. In one sense, it brings to mind an afternoon soap opera, another live-on-tape genre. But the high-definition video brings a richer texture to the images and much more subtle shading.
"I'm excited about this method because of the kind of energy that the live technique will provide for the actors," Mr. Lumet said.
Mr. Sabinson believes that ultimately viewers won't even notice the technique. "After watching two days of dailies you don't think about what the show's recorded on," he said. "The immediacy gives it a quality like eavesdropping."
If viewers respond to both the modified live method and the "100 Centre Street" concept, then Mr. Lumet could have a long-running series on his hands. Is he interested in making television his home again at this point in his career?
He is not ready to say just yet. He says he would be interested in returning to true live television drama if the right project came along, but he stresses that the medium is not as important as the stories he tells.
"One thing I know is that the pursuit of a hit is over for me," he said. "More important is that it's something I care about doing. If I can get that on television, fine. If I can get that in movies, I'll do it in movies. If I can get it in theater, I'll do theater. I don't care about the money. I just want to get some good work done."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sidney Lumet, right, on the set of the new A&E series "100 Centre Street." (Eric Liebowitz/A&E) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); THEATER (57%) TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT NETWORK 

PERSON: LUMET, SIDNEY; EVERITT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: 100 CENTRE STREET (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



125 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3207 words

HEADLINE: Fixing, For Now, The Image Of Jazz 

BYLINE:  By BEN RATLIFF 

 BODY:
THERE is an essay from 1956 titled "The Bibulous Aunt," found in the jazz critic Whitney Balliett's new "Collected Works," and its theme statement is this: "Until the past five or so years, jazz has been widely regarded in this country as a kind of queer Victorian aunt who laces her tea, belches in public and uses improper amounts of rouge."
 Whether you agree with him or not, consider the fact that jazz, at one time, could be defined by a single notion. For the last 45 years, jazz has fishtailed all over the place. It has been, among other things, working-class beer-joint music; poker-faced avant-classical composition; cultural rebellion for pre- and post-hippies; an acceptably melodious background music for the red-suspender crowd; piercingly electric; soothingly acoustic. It has also been a manifesto of futurism and of aesthetic retreat; solo clarinet and full brassy orchestra; swinging and un-swinging; American and Russian; black and white and everything in between. What it is, exactly, will be argued forever. 
 Ken Burns's 10-part, 19-hour documentary "Jazz" -- which begins tomorrow night at 9 on PBS, striking with a heavier thump than any previous document about the music -- may once again establish a "generalized" notion of what jazz is. The film will not change what jazz has become, not even a bit. But by the force of its marketing campaign (backed by General Motors), and also by the force of its storytelling and handling of images, "Jazz" will fix in the minds of millions of Americans a particular set of notions when the word jazz is uttered: A serious and heroic undertaking. An art of erotic depth and trigonometric accuracy. An entirely American invention mirroring the ideals of democracy. A kind of moral endeavor to make black and white worlds intersect in America. A responsible accounting of the shared history of the races. A welcoming gesture to all Americans, no matter their cultural background. A means of coming into one's own maturity.
The image of jazz as the bibulous aunt doesn't hold much water anymore in American culture, but if Mr. Burns's film does its job, that image will be erased. We're talking about 40 million viewers if the program is watched as widely as his "Civil War" series was; 200,000 copies of an accompanying book already shipped; 150,000 orders already taken for a five-CD companion boxed set from Columbia/Verve and 22 single-disc anthologies of artists featured in the movie. And there's little doubt that "Jazz" will be used as a teaching device in schools, as his "Civil War" and "Baseball" documentaries are.
Whatever its virtues as a television series, "Jazz" has not been much liked by jazz critics. (A great many of them would like to see the aunt return, in some form; anything to loosen jazz up, to make it repeat itself less often, to make it less cowed and awed by its own history.) It is a documentary with a grave tone that doesn't try to be comprehensive and fumbles in its treatment of the last 40 years of the music. It is a great-man-theory movie, settling heavily on a few figures -- Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Benny Goodman, Charlie Parker, Miles Davis.
Mr. Burns admits, in the introduction to the companion book (Knopf), that before he started making this documentary six years ago he had "perhaps two" jazz albums in his "fairly large music collection." What he does claim to know is American history, and he saw to it that jazz's history would become woven into extra-musical events. Much of the film follows a middle-of-the-road version of jazz history, but most of its quirks are directly attributable to a small number of critics and musicians, including Wynton Marsalis, Stanley Crouch, Albert Murray and Gary Giddins, who are used extensively as commentators in the film.
BUT its major thematic device is effective, and would not come naturally to a music-focused jazz historian. It is to show what happens when American whites and blacks encounter each other, not in the abstract but person to person, and make some sort of connection. Mr. Burns has said that he regards his three PBS documentaries -- "Civil War," "Baseball" and "Jazz" -- as a trilogy about race in America. And the film repeatedly goes out of its way to give us the reactions -- through eyewitness accounts, letters, old films -- of young Americans coming to terms with their counterparts of other skin tones.
We are told, by Mr. Marsalis, that minstrelsy was "the beginning of a long relationship between blacks and whites and black entertainment and white appropriation of it . . . and this strange dance that we've been doing with each other since, really, the beginning of our relationship in America. It's too close; it's too deep a story, so you have to degrade the relationship." We are told the full story of Armstrong's adoption by the Karnofskys, a Jewish family in New Orleans who delivered coal to whorehouses, and reminded that he wore a Star of David. We are made to understand the social fluidity of Ellington and James Reese Europe, the premier black society band leader around the years of World War I -- both of whom may have experienced discomfort in their encounters with white patrons but never let on. The film treats them as examples: they were great as men, not just as musicians. You see the white members of Chicago's Austin High Gang traveling to the South Side to see black jazz for the first time. Dave Brubeck tells the story of the first time he met a black person -- a man sitting by the side of the Sacramento River who had a brand on his body.
You see Josephine Baker's great quotation -- "the white imagination is sure something when it comes to blacks" -- borne out by a letter from Bix Beiderbecke to his brother, which buzzes in high teenage naivete about wanting to meet "real jazz niggers." And then the circle comes back around, as you hear about Armstrong enthusiastically going to hear Beiderbecke play in Chicago, not once but several nights in a row. Whenever possible, Mr. Burns has black commentators talk about white performers, and vice-versa; this may sound trivial, but in the world of jazz commentary, which is still dominated by whites, it is a big deal.
Middle-of-the-road "Jazz" may be much of the time in its selection and depiction of individual figures. But it is still quite different from most histories of the music. First of all, jazz is presented as part of American history -- not just artistic history, but the history of our wars, social programs, taste in clothing, civil laws, migrations, economic ups and downs. It sometimes seems that there is more film in the documentary containing no jazz musicians than film that does. But nonmusical moments in "Jazz" build up to demonstrations of how Americans felt in their bones about jazz.
It is an emotional rendering of the history, many times more so than the most purple written text. Ossie Davis, ad-libbing in Episode 8, describes Charlie Parker as "a golden cleaver that could cut to the bone and release forces that we didn't know were there . . . his anguish as a black man was folded into his relationship to the saxophone." And the deaths of the mothers of Ellington and Billie Holiday are positioned as key moments in the film, tantamount to their greatest artistic breakthroughs.
The film presents a strikingly black version of the story, partly through the narrative devices of Mr. Burns and his writer, Geoffrey C. Ward, but more through the casual language of some of the commentators. This comes through often, in Mr. Davis's insight; in Mr. Crouch's on-camera assertion that "negro Americans are not predisposed to follow people"; in Gerald Early's statement, rather against the stereotype of black jazz musicians as bons vivants, that black people are particularly good at capturing the loneliness of the human condition.
And while the film has the feel of a gentle, omniscient, mainstream work of history, it contains one major stance: it is stubbornly Americanist. You would never know that jazz exists in other countries; over and over we hear that jazz is an American music through and through. For the most part, it is, but the film is silent about Africa, Cuba and the French Caribbean. Even though "Jazz" goes out of its way to chronicle jazz's relationship to dancing, when it spends a few minutes on the Charleston, it leaves out the evidence suggesting that the dance derives from the Congo. (Part of the problem here is the film's rigorous maintenance of the old saw that jazz is "democracy in action" -- a facile way to understand a music that can also be perfectly autocratic.)
What makes "Jazz" different from Mr. Burns's previous works is that it is a restoration project; it has the undercurrent of a plea. No matter how he tells a story, he valorizes its players. There's a particular tone to this. It is in the deep, mellifluous voice of Keith David, the film's narrator, making every action of a jazz musician richly portentous. (It's like God narrating a slide show.) It is in the out-of-control hyperbole that floods the entire film, both in Mr. Ward's script and in the contributions of the talking-head experts. The great Art Tatum, for example, may call for a special set of adjectives, but the script gushes over, saying that "he had an ear for pitch so uncanny he could tell the difference between a penny and a dime dropped on a table by the sound it made." Well, probably so can you; and Tatum, who was mostly blind, surely had sharper hearing than the sighted.
As for the musician talking heads: jazz musicians, by and large, are a misty, sensitive bunch, and sometimes when interviewing them you have to get musician-talk out of the way first, talk of vibe and flow and hookups and spirituality. Mr. Burns didn't get enough of it out of the way. (There are exceptions, like Artie Shaw, a tough, unsmiling character with an accurate memory, and Jackie McLean, who talks as if he's tired of pieties.)
Wynton Marsalis, who is listed in the credits as senior creative consultant, is used more than any other talking head, as an eyewitness, critic, commentator and theorist. He is necessary for what this film is trying to do; very good at describing the early days in New Orleans, well-practiced enough in playing the entire range of music to demonstrate things with a trumpet and mimic the cross-play of sections within a band. (Translating the mysteries of jazz to a general audience is one of Mr. Marsalis's greatest gifts: He was also the host of a 26-part 1995 NPR series about jazz, "Making the Music," which is now being rebroadcast.)
He is handy with large ideas about the nature of art and what jazz means to America. Jazz, he says, is like "real poor people in the country."
"On a Sunday, people would get dressed up and they wouldn't have any money," he says, but they did have "that little hat with the flower on it." The flower, he says, "represents a certain thing -- just a little something to make you special and make you sweet. That's jazz music."
Mr. Marsalis is overly indebted to the writer Albert Murray, and when given a broad subject -- like why improvisation is primary in jazz -- he will start talking about myth: kingdoms and dragons and castles. That's Mr. Murray's trademark, and it's a pity that these comments don't come from the older man when he comes on-screen. Whether particular ideas originate with Mr. Marsalis or not, if you're familiar with the outline of his thought, you will start to notice something about "Jazz": beyond Mr. Burns's original visual style and pacing, and his overarching idea of meeting-between-races, the film is basically Mr. Marsalis's.
Like all jazz historians, Mr. Burns has a bilevel story to tell -- day and night, above- and below-board. If a piano player could drink a quart of scotch during a recording session, or had a heroin habit, or an abusive streak, for American jazz fans such behavior has as much to do with his greatness as does his grasp of harmony or rhythm. Jazz musicians feel this double bind; Mr. Shaw threw in the towel because of it, and it may have driven Beiderbecke and Parker, among others, to early deaths. It's too late to change this kind of biography, and Mr. Burns knows it; wisely, he plays both sides, rubbing high artistic claims up against the seamy stories. Still, he's inconsistent: the complex Benny Goodman gets a full-bodied portrait; the entrepreneur John Hammond does not. (Hammond's sequences are missing the voice of the critic Otis Ferguson, who wrote a sharp, catty essay about Hammond's bossiness and snobbery; if included, Ferguson's candor would undercut Hammond's simplified role in the film as a race-crossing hero.)
Aside from Mr. Burns's techniques -- the slow panning shots across still photos, the expert, intelligent use of soundtracking -- he has also found some rare films that communicate like crazy. One is of Armstrong singing "Dinah" to a European audience in the 30's. That clip alone, I am guessing, will sell a lot of Armstrong records in the coming year. The same might be true for Ellington, who is shown in stunning concert clips from the 1940's; for Count Basie, who seems the cool-headed captain of a precision crew; and for Dizzy Gillespie, who comes across as the wild, sexy character he was in the 1940's.
Mr. Burns also seems to have built a reservoir of images of Times Square and poor black children, and whenever there is nothing in particular to show, he inserts them. The film is slow and grows repetitive, but repetition is part of Mr. Burns's technique: he is quieting your mind so that you will accept the film's stars as heroes. And heroism is easier to portray in slow motion.
Armstrong is treated well: there are extended disquisitions on the duality of his show-business professionalism and his soul, his schmaltz and his art. But with Ellington, Mr. Burns finally lands in a dead end. Taken as a whole, the Ellington material ranks among the film's best; but the last point made by the film is that he was impossible to understand. After hundreds of recordings, thousands of shows, 50 years of interviews, the finest musical analysis that universities can sponsor, to sum up Ellington this way is a bit of a cop-out. It's a literary point, as opposed to an aesthetic one, and it isn't much help.
ELLINGTON is a test of any thesis-minded jazz historian. He is implicated in one of the film's richest ironies: after all its specificity about racial matters, we arrive at Ellington, who mostly refused to talk about race. (He was this way too about jazz: he made wild verbal pirouettes in his reluctance to define it.) But why saddle Ellington with unnameability when jazz still doesn't know what to do with the mystery of the proto-jazz trumpeter Buddy Bolden? There are no recordings of Bolden, just conflicting accounts, one blurry photograph. Yet Mr. Burns's film discusses him vividly, talking about his musical innovations as if they were there for us to hear.
The film's extravagant dollops of American history seem to replace an attempt to discuss what lies outside the main body of jazz. It's too bad. The porousness of jazz -- because it is a musician's art more than a composer's art -- is central to a clear understanding of it. I think it was a mistake not to include anything about various satellite genres, including western swing, klezmer and rhythm-and-blues; that there's little more than a peep of Latin jazz since the 1940's is weird indeed.
"Jazz" reaches its high point at the end of the swing era, a period when both the commercial and the hardcore swing bands had an awesome sheen and the horrors of World War II added a special hunger to America's love for the music. When the war ended, jazz became a cult music again, and musicians began to look impassive on the bandstand, as if they had nothing to prove beyond their music. Here, suddenly, the film begins to run out of steam. There's not the visual grandeur of the big bands, the sharp clothes, for Mr. Burns to play with; the verbal cliches march onward; someone who has read the basic jazz histories can almost anticipate what the script will say about Parker, Miles Davis, Paul Desmond and Thelonious Monk. The hyperbole of the narrative becomes surreal by Episode 9, when every new figure is garlanded with superlatives so fat and rich that they become meaningless.
The film's heroes of the last 40 years are Dexter Gordon -- not so much for his influence as a musician as for his archetypal story of a jazzman gone abroad who returns home to find a new audience for jazz -- and, of course, Wynton Marsalis. The "avant-garde" is summed up by bits about the Art Ensemble of Chicago, which is almost ridiculed by the process of editing, and Cecil Taylor, the only musician in the film to be disrespected by one of its talking heads. (The honors are given to Branford Marsalis, who seems to have been set up; he was fed a casual remark of Mr. Taylor's, and his condemnation of it can be mistaken as a condemnation of Mr. Taylor in general.)
Among the events not discussed in the last episode -- I'm sorry to sound like all the other critics, but here we go -- are: the musical impact and death of Bill Evans; Jimmy Smith and soul-jazz (beyond a sentence); hard bop (beyond a sentence); Henry Threadgill; Michael Brecker; any of Ornette Coleman's activities beyond his arrival in New York; the influential harmonic approach of Paul Bley; the striking popularity of Keith Jarrett; Julius Hemphill, David Murray and the New York "loft jazz" era; Steve Coleman; the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Big Band and modern large-ensemble writing; the growth of jazz festivals; and the larger meaning of Jazz at Lincoln Center.
According to Mr. Burns, this is what happened in the 1970's: the deaths of Ellington and Armstrong, the start of Miles Davis's jazz-rock period and the stateside return of Dexter Gordon. When it comes to fusion, the film gets hopelessly square. The script talks about the use of "electronic bass," instead of electric, and Mr. Early trots out the Robert Frost quip about playing tennis without a net. The 1980's and 90's are a quick stream of images with no context. Mr. Burns has explained, in his defense, that he did the same thing with "Baseball" -- cut short its recent history -- because the present is the province of journalists, not historians.
I'd suggest that jazz is different from baseball because the game keeps changing. If you are 12 years old and see clips of Ted Williams, you will persuade your parents to buy tickets to a baseball game, and you will be satisfied: baseball, now, is sufficiently similar to what it was then. If you are 12 and see film clips of Duke Ellington, you will persuade your parents to buy a Duke Ellington record. What will the film do for the sake of live jazz, other than Mr. Marsalis and the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra? Not much, beside suggesting that the last 40 years has been uneventful. Sorry, kid.
Viewers, remember: it is a film about jazz, not the film about jazz. It is special and memorable and at times exciting. But the greatest service it could provide for the world would be to initiate other films about jazz that might be more educational about music, less isolationist and long-winded.
And, Lord, give me no more gumbo metaphors.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Duke Ellington in Paris in 1958. He figures heavily in Ken Burns's great-man approach to the history of jazz in a 10-part series on PBS beginning tomorrow. (Herman Leonard)(pg. 1); Miles Davis is one of a handful of musicians who loom large in the Burns film. (Lee Tanner); Billie Holiday in New York in 1948: placed in an emotional rendering of history. (Herman Leonard)(pg. 32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); MUSIC (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); FILM (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%) TELEVISION; REVIEWS; JAZZ; MUSIC 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: RATLIFF, BEN; BURNS, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (64%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: JAZZ (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



126 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
'Flex' Buildings Offer Versatility Plus Lower Rent

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
IT used to be that office tenants would set up operations in sleek high-rise buildings and that light industrial users in need of an office would carve out a corner of a warehouse, put up walls, move in desks and install telephones and computers.
 But the lines between pure office and industrial functions have been increasinglyblurred in recent years, most notably, perhaps, by the growth of high-technology businesses. At the same time, rental rates for office space continues to rise. 
 The result, several commercial brokers said, is that companies are turning to high-technology "flex" buildings, which give them sophisticated office space at a lower cost as well as space that can serve other purposes under one roof, from storage to light assembly to research and development. Developers are responding with a spate of low-rise flex structures, about 10 buildings totaling 889,000 square feet for nine northern and central New Jersey counties, which are being built, converted or planned, according to CB Richard Ellis, the commercial real estate services firm. 
Typically, flex buildings have one or two stories and are designed to look like office structures from the outside, with details like finished facades, large windows, landscaped grounds and sufficient parking. But they also have high ceilings, floors that can hold heavy loads and the loading docks required by many industrial tenants. Such space can also be carved into individual units, each with its own entrance and utilities.
The appeal is that it enables "tenants to have control of their space, of their destiny," said Jonathan Schultz, president of the Schultz Organization/TCN Worldwide, a real estate services firm in Woodbridge.
Developers and brokers said tenants in the market for such space included biotechnology, telecommunications, software, electronics and pharmaceutical companies that are expanding, consolidating or opening satellite offices in the state. There is also interest from high-technology companies, medical concerns and data processing and call centers.
Such buildings have been around for some time. But Thomas Mallaney, a first vice president at the Paramus office of CB Richard Ellis, said demand had surged in the last two years as tenants sought a less costly alternative to office space. Along with annual rents that are generally $18 a square foot, compared with $23 to $24 a square foot for office space, he said high-technology flex buildings were more efficient because of fewer common areas like lobbies and less expensive to operate because each office has individual meters for utilities. 
Many of the flex buildings are near existing highways, offering easy access, Mr. Mallaney said. For that reason, he added, "companies increasingly are using much and sometimes all of the space for offices."
Mr. Schultz said that was the case for many of the deals his firm does today, including the recent lease by JDS Uniphase, a supplier of fiber optics. Of the 80,000 square feet the company is renting in a flex building on Industrial Way in Eatontown, 90 percent is being used for offices, he said.
The market for such space, which encompasses about 6.5 million square feet in the nine counties, "still is a niche" within the overall commercial marketplace, Mr. Mallaney said, and the pace of production is conservative, keeping supply in balance with demand. In the the fourth quarter, his firm put the vacancy rate for such space at 4.9 percent, virtually unchanged from the figure in the period a year earlier.
Those factors, developers said, are what spurred them to proceed with their projects. 
In Rockaway in western Morris County, construction is scheduled to start by April on Rockaway Hills Commerce Center, a 251,445-square-foot, three-building high-technology flex park on 45 acres, off Green Pond Road and not far from major roads like Interstates 80 and 287. Each of the buildings, which will range in size from 78,000 to 87,400 square feet, will have 24-foot ceilings and glass curtain wall facades. The $17 million project is being developed by CalEAST Industrial Investors, a joint venture between Jones Lang LaSalle Development, the development arm of the Manhattan-based real estate services and management firm, and the California Public Employees Retirement System, or Calpers. 
Scott C. Coopchik, director of development for the northeast region at Jones Lang LaSalle, said the market for high-technology flex space was tight in this part of Morris County, where the vacancy rate is less than 3 percent. The plan, he added, is to build the buildings on speculation, without a tenant in place.
"With everyone trying to cut occupancy costs, flex space is a competitive option for tenants," he said. "If you can save 20 to 25 percent, and still have a beautiful setting, they'll say, 'Why not?' "
Mr. Coopchik said the asking per-square-foot rents would be $15 for office space and $8 for warehouse space, compared with $23 for pure office space in that part of the county. 
Underscoring the demand for such space in Morris County is the leasing activity at Montville Corporate Centre III in the Pine Brook section of Montville. Its developer, SK Realty and Development of Fairfield, recently completed the last building in the four-building, 530,000-square-foot park on 130 acres along Chapin Road, close to I-287. 
The structures at the two-year-old park range from 98,000 to 165,000 square feet and have 22-foot ceilings and brick facades. All are now nearly fully leased at rents of $16 a square foot for office space and $8 for warehouse space, according to Ted Buyer, executive vice president of the development company. He added that the demand was greater than the supply for well-developed high-technology space.
In Sayreville in Middlesex County, First Industrial Trust of Montville is constructing two speculative high-technology flex buildings, each with 60,000 square feet. They will take shape at its Sayreville Business Center on the Main Street extension, just behind the toll booths at Exit 124 of the Garden State Parkway.
"The increasing cost of pure office space and decreasing vacancy rate is causing tenants that do not need glitz or glamour to look for an alternative," said Hayden Tiger, the company's regional director. Occupancy is expected by June, he said, noting that asking rents are $14 a square foot for office space and $7 a square foot for nonoffice space. 
Some developers see such space as the future of old industrial buildings. W. P. Commercial L.L.C of Chatham will begin work this summer on converting the 150,000-square-foot former Channel Lumber warehouse on 15 acres along Route 10 in Hanover into a flex building. The company is a recently formed venture between the Whitehall Fund, an affiliate of Goldman, Sachs & Company, and the senior management of Wellsford Commercial Properties Trust of Chatham.
The company bought the empty single-story building for among other reasons its location, one-eighth of a mile from a four-way interchange of I-287, said Mark Schaevitz, its chief operating officer for the New York region. He said his company's experience with this type of property included revamping the old Estee Candy warehouse in Parsippany into the 225,000-square-foot Morris Technology Center. And it also plans a similar conversion for a former 240,000-square-foot warehouse on 47 acres off Route 202 in Bridgewater. 
"We look for infill locations that are next to new multistory offices and can be renovated to provide tenants with quality offices at a lower rent, as well as the 'optionality' to combine offices with other uses," Mr. Schaevitz said. Those benefits, he added, will only increase in importance if the economy slows and "when things in the commercial marketplace are less than perfect." 
Mr. Schaevitz said asking rents at the projects, which will be marketed to both single users and multiple tenants, would be "several dollars cheaper" than new multistory office buildings in the area. That means $26 to $27 a square foot at the Hanover project, he said, adding that rents at the Bridgewater development, while not yet set, are expected to be similar.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A former Channel Lumber warehouse on Route 10 in Hanover is to be converted into a flex building. (Wellsford Commercial Properties Trust) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); CALL CENTERS (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (69%); LOBBYING (69%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (63%); FIBER OPTICS (63%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: CBRE GROUP INC (55%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (50%)

TICKER: CBG (NYSE) (55%); JDU (TSX) (50%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (67%) GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) HANOVER (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



127 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 3014 words

HEADLINE: The Lives They Lived: 01-07-01: Julian Carsey, b. 1935; 
Starting Over and Over and Over

BYLINE:  By Simon Winchester; Simon Winchester is the author of "The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity and the Making of the Oxford English Dictionary."

 BODY:
There used to be a comforting anonymity about Tom's Place, a smoky and moderately seedy bar on the waterfront in Jacksonville, Fla., where the barstools were invariably occupied by men and women who liked to drink a little and forget a lot. Corinne Silverton, who was studying to be a stockbroker after years as a part-time teacher in a series of nightmarish public schools, was a more-than-typical customer -- divorced, tired, unhappy and broke, she had a liking, entirely understandable, for nursing three quiet beers in an evening, hoping that while she was doing so the world that she felt had treated her so ill would leave her well alone. A companionable bartender named Doug helped to see that this was so: he made sure that Corinne's stool was always empty and ready for her, and that any unsavory characters -- who might well relish the prospect of an evening with an unhappy and vulnerable divorcee -- were kept at bay, or at least at a respectful distance. 
 Early one evening during the winter of 1993 -- not that winter has very much meaning in the hot concrete wasteland of this unappealing north Florida port -- Corinne came in to Tom's Place for her usual solace, only to discover that on her stool was sitting a shabby-looking and gray-bearded man, with a shot glass between his hands. He looked, she says now, like nothing so much as a retired and broken-down mailman. He was badly dressed and had a weary, lined, lived-in face and the red and rheumy eyes of a long-term drinker. She was about to protest the impertinence when Doug hushed her. You ought to meet this man, he told her, with a quiet insistence that she realized she should take seriously. "You'll find him interesting. His name is Jay Martin Adams." 
 And so Corinne Silverton sat down beside the unanticipated Jay Martin Adams that steamy January evening, and through the next many hours, helped by a few more beers on her part and by many more whiskeys on his, she listened patiently to the stories he had to tell. 
Of course it is axiomatic that all the drunks in all the waterfront bars the world around have stories to tell, all of which are long, most of which are incoherent and many of which are curious. Yet this particular story, ably related by this obviously well-educated stranger, while every bit as curious as expected, was also moving, poignant and, to some listeners perhaps, including Corinne Silverton, rather enviable.
Jay Martin Adams was not the mystery man's name, for a start. He was actually called Julian Nance Carsey -- this he confessed to Corinne a few days later -- and until one extraordinary moment some 11 years before he stepped down from a Trailways bus here in Jacksonville, he was known by that name to a wide and loving circle of family, friends and colleagues. But then came a moment -- an epiphany to some few, the start of an unfolding of a nightmare for many others -- that had its climacteric on the morning of Wednesday, May 19, 1982.
As goes the cliche, the day began with its ordinary-enough routines. Julian Carsey, known as Jay, then the president of Charles County Community College in the corn-and-tobacco country of La Plata, Md., had his usual breakfast, said a polite goodbye to his wife, Nancy, told her that he was off to the dentist and remarked casually that he would see her later. He omitted, Nancy would later recall, to give her the usual obligatory peck on the cheek. He drove off in his black Chevrolet Caprice, pausing only to grumble at the yardmen who seemingly weren't cutting the lawn to his liking. He drove away from his impressive and historically designated house in Pomfret, Md. But he did not go, as was supposed, to his faux-colonial office in La Plata nearby, nor indeed did he call in at the dentist. 
Instead, he telephoned his secretary and asked her to cancel his appointment. He told her to tell Nancy that he might have to go to Philadelphia to see his sister. He went to the bank, withdrew $28,000 and converted it into traveler's checks. He drove to what then was still called Washington National Airport, parked his car and put his keys carefully into what is still quaintly called the glove compartment, dropped five already-written letters and one postcard into the mailbox, walked casually up to the check-in counter for Pan Am and bought himself a one-way ticket to Houston. He went into the Clipper Club, poured himself a handful of vodkas and, an hour or so later, having met no one he knew, poured himself onto the plane.
The letters and postcard duly arrived and were duly read the following day. To the chairman of the college's board of trustees, Jay Carsey announced his resignation. To the college dean, he sent an enigmatic five-word note with a postscript that said, with magnificent economy, "pls handle." And to his wife, by now distraught and frightened and horrified by an event of which she had no more expectation than an asteroid strike, he wrote: "I am leaving because I know you can't. I am a physical and psychological disaster." 
He directed her to a tape recording he had left in his desk, which explained nothing, but gave her some details to make the practical consequences of her abandonment less trying. And that, effectively, was that. Thirty-odd hours had passed, and the former college president and community pillar was now buried deep in the vast dusty wen of Texas, having for all intents and purposes vanished off the face of the civilized earth, transported as far from the groves of academe as if he were on the surface of Mars. 
Nearly fifty years ago Philip Larkin wrote what remains the most classically insightful poem about the seductive powers of running away. It includes the line: "He chucked up everything and just cleared off."
What haunts most of those who read it is the undeniable approval that Larkin implied and that he suspects, with a poet's wisdom, all of us feel -- a visceral approval for what he termed this audacious, purifying, elemental move. Moreover, Larkin writes, "I'd go today,/Yes, swagger the nut-strewn roads,/Crouch in the fo'c'sle/Stubbly with goodness, if/It weren't so artificial,/Such a deliberate step backwards/ To create an object:/Books; china; a life/Reprehensibly perfect."
Jay Carsey chose to try to make a life for himself that was just that -- reprehensibly perfect. In trying to do so he made a gesture that must seem quite wonderfully bold and courageous to the millions for whom, as Thoreau once said, the quiet desperation of their humdrum lives has become too much. And it was because Jay Carsey tried, and because those remaining millions did not, that so many seem to find all that he did so desperately fascinating.
Only Corinne Silverton knows (or thinks she knows) the story of Jay Carsey in full -- since she lived with him until the end of the tape that was his life, or his lives. Nancy Carsey -- now remarried and living in Baltimore -- knew only the years that ended when her husband, who was then 47, drove off in his Caprice that day in 1982 and drove so brutally out of her life. And Dawn Carsey, who was to become his second wife, in Texas, three years later, knew only the second act, since after seven years of relative contentment he went on to leave her as well. But Corinne Silverton, who befriended him on that night in Florida, has now heard the entire story; and with her unique benefit of a singular lack of bitterness about the man -- for when he left her in August, it was most certainly not of his own choosing -- she seems able to look with the kind of disinterestedness of which Philip Larkin would approve at the phenomenon that was Julian Nance Carsey and his barely explicable career of serial disappearances.
The mechanics of that first evanescence are suggestive of desperation and perplexity. Jay Carsey spent only a short time in Houston. He thought at first about going off to Australia -- he and Nancy, who as a couple had been inveterate travelers, had been there before, and he had always loved the place. So he flew off to San Diego, from where he thought, unaccountably, that he might get a trans-Pacific flight. But in fact all he did there was go "trolling for women," as a 1989 book, "Exit the Rainmaker," had it, and then spend an entire afternoon sitting on a bench at the zoo and cutting up his 28 credit cards -- making it all but impossible, he then found out, to rent a car and drive to Tijuana. (More than a few of Jay Carsey's decisions like this call into question the widely held view that he was highly intelligent: those who met him, however, insist he was, and say this merely showed his panic and bewilderment.)
By the end of his stay in California he had more or less consolidated an exit strategy that had, in a sense, now been forced upon him. Without a home and, moreover, now without any plastic to his name, Jay Carsey had become, in American terms, a nonperson. He converted the traveler's checks back into cash by fibbing to a San Diego bank that he was a yacht broker needing sudden liquidity. He chose a new name (selecting the middle name Martin in a nod to a lawyer relation from Dallas who had managed to keep one of Bonnie and Clyde's cronies out of the electric chair -- a nice touch, he thought, given that he was now part outlaw himself). And he gave the title Jay Martin Adams its first airing by using it (before the days when airlines needed photo ID's) to fly east again, this time to one of the more insalubrious towns in Texas: El Paso. 
Here, among the dust and the shanties and the cockroaches, this Social-Security-number-less droog checked into the Y.M.C.A., found himself a bar, stopped bathing and changing his clothes and began living the new life with all the frantic nostalgie de la boue that one might expect -- a reaction, some would say, to all those years of respectability and stiff-necked socializing back in Maryland. He started chugging the vodkas and the whiskeys by the vatful, experimenting with whores in Chihuahua, teaching English to indigent Mexicans, lending money to win friends, smuggling gold, getting himself thrown in jail, eventually buying a share in a bar among the strip clubs and gin joints conveniently close to the local air base. A college president brought to this, he would doubtless say to himself, and would laugh and feel liberated and delighted in equal measure.
But lonely too. The temporary comforts of purchased one-night stands had, inevitably, a steadily diminishing allure. By the end of that summer he had encountered in the bar a woman as needy as himself -- a tough, thrice-married pool-playing city worker named Dawn Garcia. And over the coming months he placed his affairs in sufficient order to enable him to marry again -- largely by making two trips back East to be divorced from Nancy, neither speaking a word to her when they met in court nor even exchanging a glance, and offering little explanation or comfort to those old friends he saw. 
His new marriage lasted seven years. While by most accounts it was stormy -- with strong drink playing its usual corrosive part -- during this period Jay Carsey did begin to claw himself back up the ladder of respectability. True, when matters became tense between the pair he ran away again, briefly, and then returned, prodigal, his tail between his legs. And then an article duly appeared in People magazine /- "a quiet college president solves job stress his way: one day he just disappears" -- and Dawn and the down-at-heel barflies with whom the couple liked to associate and who recognized him from his photo in the magazine had to accept that he was something of a celebrity. But none of this stopped him from getting a new job back on the periphery of his old profession: he was offered, by an obviously very trusting president, a post teaching math at the El Paso Community College. Soon afterward -- since his students adored him and his staff colleagues found him charming and impressive -- he was offered an even more established post as an assistant dean. But this, smacking of the kind of stability that he no longer seemed to want, he smartly turned down.
What he did take was a job with the United States Air Force, working as a temporary teacher on a series of overseas bases. He and Dawn thus spent three years, until 1988, traveling between Greece and Germany, England and Turkey, Holland and the Azores, shuttling relentlessly between officers' quarters and living with government furniture and art, living a life that was no more than they both seemed to want -- a federally financed hymn to utter rootlessness.
Then they came back to Texas and to the veneer of permanence once more. And with this next period of fixity, so the fights and the arguments set in -- until just before Christmas 1992, when Jay Martin Adams drove to the airport, dropped his car in short-term parking and put the keys in the glove compartment, took a plane to Miami, spent a few sick, spiritless days in a cheap hotel by the sea -- and then boarded the northbound Trailways bus up I-95. 
Corinne Silverton met him at Tom's Place a few days later. He took her to an opera for their first date. Within a month, bowled over by his charm, his yarns, his exotic past, his intelligence and his beguiling helplessness, she had invited him to live with her. It was a replay, uncannily precise, of what happened with Dawn Garcia 10 years before -- except that this time he was being welcomed not into a small frame house in the old flyblown barrios of South Texas but into a flyblown but book-filled home in the modern cement wilderness that is downtown Jacksonville. 
And from that moment on, this melancholy, world-weary middle-aged woman, disappointed in her life and her loves almost since coming down to America from her birthplace on the high plains of Saskatchewan, began to preside over the remaining seven years of her strangely nomadic new friend's final phase of grounding. Corinne Silverton looked after Jay Carsey with a kindness and sympathy that seem to have been repaid by only brief moments of happiness and by long periods of despair. She watched with pride as he took jobs in a succession of local schools, she glowed in his reflected glory at the good reports he received, she took singular pleasure in the evident fondness that students and staff had for him, she happily traveled down to Mexico, on what was (since both were teachers) the pleasing respite of a school holiday for two. And all the while she watched with terrible sadness as the relentless chemistry of alcohol poisoning steadily stripped him of his health, his dignity, his ability and, eventually, his life.
Julian Nance Carsey died of cirrhosis of the liver on Aug. 20, at the age of 65. For two weeks no one in his immediate family claimed his body. (Corinne, being unrelated, felt reluctant to do so.) The sister whom he had said he would visit on that day he first vanished, back in 1982, never surfaced to express either regret or dismay. One good friend from Washington eventually paid for the funeral expenses, and early last September the man the residents of La Plata and Pomfret had all called Uncle Jay was reduced in a gas burner to a few ounces of gray ash.
Corinne Silverton is certain now that she knows just why he behaved the way he did. She largely discounts the psychiatrists' suggestions that he was internalizing his resentments -- that the budget cuts he was expecting at the college and his first wife's expensive tastes and the requirements of his social life were generating pressures on him about which he felt he could not talk, and with which he was mentally unable to deal. She also does not believe that he was ill -- other than physically, and such physical illnesses as he suffered came about entirely as a consequence of his heavy drinking. She rejects such modish notions that he was at the time of his vanishing in what psychologists term a "fugue" state, harmlessly divorced from reality, relentlessly irresponsible, incapable of dealing with the complex expectations of normal society.
Yet she will not say, specifically, what she believes it was that tipped Jay Carsey over the edge. She hints darkly that there were sinister reasons behind his decision to chuck up everything. Yes, she repeats -- sinister reasons. 
And in saying so, the tone of our conversation subtly shifts. Her body language changes -- her breathing gets a little faster, her face gets a little closer, a rime of perspiration appears on her upper lip -- in the way that you'd expect it to change if you were listening to a rant late at night in a waterfront bar, even though this conversation takes place over breakfast in the Jacksonville Hilton.
"He worked with the C.I.A., you know. He worked at Indian Head Naval Station, doing mysterious stuff. He traveled all over, for years, working for a program that was supposed to set up community colleges in strange places / Iran, Russia, countries like that. He knew some very strange people. He knew who Deep Throat was. And there were people gunning for him. People were out to get him. He told me -- he told me much more than he ever told Dawn or Nancy." 
I have little doubt that Silverton is a shrewd and sensible woman -- sad and brow-beaten maybe, and no doubt very gullible, but kind and courageous too -- and that she believes implicitly in what she has been told. Trusting Jay Carsey, or Jay Martin Adams, was for seven years a very cornerstone of her life. His claims, however bizarre, may well have served to fill a need in her -- to provide the vicarious thrill of an existence so much more satisfying than the dreariness of what otherwise stretched ahead. She scoffs at the idea and will offer only hints of other unspoken reasons.
"People like to say that he did what everyone dreams about -- he dropped out of society, he ran off," she explains to me. "It is much easier for everyone to believe that Jay simply liked to disappear, that it was all about a problem deep within himself. But in his case there was more to it than that -- much, much more. His story is so much more fascinating than you will ever know." 

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DEATHS (OBITUARIES) 

PERSON: CARSEY, JULIAN (1935-2000); WINCHESTER, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



128 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Endpaper: Wayne McAllister, b. 1907; 
The Guru of Googie

BYLINE:  By Phil Patton; Phil Patton writes frequently about automobiles and design.

 BODY:
Wayne McAllister was building Las Vegas before Bugsy Siegel ever showed up. In 1941, McAllister designed the city's first theme hotel, El Rancho Vegas, which featured among other things a neon windmill. So it was natural that Siegel would turn to McAllister in 1942 to renovate his first Vegas hotel, El Cortez. What was less predictable is that McAllister would later turn down the opportunity to design for the gangster the famed Flamingo. A dumb or brave man, you might say, but perhaps also a man who could foresee the future -- the Flamingo's financial collapse and the hail of bullets that would kill Siegel in his living room. 
 McAllister, who died in March at 92, outlived not only his clients but also most of his buildings. With their giant signs and dramatic architectural gestures, those buildings gave life to the Great American Strip, shaping not just Las Vegas but also the roads leading into and out of countless American cities. 
 In 1928, at age 20, McAllister won a competition to design the Agua Caliente in Tijuana, a sprawling casino hotel that soon became the favored retreat for Hollywood stars looking to escape prohibition. Its success led to commissions throughout Los Angeles -- chrome-and-glass bars that made Hollywood and Vine the corner; chic supper clubs like Lawry's and Cinegrill; and whimsical, circular drive-ins like Simon's and Melody Lane. 
McAllister never took himself too seriously (he junked his entire archive, for instance), and he expected his buildings to vanish like the big, curvaceous cars that inspired them. (One hardy survivor is the 1949 Bob's Big Boy in Toluca Lake, now an official California Point of Historical Interest.) His best-known work, the Sands -- with its 65-foot neon-script sign like the chrome badge on a Cadillac grille and its porte-cochere like a tail fin -- was imploded in 1996. It lives on now in photos and in movies like "Ocean's 11," the 1960 Rat Pack vehicle that celebrates a time and a way of life that, for many, exists most distinctly as the memory of Wayne McAllister's brightly colored lights and zigzags and curves, seen through a passing windshield. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gas-guzzling architecture: From top, the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas, famous Rat Pack hangout; the Melody Lane drive-in; the Hotel Agua Caliente in Tijuana, Prohibition hot spot; Bob's Big Boy, Toluca Lake, Calif., in 1998; Bob's Big Boy in the 50's, before it was a landmark. (Melody, Nichols Collection, Bob's (1998), Marshall Laplante, Marc Wanamaker/Bison Archives) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CASINOS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); SHOOTINGS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DEATHS (OBITUARIES); ARCHITECTURE 

PERSON: PATTON, PHIL; MCALLISTER, WAYNE (1907-2000) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) LAS VEGAS (NEV)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



129 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: THE GUIDE 

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
Nuclear Power Play
 Czechoslovakia's involuntary role as a potential nuclear power during the Cold War is the unusual theme of a play by Joe Sutton at Long Wharf in New Haven through Feb. 11. 
 Its title, "The Third Army," derives from the "economic" army of investors that descended on the country from America and its friends in the west, eager to complete and control the Soviet Union's unfinished Temelin nuclear power plant, built during its 40-year reign over Czechoslovakia. The Soviets gained control of the country in 1945 when the American Army was ordered to withdraw.
The collapse of the Soviet Union and the subsequent instability left in its wake gave rise on the one hand to some nostalgia for Communism and on the other, to ambivalence toward the United States. 
Performances are scheduled on Tuesday at 7; Wednesday through Friday at 8; Saturday at 4 and 8:30; Sunday at 2 and 7. Tickets are priced from $14 to $45. The theater is at 222 Sargent Drive, just off I-95. Information and tickets: (203) 787-4282.

Sci-Fi Thrillers
Rex Reason and Faith Domergue find a less than warm welcome from the dreaded Metaluna Mutant when they arrive on the planet Metaluna in the 1956 sci-fi thriller "This Island Earth." The second half of Saturday's double feature at the Memorial Boulevard Auditorium in Bristol stars James Arness as the "Thing From Another World," a modern Dracula from outer space who lives on human blood. Kenneth Tobey and Robert Cornthwaite are co-stars in the 1951 chiller.
The program begins at 7:30. Admission is $5 for adults, $1.50 for children six through 12. Information and directions: (860) 583-8306

Lacquered Boxes
Visitors to the Bruce Museum in Greenwich will learn that there is more to those handsome, intricately decorated lacquered boxes from Japan than meets the eye. A selection n of 50 exceptional boxes dating from the 15th through the mid-19th century is on exhibit at the museum through Feb. 18. The exhibition is organized by Harvard University's Arthur M. Sackler Museum from the private collection of Elaine Ehrenkranz. The boxes were used, as boxes usually are, to hold cosmetics, food, writing materials and so on. 
Lacquering is believed to have originated in China and Japan around 5,000 B.C., applied with increasingly complex techniques to ceramics, wooden objects and basketry. The substance is made from the sap of the rhus verniciflua, a deciduous tree that is a cousin of poison oak, poison ivy and poison sumac. Woe to the harvester, refiner or lacquer-maker who did not protect himself from horrific allergic reactions by exposing himself in small amounts until he became immune. Once hardened on the box, though, the lacquer is harmless.
Inlays, appliques and three-dimensional adornments of armor, flowers, carriages and architectural forms appear not only on the exterior but inside the lid of some pieces. The lacquered surfaces reveal an endlessly creative force at work to produce shimmering effects sometimes incorporating bits of metal in sparkling designs of gold and silver.
The museum, just off Exit 3 of I-95, is open Tuesday through Saturday from 10 to 5, Sunday from 1 to 5. Admission is $4, $3 for children and adults 65 and older. Information: (203) 869-0376.

'Space Odyssey'
The Westport Public Library will weigh in on the hoopla surrounding "2001: A Space Odyssey." Keir Dullea, Fairfield County's own star of the film, will appear at the library on Thursday at 7 p.m. to talk about clips as they appear on the screen and to take questions from the audience. 
The film is to be re-released internationally in February after a special showing in Berlin. 
The library is at Bernhard Plaza in downtown Westport. Information: (203) 227-8411.

Words on Pictures
Three Fairfield County cartoonists will regale visitors who show up at the Westport Library today at 2 p.m. with tales of how they make a living drawing pictures. 
Mel Casson, who illustrates the comic strip "Redeye," which is reproduced by King Features in more than 550 newspapers, has had five cartoon books published. His work has appeared in United Features publications, The Chicago Sun-Times Syndicate and numerous national magazines.
Dick Hodgins, a former editorial cartoonist for The Daily News, was something of child prodigy, having sold a cartoon to The New York Mirror at the age of 12, for $1. And Howard Munce, cartoonist for humorist Judith Marks-White, is the author of three art books, has produced cartoons for many area organizations and is a book editor-designer.

Brazilian Music
The flutist Paula Robison will appear on Saturday at 5 p.m. and again next Sunday at 3 p.m. in Old Lyme, performing a concert of Brazilian music with two Brazilian jazz musicians: Romero Lubambo, guitarist; and Cyro Baptista, percussionist. 
The flute figures prominently in South American music, lending a wild, birdlike quality to jazz or native works rooted in folk songs or created by the continent's classical composers. Ms. Robison will perform some classical works for solo flute as well.
The concert will be held at the First Congregational Church at the corner of Lyme Street and Ferry Road. Tickets at $20 may be reserved by calling (860) 434-2252. Student tickets at $5 are available for Sunday only.

Studying Landmarks
Architecture buffs, professionals and students of the discipline will want to have a look inside the Yale Art and Architecture Building now and through the spring. 
Opening tomorrow, through March 2, is an exhibition titled "Saving Corporate Modernism: Assessing Three Landmarks Designed by Gordon Bunshaft." They are Lever House in New York City (1952), the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company (1958) and the Emhart Manufacturing Company (1963), both in Bloomfield.
Adjunctive elements enhancing such corporate structures are represented by the sculpture of Isamu Noguchi, interior design by Florence Knoll and Raymond Loewy, and landscape design by Joanna Diman.
Lever House is undergoing restoration, but the two remaining Bunshaft buildings are threatened with demolition. 
The saving of corporate landmarks will be the subject of a seminar scheduled on Feb. 9 and 10 at the Art and Architecture Building, which was designed by Paul Rudolph during his tenure as chairman of the architecture department at Yale. 
"These buildings," said Robert A. M. Stern, dean of the School of Architecture, "are not only great examples of modern architecture but ones which are in a special category where architects, designers and their clients collaborated to establish new paradigms for American business. They are landmarks of the history of architecture and of the history of business."
Exhibitions to open in March will feature the work of Eero Saarinen and Koetter Kim & Associates. And the ongoing restoration of the Art and Architecture building itself, led by Dean Stern, will become part of the exhibition series. Galleries in the building at 180 York Street are open free of charge Monday through Friday from 9 to 5, Saturday from 10 to 5. Information: (203) 432-2292. ELEANOR CHARLES

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of 50 Japanese lacquered boxes, dating from the 15th through the mid-19th century, on exhibit at the Bruce Museum through Feb. 18.; Faith Domergue and the Metaluna Mutant are part of the sci-fi double feature Saturday at Bristol's Memorial Boulevard Auditorium. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (79%); THEATER (78%); CHILDREN (78%); POWER PLANTS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); ALLERGIES (60%); COSMETICS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



130 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Wanted: People to Collect All The Forgotten Money 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE WOODSIDE

 BODY:
JENNIFER SAMELA had forgotten about the savings account she set up for the 20th reunion of the Thomaston High School Class of 1975. Late last month, she noticed her name on a list of more than 22,000 people the Connecticut state treasurer's office is trying to find so they will claim their money.
 "We didn't have a 25th reunion," Ms. Samela said. That explains why the account she'd opened, with less than $100 left in it, ended up on the list. State laws required the bank holding the reunion funds to try to find depositors on dormant accounts, and, after five years, to turn the money over to the state treasurer. 
 Right now, the office of Connecticut State Treasurer Denise L. Nappier is holding $270 million that belongs to 500,000 people or their heirs who forgot or never knew about bank accounts, insurance policies, bonds, utility deposits, money orders, and similar assets held by Connecticut institutions.
Since September, a record number of people have inquired after amounts ranging from $50 to several thousand dollars, but they still represent a fraction of the total.
In three months, about 74,000 people asked after more than $9 million out of the $270 million in lost funds, said Bernard Kavaler, director of communications for the state treasurer's office. Of those, 45,000 of them filed claims.
"It's the strongest response we've ever had to an outreach effort like this," Mr. Kavaler said. "We received almost 45,000 e-mails alone."
Every two years, the state treasurer's office publishes new names of people "appearing to own abandoned property." The new list that came out late last month had 22,044 new names on it. In September, the list totaled 29,000. The campaign, with the theme of "Name It and Claim It," has a new web database with the address www.nameitandclaimit.org.
The unclaimed money remains in separate accounts and never reverts to the state, Mr. Kavaler said. The money earns interest, and when people claim their funds, they receive the accrued interest. He could not say what the interest rates are.
The situations leading to forgotten assets vary, he said. Forgotten insurance policies, old bank accounts, even the contents of neglected safe-deposit boxes. "A claim can be filed in perpetuity," he said. "If you can document that some funds we are holding are your great-grandmother's, and you have appropriate documentation that you're the legal heir, that money will be turned over to you."
He said one woman found that she had several thousand dollars coming to her from an old insurance policy and that she was able to use the money to spend on medical expenses for her son's illness.
Since the addresses aren't always current, finding the people can be very difficult. An unscientific analysis of 13 names on the list yielded the following information: two of them had listed phone numbers that matched the printed names and addresses. The rest of them couldn't be located because either they had moved or they had unlisted numbers.
The state doesn't try to call the 500,000 people on its database.
Mr. Kavaler said some companies do make a business of notifying people that they have assets and charge a fee to hand over the information. He said it's better if people just check the database and get the information for free.
Michael Antonelli, who lives with his family in Trumbull, had no idea his name was on the new list until a reporter called to tell him.
He called the state's hot line, at 800-833-7318, and a man informed him he had money coming to him.
"It turned out, if you're ready for this, to be a 1995 accounts payable check to my wife and me from AT&T in the amount of $60. He wouldn't give me any more information about that. He indicated he would send me the online claim form."
Mr. Antonelli said he suspected the money came in when he and his wife, Georgiana, switched their telephone service while they lived in Hong Kong and Tokyo for four years. He wondered if the company had tried to mail the check. Clearly, it gave up, since he's been back since 1998.
"I think I'll just spend it on golf balls," he said. "It will fund the year 2001 golf ball inventory."

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NAME-IT (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



131 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: A LA CARTE; 
Trying to Get Beyond Hefty Appetizers

BYLINE:  By RICHARD JAY SCHOLEM; E-mail: licarte@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AT the earthy new Peppo and Lino's Italian Grill in Merrick, the most unnecessary, even silliest question a waiter can ask a diner is, "Would you like an appetizer?" The obvious answer is no, because the instant patrons sit down at their tables 8 or 10 bowls of rustic, garlicky starters are plunked down before them. Crunchy broccoli; aromatic escarole; mussels posillippo; plump meatballs; stuffed shrimp; deep-fried rice balls; garlic-flecked roasted red peppers; stuffed artichokes; olives; three-bean salad; sweet-potato strips; an onion, pea, mushroom mix; soft oniony potato salad with walnuts; and marinated, dilled zucchini are among the 12 or 15 rotating possibilities included in this automatically served Roman antipasto. 
 While there are slight night-to-night changes in this Italian culinary mosaic, there is one constant: an inability to finish the formidable appetizer array and still have room for an entree (even without a starter). Surprisingly, the entire expansive spread comes at no cost for customers who order any pasta or entree (it costs $10.95 for those who eat it as their meal). 
 Main-course prices are not inflated to compensate. The lowest-priced pasta is $8.95 and is accompanied by a bigger-than-usual dinner salad, while entrees go for as little as $9.95 and include potatoes and mixed vegetables. Come to think of it, we did try one starter, the crostini bar ($5.95), an echo of the antipasto with enough bread, sun-dried tomatoes, cheese, roasted eggplant and so on to feed four.
The charm of Peppo and Lino's (196 Merrick Road, 516-377-4369), which is patterned after a 1930's latticini in Brooklyn started by forebears of the owner, Chris Affronti,, goes well beyond its bargain-priced abundance. It is a warm, homey throwback, much like the Queens and Brooklyn neighborhood favorites of bygone days. Its traditional patrons want no novello dishes and no surprises on the table or the bill. Familiarity and economy are what they seek and Peppo and Lino's comes through with its family pictures, iron gates, woody walls, market umbrella, antique motorcycle, Neapolitan music, nostalgic aromas and portions that would delight truck drivers or lumberjacks.
Although some of the food here is ordinary, even lackluster, most of the old-fashioned Italian mamma dishes are satisfying. Linguine alla vongole ($11.95) was loaded with tender minced clams; a casserole dish of baked lasagna ($9.95) contained alternating layers of mellow tomato meat sauce and parmesan and fresh mozzarella cheeses; and linguine pescatore ($12.95), a mountain of pasta enveloped in a husky, robust plum tomato sauce, yielded a trove of shrimp, clams, mussels and soft calamari rings. But penne Italian ($10.95), though tasty, was light on meatballs and sausage and heavy on pasta.
Two entrees worth mentioning are gamberi con salmone ($15.95) and grilled pork chops, part of the $12.95 salad, pizza bread, entree, beverage, dessert early-bird steal-of-a-meal. The narrow slab of medium-rare salmon, crowned with three shrimp, came with a dab of mashed potatoes and a melange of crisp green beans, zucchini and carrots, while the medium-size grilled pork chop, buried under a tangle of onions, peppers, portobello mushrooms and sun-dried tomatoes, napped in a hearty, brown Madeira sauce, was cooked slowly rather than being rushed to the table. The result was a tender, juicy piece of meat.
Relatively few restaurants at this modest price level make their own desserts, but Peppo and Lino's does do some, including a light ladyfinger-fringed wedge of tiramisu ($3.95), a decadent chocolate malted mousse-like cake with a rich, dark chocolate icing ($4.95) and Sicilian cookies, two mild-tasting graham cracker cookies ($4.95) beside a drift of fluffy vanilla cream, blueberries and strawberries, but without the promised raspberries. They weren't the only thing missing. The promised pizza bread, in the early bird, also was absent. (It's a large, dense, yeasty roll with a tomato-onion-mozzarella surface).
The waiter probably will have to be told who ordered which dish and at meal's end it might be necessary to flag down a server to get your bill, but Peppo and Lino's serves great gobs of conventional Italian food at rock-bottom prices. So sit back, order a glass ($3.75) or bottle ($16) of wine, relax and enjoy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CHEESE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



132 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2883 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property; 
The Rocketing New York Market Levels Off a Bit

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
IS New York's real estate boom of the last several years drawing to an end? Some real estate executives say they see telltale signs of weakness: a rapid increase in the amount of sublease space coming to market, landlords more willing to negotiate terms of leases, a leveling of rental rates and a softening of sale prices.
 But others say these are just blips in an otherwise healthy situation. Discipline in capital markets, they say, has prevented any tendency to overbuild. As a result, fundamentals, including occupancy rates and rental levels, remain near record levels and continue to support the valuation of properties. 
 "This was the best year for real estate -- ever," said Michael T. Cohen, the president of Williams Real Estate, a brokerage and management company, referring to 2000. "But we can't ignore that the Dow and Nasdaq have taken a beating. It's as if people are waiting for the next market cycle to arrive." 
If the outlook may be a bit clouded because of national economic developments, the commercial real estate industry in the metropolitan area goes into 2001 with a lot of momentum left over from 2000. The few new office buildings going up in Manhattan are spoken for before a shovel is put into the ground, and old industrial leviathans on the island's far west side, like the Starrett-Lehigh Building at 26th Street and the West Side Highway, have become fashionable locations for office tenants.
New office buildings on Jersey City's waterfront fill up quickly as well, drawing Manhattan-based tenants like Chase Manhattan Bank and Goldman Sachs. The waterfront activity is extending north to Hoboken, where SJP Properties is building a 550,000-square-foot structure for the publishers John Wiley & Sons and Matthew Bender and a companion 550,000-square-foot building next to it on speculation.
Retailers continue to flock to the New York area, despite a shortage of prime retail space. According to a survey conducted by the Real Estate Board of New York, ground-floor average annual asking rents range from $122 a square foot on Broadway between Houston and Broome Streets in SoHo to $718 a square foot on 57th Street between Park and Fifth Avenues.
And hotels in the city remain all but full, despite the addition of 11 new hotels with 3,387 rooms during 2000. According to a report by Ernst & Young, the accounting and consulting firm, the occupancy rate last year averaged 85 percent, up from 82.2 percent in 1999. The scramble for rooms by business visitors and tourists allowed hotel operators to increase their rates to an average of $214 a night in 2000, compared with $204.85 the previous year.
However, even the hotel boom seemed to slacken toward the end of the year. The occupancy rate in November was 86.5 percent, compared with 89.8 percent the year earlier, the second consecutive month with a decline from the corresponding month a year earlier, according to PKF Consulting, a hotel market specialist.
In the Manhattan office market, rents seem to be leveling off after rising sharply for most of the year. According to a report prepared by Insignia/ESG, the brokerage and services company, the average asking rent in Midtown increased to $62.40 a square foot from $48.28 a square foot from January to December 2000.
Asking rents in the two other major markets in the city -- Midtown South and Downtown -- followed a similar pattern, with the average for Midtown South increasing to $47.59 from $32.66 a square foot and Downtown rising to $44.70 from $33.63 a square foot.
But by the latter months of the year, the uninterrupted drumbeat of increases seemed to ease off, with the Midtown average of $61.81 a square foot in December, distinctly lower than the $62.85 a square foot recorded in September. But in Midtown South the December average of $48.61 was slightly above the November average of $47.59 a square foot.
"We are seeing a flattening in the growth of rents and a leveling out," said Franklin Speyer, an executive director of Cushman & Wakefield, another large brokerage and services company. "I expect to see rents stabilize at current levels through 2001."
Mr. Speyer said concern about the downward trend of stock prices and a shrinking of start-up technology companies known as dot-coms will exert a dampening effect on landlords' ability to increase rents. But some of those levels will be astonishingly high. "The asking rent in the top 65 buildings we track is $80 a square foot," said Steven A. Swerdlow, executive managing director of CB Richard Ellis, the brokerage and services company.
The problems of the dot-coms, many of which had aggressively leased space in anticipation of rapid growth, are turning up in figures for space that is being offered for sublease, according to Ruth Colp-Haber, a partner in Wharton Property Advisors, a brokerage that represents tenants.
According to figures compiled by her firm, a trickle of sublets coming to market in June -- four new spaces, totaling 37,207 square feet -- turned into a stream by October, when 62 new spaces totaling 1,071,683 square feet hit the market.
"Sublets are a harbinger of things to come," Ms. Colp-Haber said. "The first thing that a company in trouble does is lay off people and sublease the space they were in." She estimated that four million square feet of space was on the market at the end of the year.
Because sublet space is not included with space being offered directly by landlords, she said, published vacancy rates tend to understate the state of the market, particularly for individual properties. For instance, she said, the building at 600 Broadway is listed as fully rented, but in fact has 50 percent of its space available for sublease. Similarly, the building at 1440 Broadway and 40th Street officially has less than 4 percent of its space available. Adding in the sublet space pushes that figure to 12.7 percent.
"The venture capital firms have retrenched their funding of dot-coms, and they are being forced to cut back," Ms. Colp-Haber said. "Six months ago there was almost no sublet space available. Now there is a ton."
With rents flattening, brokers say they are seeing more flexibility on the part of landlords to negotiate leases. They say the landlords are holding firm on the rents themselves but are now more willing to sweeten other parts of the lease package.
"Today, you can negotiate with landlords and get concessions," said Mark S. Weiss, an executive managing director with Julien J. Studley, another tenants' broker. "That was not true nine months ago."
He said landlords are increasingly willing to contribute more to the cost of interior construction when a new tenant moves in. "The rent is the last to change, but there is more willingness to concede on work," he said. Interior building allowances had shrunk from $60 a square foot to $20 a square foot or lower as tenants scrambled to find space. Now they have started to rise as landlords have become more anxious to recruit tenants with strong credit.
"Now, instead of $20 a foot, we can get $35 a square foot," Mr. Weiss said. "In one case we got $40 a square foot. The market is still hot, but it's not red hot, white hot anymore."
Barry Gosin, vice chairman and chief executive of Newmark & Company real Estate, a brokerage and management company, said: "Landlords are a little more attentive, a little more cooperative. They understand the value of a good tenant. They want someone who is going to be there for 10 or 15 years rather than a technology tenant that may be gone tomorrow."
Mr. Gosin said that "the froth is off the market" but that there is still strong demand for space and little new construction. "There was zero building between 1990 and 1999, and that makes a difference," he said.
He added that he did not expect to see softness of the sort that occurred the last time the real estate market turned down, in the late 1980's. "New York is a different place today -- people want to be here," he said. "There would have to be a significant amount of layoffs to have an impact."
The leveling off of the growth in rents may have an impact on the sale price of properties, including trophies like Rockefeller Center, which recently was sold, and the World Trade Center which is still on the market.
"We are seeing the first sign of an erosion in prices," said Peter Hauspurg, the chairman of Eastern Consolidates Properties, a sales broker. "I can smell it in the last month." He said buyers were less willing to pay the prices being demanded by owners.
"During 1999, the expectations of both buyers and sellers were rising," he said. "Now the expectations of the buyers have turned down, while the sellers are still up. The result is a stillness in the investment sales market."
And what a market it is. Mr. Hauspurg cited figures given by Prudential at a conference on real estate investment trusts a few years ago showing that one-sixth of all commercial property value in the entire United States is in Manhattan. "The figures were that there is $2.7 trillion in commercial value in the nation, with $650 billion in the tri-state area and $450 billion in Manhattan," he said.
Nevertheless, prices might be softening a bit. Anthony E. Malkin, the president of W&M properties, an investment and management group, noted that the general expectation when Rockefeller Center was offered for sale last year was that the price would be somewhere between $2 billion and $2.5 billion. Later, he said, expectations dropped to a range of $1.8 billion to $2 billion.
And, indeed, when center was sold at year-end, the price was near the low end of the estimated range: $1.85 billion.
"There are two categories of players in this market: those who have to sell and those who don't," Mr. Malkin said. He said many of the opportunity funds that invested in property while prices were still low have to sell in a relatively short term to reach their promised rate of return on capital.
Some buildings have sold for unusually high prices on a square foot basis, noted a survey conducted for PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm. The building at 1301 Avenue of the Americas at 53rd Street sold to Equity Office Properties, a real estate investment trust, for $420 a square foot. The Seagram Building on Park Avenue and 52nd Street sold by Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association to RFR Holding for what the report called "a startling" $560 a square foot. Real estate executives noted that three-quarters of the leases in the Seagram Building would expire within the next five years, giving the new owner the opportunity to push rates up to current market levels.
But those may be the high points, the report said. "Although it is no surprise that investors are willing to pay top dollar for real estate in a market characterized by all-time low vacancy rates and all-time high rental rates," the report said, "some investors speculate that the recent surge of properties put up for sale signifies that this market has peaked."
But even if prices have peaked, there are not a lot of bargains to be snapped up, some executives warn. "There may not be 10 to 12 bidders for each property, but there are still six to eight," said Kevin F. Haggarty, an executive managing director of Insignia/ESG. He said that with rents close to $80 a foot and with a 2 percent vacancy in prime office buildings, prices are firm. "One of the roles I play is in managing buyers' expectations," he said.
Benjamin V. Lambert, the chairman of Eastdil Realty, a sales and financing company, said, "We may see market activity slow, but I don't see a big change in pricing." 
In Hoboken, the market is strong enough to warrant building the second phase of the Waterfront Corporate Center on speculation, according to Steven J. Pozycki, the president of SJP Properties. "We know the economy is slowing somewhat, but we believe this location and the amenities will attract a tenant needing 150,000 square feet of space or more," he said. He said the two buildings would be delivered sequentially, with the first, to be occupied by the Wiley and Bender publishing houses, coming to market in the first quarter of 2002 and the second six months later.
Following are highlights of important segments of the real-estate scene in New York:

Capital Markets
Lenders' Discipline Restrains Builders
Ultimately, many executives say, the state of the capital markets will determine the prices paid for properties, because the availability and the price of capital are factors in almost all transactions.
Discipline in capital markets is what distinguishes the current period from earlier times, when a flood of money for construction led to overbuilding and a sharp decline in rental rates, said John Lyons, the president of Granite Partners, a financing company.
"Lenders will not lend on a project without 50 percent preleasing," he said. "As such, we are not seeing the overbuilding that we saw in previous cycles."
Because of this, he said, even if there is a downturn, it is likely to be smaller in depth and shorter in time.
Even though most real estate loans are made on a one-on-one basis between a lender and a developer, securities markets, such as the one for commercial mortgage-backed securities, influence the terms and conditions of the transactions, Mr. Lyons said. This is because if an institution wants to sell a loan in public markets, it must meet the underwriting standards set by those markets. 
Even if capital markets are influencing the terms of deals, they are providing plenty of money to fuel transactions, said Howard L. Michaels, chairman of the Carlton Group, which arranges financing and property sales. "We have been doing $1 billion in financing every 60 to 90 days," he said. "We have not seen any signs of a slowdown, despite talk of a slowdown."
The power of the capital markets ensures that there has been little "dumb money" available for development, said Dale Anne Reiss, practice manager for E&Y Kenneth Leventhal, an accounting and consulting firm. "Developers are like junkies and money is their drug," she said, "but the markets were incredibly disciplined."

Retail Space
Rents Ease a Bit On the Ground Floor
The possibility that e-commerce would replace shopping in stores faded during 2000, according to brokers specializing in retail real estate. "Bricks and mortar are stronger then ever," said Benjamin Fox, an executive vice president of Newmark New Spectrum Realty Services. "New Yorkers like to get out and shop."
He said the rise in rental rates for office space had actually helped retailers because landlords do not have to squeeze the last dollar out of their ground-floor space to make the economics of their properties work.
"We are starting to see some moderation in rents because owners-developers are doing so well upstairs that they don't need top dollar downstairs," he said. "This allows them to select the right tenants, which is important, because the ground-floor tenant is a big part of the identity of a building."
Because estimates of retail rents had varied widely in the past, the Real Estate Board of New York for the first time conducted a survey, released during the fall, using 12 brokerage companies. Not surprisingly the rents varied widely with location, with Fifth Avenue between 50th and 59th the most expensive in the city.
The stores along that stretch tend to be large, from 1,049 square feet to 11,541 square feet, with rents ranging from a low of $550 a square foot to an eye-popping $1,100 a square foot. The median was $615 a square foot.
In the rapidly developing SoHo retail region, in stores along Broadway from Houston to Broome Streets, rentals are distinctly more modest, ranging from $75 to $225 a square foot.
"A lot of French and English stores are moving here and many are going to SoHo," said Faith H. Consolo, vice chairman of Garrick-Aug, another retail specialist. One that did not was Fauchon, a French fine-foods store that opened in 5,000 square feet of space in the Hotel Drake at 56th Street and Park Avenue, a neighborhood where retail rents range from $250 to $300 a square foot.

Hotels
A Tourist Boom That Has Not Quit
Occupancy rates remained high as an influx of visitors easily filled the few thousand new rooms to open during the year. This has prompted a flurry of activity by developers seeking to get in on the city's seemingly unending tourist boom.
"Lots of people are coming to us with small, niche proposals," said Sean Hennessey, director of PricewaterhouseCooper's New York hospitality practice. He said some of them were for the conversion of office buildings to hotels and some for new construction. Given the scarcity of building sites in Manhattan, most of the proposals are for hotels with 100 to 200 rooms.
"Hotels of this size are not usually economical, but with rates this high they can work," Mr. Hennessey said. He said hotels unaffiliated with any of the national chains have a good chance of succeeding in New York because of the desire of some travelers to express their lifestyle by choosing a small, quirky hotel, like the Library, at 41st Street and Madison Avenue, where the floors are marked according to the Dewey Decimal System and rates are about $350 a night. 
"These hotels," he said, "differentiate themselves not by the usual things such as room size, but by how hip you are."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ruth Colp-Haber, a partner in Wharton Property Advisors, said vacancy rates do not necessarily reflect space that is being offered by dot-com companies and others for sublease. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times); Fauchon, a French fine-foods store, in Hotel Drake at 56th and Park. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 4); On the Hoboken waterfront, SJP Properties is doing foundation work for two 550,000-square-foot office buildings as apartments rise nearby. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Graph: "Parallel Tracks"Vacancy rates and average asking rents in commercial buildings followed the same patterns last year in both downtown and midtown. Vacancy rates rose a bit at the end of the year, but asking rents, shown in dollars per square foot annually, continued to rise in most areas. Downtown is from Canal Street to the Harbor, river to river. Midtown figures combine Midtown and Midtown south, generally from 72nd Street to Canal Street on the west and to 12th Street on the east. Graph tracks Vacancy rent and Average asking rent for Midtown and Downtown since Jan.(Source: Insignia/ESG)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RETAILERS (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CITIES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (60%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (53%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JWB (NYSE) (53%); JWA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%)

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; JERSEY CITY (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



133 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: JERSEY; 
No-Count Guests at a Census Bash

BYLINE:  By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
THE Attack of the Number Crunchers has begun, but don't worry. Even those of you who are intimidated by statistics -- which is to say, virtually all of you -- can survive it, using the simple system delineated here.
 The crunch in question is the data from the 2000 census. The first batch, the total head count for New Jersey and the rest of the country, was released last week with great fanfare. (For the record, the numbers showed that New Jersey grew 8.9 percent in the last decade, which in layman's terms means that if you weighed 150 pounds in 1990, you weigh 163 pounds today.) More data will be parceled out as the year progresses -- about what color we are, how much money we make, what we do for a living -- until eventually we know almost as much about ourselves as we know about Madonna's sex life. 
 The problem is, this information will be delivered primarily by bureaucrats and professors and will thus be full of technical terms like "percentage" and "congressional reapportionment," making it as incomprehensible as it is boring. That is why I spent almost an entire coffee break developing a simple method for dealing with the avalanche of figures headed our way. I call it the Party of 10 System(R). If you prefer, you can call it the Idea I Stole From One of Those Chain E-Mail Letters.
It works like this: Imagine that there are 10 guests at a party and that the guests perfectly represent the demographics of New Jersey. So, starting with the obvious, five would be male, five female. Every time new census statistics come your way, your mental picture of the guests can get more detailed. For instance, the next data might tell us that six of the guests are New Jersey natives (that's what the 1990 census showed) or that all but two are white (again, 1990).
The chain e-mail that inspired the Party of 10 System(R) used a similar gimmick to describe the world's population, except with a base of 100 and a heavy dose of moralizing. ("Seventy of the people would be nonwhite, 30 would be white; 89 would be heterosexual, 11 would be homosexual; 6 would possess 59 percent of the entire world's wealth, and all 6 would be from the United States.") The intent seemed to be to make recipients pause and think, and it certainly worked. Mostly what I paused and thought was that I should stop reading irksome chain e-mails.
Anyway, one beauty of the Party of 10 System(R) is that it lets you make quick, clear comparisons across decades or even centuries, without having to account for inflation, leap years, etc. This can dramatically underscore important social trends.
For instance, history books suggest that had our imaginary party convened back in 1820, only one of the 10 guests would have been able to read. Had our party convened three weeks ago, however, virtually all of the guests would have been able to read, yet not a single one would have heard of Donald DiWhatshisname, the guy who's going to be our governor for the next year.
Similarly, in 1990 the party of 10 would have included 3 people under the age of 21. A century ago, in contrast, 4 of the guests would have been children but, remarkably, none would have been named Britney, Britany or Brittanie.
I've taken the liberty of developing some Party of 10(R) projections using 1990 figures, interviews with experts and impressions I've developed by eavesdropping on people at the supermarket. The full census figures, when released, will almost surely show these things about the 10 party guests:
* Six will be in the work force. Four of those will drive to work alone; none will feel guilty about it.
* Three will have at least some college education; none will understand how this whole electricity-deregulation thing works.
* Eight will be "somewhat concerned" or "very concerned" about global warming. Nine will think it's been "too danged cold" this winter.
* One will have been born in a foreign country. Seven will live in the same houses they lived in five years ago. Nine will experience occasional wanderlust but will not act on it because going to Newark Airport scares them.
* One will have been the victim of a crime in the last year. Eight will have turned up at that casting call last summer for bit parts in "The Sopranos."
* Six will attend some form of religious service at least occasionally, but all 10 will agree with this, from Horace: "We are just statistics, born to consume resources."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); REDISTRICTING (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



134 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: ROAD AND RAIL; 
On a Slow Train To Fast Times

BYLINE:  By BILL KENT

 BODY:
For William Shelby, who has been punching tickets on New Jersey Transit's Atlantic City rail service between Philadelphia and Atlantic City since it began in 1989, the daily mix of poker-playing gamblers, casino employees, commuters, conventioneers and college students, "is a community that's always celebrating something -- weddings, birthdays, raises on the job. We all know each other and, believe me, these people would be devastated if the service was to stop." 
 The line remains New Jersey Transit's most expensive and least used rail service. But there is no plan to stop service. 
 Though New Jersey Transit's executive director, Jeffrey Warsh, said he had no intentions of raising ticket prices, reducing operations or otherwise "walking away" from the operation, he admits that the average daily ridership of 1,300 riders is "much lower than we'd like to see." 
Except for morning and evening rushes, when trains are mostly full, runs are typically half occupied or less. On a given day, half of the train's passengers are casino employees, a third are gamblers or regional visitors, with the rest being New Jersey residents who work or attend college in Philadelphia. Ridership is heaviest on summer weekends, during morning and evening rush hours, and also during major Atlantic City conventions and trade shows. 
Originally intended to relieve automobile congestion in Atlantic City, act as an economic generator within Camden and Atlantic Counties and provide access to Amtrak trains at 30th Street Station in Philadelphia, the Atlantic City railroad service was set up in 1989 with $108 million in federal and state funds. For the next five years, Amtrak provided so-called Gamblers Express trains nonstop between Philadelphia and Atlantic City, with New Jersey Transit operating a slower commuter service. 
Amtrak discontinued its Atlantic City service in 1994, citing low ridership. New Jersey Transit increased its schedule from 17 to 28 daily trips. Those trips come with a cost. For every passenger who paid the $6 one-way full fare, New Jersey Transit spent an additional $10 -- more than three times what the agency spends on northern and central New Jersey commuter rail lines. 
Ridership has remained low, Mr. Warsh said, because of a number of factors. He cited residential development near the tracks in Camden County, which requires the train to slow down to reduce noise. Add time for stops at Cherry Hill, the Lindenwold Hi-Speed Line station, Atco, Hammonton, Egg Harbor City and Absecon, and the one-way trip takes about 95 minutes, 10 minutes longer than New Jersey Transit buses on roads parallel to the tracks. 
Then, in Atlantic City, the railroad terminus is in the city's Convention Center, nearly a half-mile west of the nearest casino. Train passengers can either pay to take taxis or use their tickets to get a free ride on an Atlantic City jitney, but city traffic regulations forbid jitneys from picking up or discharging passengers directly in front of casino hotel entrances, so in addition to changing vehicles, they have to walk a few extra yards to the casino door. 
Even when summer shore traffic can back traffic up for several miles along the Atlantic City Expressway, "most of our customers just don't find the train an acceptable form of transportation," said Tim Wilmott, an executive who oversees the Harrah's and Showboat casinos in Atlantic City and is also president of the New Jersey Casino Association, the gambling industry's lobbying group. 
"They prefer to drive in their car and park in a garage and not be dictated by a schedule," he said. "Back in the 90's we tried marketing to the train, offering some of the incentives similar to bus programs, and we got nowhere." 
Less than 10 percent of the casino industry's 45,000 employees take any kind of public transportation, according to New Jersey Transit. Gene Clark, Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Park Place Entertainment, said most casino employees drove to work and parked in lots on the Atlantic City Expressway, catching shuttle buses that take them directly to their jobs. 
As many as 300 Park Place employees have applied for vouchers that pay a portion of their public transportation costs, Mr. Clark said, but use them mainly on buses.
"Few of them use the train on a regular basis," Mr. Clark said. "The trains run every hour and a half, but the buses run more frequently. Miss the bus and you're only out a few minutes. But if you miss the train, you're down a lot of time." 
The train is also inconvenient for employees who don't live near stations. "We have a lot of employees who live some distances north and south of Atlantic City, and the train runs east to west," Mr. Clark said.
Passengers who park their cars at New Jersey Transit station stops have complained of break-ins and vandalism to their vehicles. Mr. Warsh said that New Jersey Transit had increased police patrols of the station parking areas. 
He pointed to a 1995 study that showed that train passengers who worked or vacationed in Atlantic City and neighboring shore resort towns generated $6.3 million each year in state tax revenues. That study was done at a time when as many as five new casino hotels, adding as many as 15,000 new jobs, were planned to be open for business by the year 2001. Had they opened as scheduled, passengers on Atlantic City trains would have doubled, he said. 
So far, only one of those projects has broken ground, the $1 billion, 2,010-room Boyd Borgata, due to open in 2003.
Mr. Warsh said three additional projects will increase ridership within the next decade: a $30 million residential and office development adjacent to the train's Cherry Hill Station, a transportation center for Galloway Township and a southern spur of the train line from Winslow Junction to shore towns in Cape May County. 
Until then, Mr. Shelby, the conductor, enjoys reminiscing with some of his older passengers, who "remember when taking the Blue Comet train out of Grand Central Station to Atlantic City was the height of luxury, first class all the way. We're no Blue Comet, but for the families who ride with us ride in the summer for a day at the beach, we do just fine."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The 95-minute run from Philadelphia ends at the terminal in Atlantic City, shown here, a half-mile from the nearest casino. (Gregg Kohl for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); POKER (90%); GAMING (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); TRAINS (89%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); TICKET SALES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); TRADE SHOWS (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



135 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: DEVELOPMENT; 
How Their Garden Grows

BYLINE:  By JILL P. CAPUZZO

DATELINE: PLAINSBORO 

 BODY:
The landscape between bustling Route 1 and the Delaware and Raritan Canal is deceptively placid, the horizontal interrupted only by evenly spaced, soldier-straight rows of trees meant to block the wind, or the occasional lone tree or shrub. This was once the renowned Princeton Nurseries. What is growing there now is dissension.
 With a portion of this land set to be bulldozed to make way for 220 luxury apartments, this is a classic battle between developer and community. But in this case the developer is Princeton Forrestal Center, the for-profit arm of Princeton University. Princeton Forrestal has been credited with both helping to create the state's leading high-tech corridor and with systematically consuming the bucolic setting, albeit with tasteful structures. 
 Many make no distinction between the university and its corporate entity.
"Wouldn't it be nice if Princeton University, one of the wealthiest universities in America, donated the property to be a park to be used by thousands of people in the area?" asked Susan Smiley, who lives in Princeton Landing, one of Princeton Forrestal's first developments, and walks along the canal towpath each day.
A public park, or an arboretum, as some have suggested, appeared unlikely for the site after Plainsboro Planning Board last month approved Princeton Forrestal's proposal for the Villas of Tuscany, 18 buildings of clustered apartments at Mapleton and Seminary Roads. Included in the plan was one major concession to the public park concept -- that the 30 acres of land abutting the Delaware and Raritan Canal would be forever preserved as open land. 
Some opponents said that the protected land lies in a flood plain and that the developers had no choice but to preserve it.
David Knights, marketing director of Princeton Forrestal Center, said that some of the land along the canal was suitable for building but that Princeton University's president, Harold Shapiro, made a commitment in 1988 to preserve the entire 101 acres of land running along the canal as long as development rights were transferred to the east side of Mapleton Road. That commitment followed a furor over Forrestal's 1987 attempt to develop the Princeton Nurseries land with 1,050 homes, some which would be built close to the canal. Public outcry plus a downturn in the economy led Princeton Forrestal to table all development plans at the nursery for the next decade. 
Princeton University bought Princeton Nurseries in 1986, when the family that owned it sold the land to pay off estate taxes following the death of one of the brothers that operated it. The nursery moved its base to Allentown. The 488-acre site was the last major tract of land acquired by Princeton Forrestal, which since the 1950's has purchased a total of 2,200 acres, all in Plainsboro and South Brunswick. From the mid-70's through the 90's, Forrestal land has been developed for retail, office, research and residential space, but the nursery property has remained largely untouched. 
With the apartment project ready to go, the next phase of development at the nursery site calls for a two-million-square-foot office building, also in the Plainsboro part of the tract. Princeton Forrestal has zoning approval from Plainsboro for the building but is "not working on a plan" at the moment, according to Mr. Knights. This plan has the community fuming over its potential to bring thousands of cars daily to the already bottlenecked roads in the area.
"The amount of nonresidential building they want to put on this property is insensitive to the characteristics of this neighborhood," said Karen Linder, a resident of Kingston. "There's no plan for the traffic impact on Kingston. They need to stop temporarily and do some regional planning." 
While acknowledging that Kingston has a traffic problem, Mr. Knights said Princeton had been planning for three years for the anticipated development, investing heavily with such additions as the $20 million Route 1 overpass at College Road, $1 million in new sewer lines, and a reconfiguration of Mapleton Road to redirect traffic. 
Opponents point fingers at Plainsboro officials as much as at Princeton Forrestal for allowing development to proceed with what they view as little regard for the environment or the community.
"Princeton University owns a huge amount of land in Plainsboro," said Charlie Dieterich, co-chairman of Friends of Princeton Nursery Lands, a group formed to save the nursery. "Plainsboro needed business ratables, Princeton U. needed income for endowments, and the two just made a very favorable deal." Mr. Dieterich's group has been more successful with the 200 acres of Princeton Nurseries property in South Brunswick, where township officials are now negotiating to buy portions of the land for preservation.
Plainsboro's mayor for 21 of the last 27 years, Peter Cantu, said his township had a record of preserving open space, including the 30 acres of undeveloped land that are tied to this project.
"This application has its roots in zoning approvals that go back to the mid-80's," Mr. Cantu said. "The presentation that was put before us provided the planning board with no basis to reject the application." 
Before the apartments can be built, the developers first must remove and contain soil contaminated with the pesticide dieldrin. The project also needs final approval by the Delaware and Raritan Canal Commission, since the road work falls within 1,000 feet of the canal. Princeton Forrestal says it expects neither step to block the project.
Much of the negative response stems from an emotional bond that residents have with Princeton Nurseries, once the nation's largest wholesale nursery. Started in 1913, the operation introduced more shrub and tree species to the United States than any other nursery in the country. Species like the October Glory red maple, the Snow Queen hydrangea and the Princeton Century gingko, while abundant throughout the country, are now sparse on the grounds where they were first cultivated. 
The most notable trees standing today are the windrows of 30-foot-tall arborvitae, which William Flemer planted after returning from duty in Europe during World War I. The windrows will not be affected by the proposed apartment complex but the same cannot be said of the office building. Mr. Knights said Princeton Forrestal would be sensitive to residents' attachments to the windrows, which he called "gorgeous," but said that the nursery "is not an historic site in any way, shape or form. There are magnificent vistas, and they are all being preserved." 
William Flemer III, who lives in a 1742 house on the canal side of the property that will be protected, said it made him "very sad" to think about the pending buildings across the street but that he recognized Princeton's right to develop the land it purchased. 
"I wish we were still running it, and I wish we didn't have to sell it," said Mr. Flemer. "We had a number of potential buyers at the time and it seemed the university was the best, that they would have more regard for the environment and not try to cram every building on every acre. They bought it as an investment and they have the right to capitalize on that investment. I can't condemn them for that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert von Zumbusch lives by the former Princeton Nurseries in Plainsboro, where the Princeton-Forrestal Center plans to build apartments and offices. (Wanderlan P. Silva for The New York Times) Map of New Jersey highlighting Plainsboro.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); APPROVALS (65%); ESTATE TAX (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



136 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2904 words

HEADLINE: Growing Pains For State Plan 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SULLIVAN

DATELINE: CAPE MAY COURT HOUSE 

 BODY:
SQUEEZING a sheaf of paper into a crumpled cone in his fist, William Juliano pleaded with a group of state planners in the Cape May County administrative building.
 "It is a nightmare," he said. 
 Mr. Juliano, the new owner of an aging office building at the intersection of Routes 9 and 47 in Middle Township, was anxious to learn whether his project was about to go up in smoke. He had bought the property in October, intending to build stores there. The town had encouraged the plan as part of an effort to revitalize the street corner, once the site of the Cape May County social services department. 
That was before he learned that a state official in Trenton had carefully drawn a new line on a map laying out the state's master plan, establishing boundaries between development and preservation in sensitive areas of New Jersey. Confused about whether his project would thrive or die under the change, Mr. Juliano went looking for guidance at a public hearing on the state development plan, held last month in Cape May. Where the map was shaded would make or break his building's future: whether it was in the bright white star of the town development center or in the pale green of an environmentally sensitive zone. 
Contending that he would never have agreed to the project if he knew the rules could change so suddenly, he said, "I would have walked away," 
As a longtime developer, Mr. Juliano has had his share of battles with state regulators. But this was something new for Mr. Juliano and for state officials as well: a project caught in the jaws of a suddenly powerful state plan.
The plan itself isn't new. Legislation to create the state plan was proposed in 1985, and the original version was adopted in 1992. On one level, the plan has never had any legal teeth. By itself, it cannot block any development. But it can influence the state regulators who grant development permits, particularly in environmentally sensitive areas. 
What's different is that under directionfrom Governor Whitman, state agencies have begun to use the plan to guide their regulations and spending. Whether granting sewer permits along the shore or widening a two-lane intersection to three lanes, state regulators are now expected to check whether their decisions conform to the plan. 
"It is a very significant alteration in the way New Jersey governs itself, the way the economy operates and the way it shelters its citizens," said Patrick O'Keefe, chief executive of the New Jersey Builders Association. 
The builders' association, a powerful lobbying group, supported the original 1985 legislation. But it is now bitterly opposed to the plan and its proposed expansion, including its extension to coastal development regulations last year.
The issue, Mr. O'Keefe said, is that the plan is supposed to be a guideline for local government, not a state mandate. Many local officials oppose the plan for the same reason. 
"One of the great misunderstandings about the plan is the contention by the planners that it is voluntary, even as they selectively mandate adherence to it through various state agencies," Mr. O'Keefe said.
Environmental groups and planning advocates, on the other hand, say that it's about time the state put teeth into the plan.
"For people in New Jersey who are fed up with overdevelopment and sprawl, the state plan has been a symbol of hope," said Jeff Tittel, state director of the New Jersey Sierra Club. "But after 10 years, it has not delivered anything."
EVEN as people debate whether the plan -- officially the New Jersey State Development and Redevelopment Plan -- is too strict or not strict enough, the state is moving toward introducing its second incarnation, expected to be approved by the planning commission sometime next month.
"The teeth in the act has always been that state government will spend money and establish regulations in support of the plan," said Barbara Lawrence, executive director of the statewide planning group New Jersey Future. "It is not just supposed to be a book on a shelf."'
One place where the plan has clearly not remained on the shelf is Red Bank. The central town of the wealthy peninsula section of Monmouth County, Red Bank had slumped into hard times in the 1980's. Its central street, once a classic New Jersey downtown of shops and diners, was lined with vacant buildings, liquor stores and a few struggling businesses. The population had plummeted to 9,000 from a high of 15,000; each year, more lights went dark along Broad Street.
But in the early 1990's, with a change in town government, Red Bank's leaders decided to take an aggressive role in developing the downtown.
"We took some old buildings, a school building, and we got federal and state money and we rehabbed them as housing," said Mayor Edward McKenna. "We took some liquor licenses and retired them. We turned a problem corner with a fast-food restaurant into a mini-park."
The town, once called Dead Bank, is now a shining example for state planners, the town they cite to convince people of the success of controlled development. Since the town began to change its zoning, its taxing and its planning seven years ago, business has returned to Broad Street.
In the week before Christmas, the streets were crowded, the brick and stone buildings open and polished. Along two blocks, the Bon Ton clothing store rubs shoulders with Garney Men's Shop and Solomon Smith Barney. The Buy Lo Liquor store has been replaced with the Grill and Grape cafe. For Mayor McKenna, a drive through town is a chance to relive municipal planning triumphs.
"We tried to follow the state plan," he said. "It encourages development in an area like ours by encouraging rehabilitation and not sprawling out into neighboring farms."
At the core of the state plan, since it was adopted in 1992, is the belief that New Jersey needs to strengthen its cities and its town centers -- a strategy called "Fix it First" by highway engineers or "Smart Growth" by urban planners. 
"The genesis was the great office building boom of the 1980's, and the suburban growth corridors along major highways," said James Hughes, dean of the Bloustein School of Government at Rutgers. "Eighty percent of the office space ever built in the state went up between 1980 and 1990, and most of it went up along the corridors: Route 1, Route 287, Route 80."
As people moved closer to their new jobs, they looked for convenient places to live and to shop. Residential development followed.
"That caused tremendous spillover into the adjacent formerly rural areas," Dr. Hughes said. "It generated ru-burbia, the hybrid form of suburbia and rural that we see spreading out to the western part of the state."
With the new development came what has since become a familiar litany of complaints -- logjam traffic, environmental problems, shrinking forests and fields. By the late 1990's, New Jersey had become the first state to face the possibility of total development. Within 30 years, every available plot of land could be occupied.
In her 1998 inaugural address, Governor Whitman called on the state to increase planning and preserve open space. In later speeches, she referred to the state plan as "the backbone of decision making" for state and local government, ordering major regulatory agencies to follow the plan when issuing permits or awarding grants.
In the meantime, state planners spent the span between 1992 and 1999 meeting with county and municipal leaders and trying to reach a consensus on a revised version of the plan. The product of those discussions, now subject to public hearings, is expected to be formally adopted by the planning commission next month.
For the most part, the updated plan is the same as the 1992 version, with the major theme of concentration of development and the rebuilding of cities and older suburbs. State planners expect New Jersey to hold another 900,000 people by the year 2020, and they hope the development needed to house and employ the new residents will lie in cities and older suburbs.
"It is not about blocking growth in rural areas, it is about concentrating it," said Herb Simmens, executive director of the New Jersey Planning Commission.
Mr. Simmens said the choice was stark: New Jersey can continue to spread until it runs out of land, throwing up houses on acre-sized lots and office parks on farmland. Or municipalities can try to organize development into town centers.
"One scenario is to grow by 10,000 people on 5,000 acres and another is to grow by 10,000 people on 1,000 acres," he said.
In theory, it is a simple choice -- less sprawl means less traffic, less environmental damage. But opponents of the plan say translating the theory into practice will be much harder than planners predict.
Mr. O'Keefe of the builders association said it was simpler and far more profitable to build on vacant farmland than on an old industrial site in an inner city. "Where the private sector believes there is a market, development will occur," Mr. O'Keefe said. 
If the state wants to encourage building in the inner cities and old suburbs, he said, it will have to come up with money to address a range of expensive problems: bad schools, high property taxes, crime, pollution and sagging infrastructure. 
"All those issues are the public sector's responsibility, and as long as the state government turns its back on the urban areas, the ability of the private sector will be limited," Mr. O'Keefe said.
The fate of New Jersey's cities in the 1990's was mixed. While Hoboken and Jersey City have boomed along with Manhattan's red-hot real estate market, other cities like Trenton and Camden have not done as well. Newark, the state's largest city, has seen more development than any time since before the riots of the late 1960's. Home ownership in Newark, while still below the state average of 64.5 percent, has risen to 26 percent last year from 14 percent in 1986, and office space has filled as new businesses locate downtown.
Newark's Mayor, Sharpe James, attributes the growth to a strategy of attracting the commercial development with a sales pitch for the city's existing transportation system and building infrastructure. 
The New Jersey Performing Arts Center is a prime example. By building the center in downtown Newark, the state drew spending customers into the city. Mayor James said the proposal to build a sports arena in Newark would serve the same purpose.
"We need to create the economic engine to turn the growth that was earmarked for the suburbs to the inner cities," he said.
Mayor Jim McGreevey of Woodbridge, who is expected to be a Democratic gubernatorial candidate this year, advocates strong coordination between environmental and economic planners.
But for urban areas, he said, planning alone is not enough. The state needs to recognize that taxpayers will have to subsidize some city improvements -- through payments for industrial cleanup or job training -- if urban areas are to accept a large portion of growth.
"If planning is to work, it must be in concert with basic economic principles," he said. "In New Jersey, it will always be less expensive to pave over farmland than to remediate a former industrial site in an urban center."
That conclusion is clearly demonstrated in Ocean County, one of the battlegrounds of suburban development. Once an area of open fields and summertime shore towns, Ocean County is quickly filling with offices and subdivisions. At quitting time, cars spill out of the offices and stores clustered along Route 9, creating traffic jams in spots like the intersection of Route 37 and Hooper Avenue in Jackson Township.
Under the state plan, areas like Ocean County are generally planned for slow growth, with development mainly confined to town centers. In the long run this worries people like Leonard Connors, the mayor of Surf City and a Republican state senator.
Senator Connors said the plan ignored the fact that Ocean County had already developed far beyond its means, with overtaxed roads, schools and public facilities. He said decades of sewer extensions and lax development regulations "gave us the gun to blow our brains out." But it is impossible to turn back the clock, he said, and the state needs to continue to invest in the area. 
"I am all for preserving land, I am all for stopping sprawl, I am all for the environment," he said. "But I do not think the cost should be borne by one group of individuals. Stopping sprawl is a shared responsibility, shared by all people."
Eileen McGinnis, the governor's policy director, said the state must establish guidelines for future growth, and that drawing the lines would never be easy.
"You need to have a rational way, based in law, that allows the state to say this development should occur or should not occur," she said.
Unlike the cities, where the fights are over money, in suburban and rural areas the battle over the state plan primarily involves environmental regulation. Last year, developers and environmentalists fought over state coastal regulations, which determine what can be developed in areas like Ocean County; although the governor modified the regulations somewhat, she kept the state plan guidelines in the coastal rules.
The next battle is expected to involve water and sewer regulations, which govern where new building can occur throughout New Jersey. For much of last year, legislators argued over the rules as developers and planning advocates lined up support on each side. The Legislature opposed the governor's proposal, which relied heavily on the state plan. The Assembly voted to overturn the proposed regulation, and a Senate committee recommended similar action.
Senator Donald T. DiFrancesco, the Senate president, said he expected to pass compromise legislation within the next few months. Mr. DiFrancesco, who is in line to replace Governor Whitman when she takes over as director of the federal Environmental Protection Agency, said the state plan was a "good blueprint" for development.
But he said the plan was viewed by too many municipalities as a threat to local government, which has a long tradition of independence in New Jersey. He said the state should devote more effort to forging a consensus with local governments, rather than forcing them to adhere to the plan.
"There have always been a lot of misconceptions about the state plan, and fears about it," he said. "They have to be convinced and shown how it is going to positively impact their communities.'
Joseph Mariziti, chairman of the state planning commission, echoed the importance of consensus, but he said time was running out as parcels of land continue to be swallowed up.
"There is a sense of urgency," he said. "This generation of New Jerseyans has the last opportunity to effectively plan the growth of this state."
THE alternative is to be swept along on the tide of development. That is largely what happened in West Windsor, a town at the center of the 1990 development boom. Once a bedroom community on New Jersey Transit's northeast corridor, West Windsor saw building after building spring up along Route 1, followed by large housing developments.
Mayor Carole Carson said the town had adapted, buying much of the remaining farmland and leasing it to tenant farmers. Still, the growth has strained resources, crowding the high school and stretching police and fire protection.
The town is about to lose its last battle, she said, with the Toll Brothers company, one of the largest builders in the state. After six years of clashes in court, she said, it was almost inevitable that the company will "begin moving dirt" sometime this spring for a housing project just off Route 1. Right now the area is marshy woodland, a wide expanse of small trees and tangled brush. Toll plans to cover much of the area with new single-family houses, plus apartments and town houses.
The company says that although the town does not want the project, it is exactly in line with the state plan's goal of concentrating development near public transportation.
"We are immediately adjacent to the rail system and the Princeton Junction train station," said Wayne Patterson, a senior vice president for Toll. "It is logical for growth and it is planned in the state master plan."
Throughout New Jersey, Mr. Patterson said, "There is a tremendous need for housing. You can't just shut everything down."
That is what Mr. Juliano believed. Although he had battled state regulators over other projects, he did not anticipate any problems with the office building in Middle Township. In fact, as he told planners at the meeting in Cape May Courthouse, he had bought the building with the cooperation of town officials.
"I had the consensus of the town and the Cape May freeholders," he said after the hearing. "They said they wanted the area developed because it was an eyesore."
Only after buying the building in October did he learn that the state planners had adjusted their maps. Any changes could be critical, affecting a variety of permits needed for construction of a large commercial development.
"I couldn't sleep at night," Mr. Juliano said. "I don't want a conflict between the township and the planning commission with me in the middle."
After the meeting, environmental regulators agreed to review detailed maps to determine the status of Mr. Juliano's project. It turned out that he need not have worried after all. The line between development and preservation was on the other side of the street.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The aim of the state plan is to encourage development in city centers and discourage it on open land, like the stretch, above, in Mount Laurel. At a recent hearing in Cape May Court House, speakers debated the merits of the existing plan and a proposed revision. (Photographs by David Hunsinger for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Construction along Route 1 in West Windsor. Below, in Red Bank, Mayor Ed McKenna, right, talks with Ed Kaminski; a downtown revival there is cited as a textbook example of intelligent use of the state plan. (Jill C. Becker and, below, Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)(pg. 8) Chart: "Newer Jersey"New Jersey Future, a statewide planning group, says that an analysis of New Jersey building permits in the 1990's showed a clear preference for development on open land rather than reuse of develped land. Map of New Jersey highlights developed land and growth rates for the state.(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (67%); LEGISLATION (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



137 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
I Lost It at the Movies

BYLINE:  By PETER MARKS

 BODY:
IT was such a little request.
 "Please, sir, I want a small coffee" (or something equally obsequious), I said to the man behind the refreshment counter at the 25-screen multiplex on 42nd Street. 
 It wasn't much to ask, considering how desperately I needed fortification. The task at hand had been escorting my 8-year-old, Lizzie, to "102 Dalmatians," a grim, clattering Disney sequel whose voluminous defects made no impression on my daughter, a canine lover so dyed in the fur she would sooner eat Brussels sprouts than accept that a dog story could go wrong on celluloid. 
The counter man produced a bottle of water to bring back to Lizzie (cost: $3!), but my small cup of java did not materialize. After some rummaging, the clerk explained that he was out of small cups. Behind him loomed a tower of "large" cups; actually, this being the concession stand of a modern movie theater, they were more in the bucket family. I checked out the price of a large. It was roughly the same as a share of a tech stock I was considering. So I suggested a compromise: pour my small coffee into one of the big cups. 
I might as well have been offering him a deal on land in Florida. The clerk's brow furrowed, his jaw clenched. He motioned to his boss, who strode over with confidence and authority. Ah, a man in charge. I sensed a ruling coming in my favor.
"Nope," the manager said, with out-of-the-question finality.
"Why?" I asked incredulously, singing the word in that characteristic New York vocal style: the high-pitched whine.
His reply came in the relaxed rhythms of a man who knew how to say everything and nothing all at once: "It's an inventory issue." 
An inventory issue. I slunk away with the overpriced bottle of water, struck by the compounding absurdity of the manager's explanation and my outsize pique at having to return, undercaffeinated, to the spectacle of Glenn Close being baked into a cake by a pack of puppies.
I've watched countless times as ticket holders in the newfangled vertical movie houses of New York treated their stubs as all-day passes, sneaking into second features with impunity. Employees often seemed to look the other way. Yet they continue to maintain iron-fisted fiscal control over economy-size coffee cups?
Something, it seemed to me, was out of whack. The combination of the dreary movie, the staff's intransigence and the exorbitant prices left me morose. Moviegoing was supposed to be about escape; I felt the need for an escape from the escape. Once, it was just bathroom lines and the woman in the row in front of you with the hairdo modeled after the World Trade Center. Now, there were inventory issues.
Was I the only person who felt the effort was less and less worth it, that a surliness was encroaching everywhere? It's no longer possible, for instance, to shush talkers in a theater. They double the volume when you politely ask them to lower it.
During "Gladiator," a woman decided I was her personal coat rack and took profane umbrage when I pointed out that she had placed a blimplike down-filled jacket in my lap. At "Best in Show," a family oblivious to the ruckus they were creating smuggled in a crunchy, odoriferous dinner for four.
Yes, the new multiplexes, with their physical amenities, can be a vast improvement over the older, smaller theaters. I'd give a special Oscar to the film executive who first uttered those glorious words, "stadium seating." And with all deference to the North Shore Animal League, I can even take a big, commercial doggie movie to heart now and then. Lizzie and I emerged swollen-eyed and inconsolable from "My Dog Skip," a heartbreaking story about a young boy and his Jack Russell terrier. 
But my experience of late has been more of the "102 Dalmatians" variety. Maybe the disappointment I'm feeling leaving the theater is the result of impossible expectations, though even studio executives have been complaining about a lackluster year for critical and commercial hits. All I know is that I can no longer recall the last time any friend of mine remarked in passing, "We went to a great movie last night."
On weekends, my wife and I play the same scene over and over. One of us declares a hankering for a good movie. The other reads aloud from the listings. After a dispiriting recital and an informal cost-benefit analysis, we inevitably stay in and order Mexican food.
So I've begun to step back from first-run filmdom. But all has not been a cinematic blackout. My retreat has prompted an advance on the archives, and the old VCR is working overtime. Over the holidays I began a vigil at the Hitchcock shelves in the video store, and was soon renting everything from "Notorious" to "Vertigo." I aimed a remote at Channel 54 on the cable box, where American Movie Classics resides, and soon devoured the likes of "High Noon," "The Man Who Knew Too Much" and "Cabaret."
Far from the madding movie houses, I'm feeling better about movies again. And luxury of luxuries, I sip my coffee from any size mug in the cupboard.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mark Matcho) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE THEATERS (90%); FILM (90%); DOGS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



138 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Finding Value in the Wreck of Technology

BYLINE:  By JAN M. ROSEN 

 BODY:
DISILLUSIONED by the Icarus-like performance of the technology-laden Nasdaq, a once-highflying market, many investors took the one consolation available last month -- selling shares so they could claim tax losses. That, of course, sent the battered stocks down further.
 The Nasdaq composite index fell 39.3 percent last year, and was off 54.4 percent from its high, with technology shares largely responsible for the plunge. In contrast, the more diversified Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost only 10.1 percent of its value last year. Have the resulting low prices created opportunities in technology funds, or would investors still holding such funds be well advised to recognize reality and join the exodus? 
 Both independent investment advisers and fund managers see more buying opportunity than reason to sell, especially after the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates last Wednesday. But the euphoria over dot-coms is dead; technology portfolio managers are now looking toward infrastructure companies with solid earnings and business models. Among those cited by several managers were Cisco Systems, JDS Uniphase and Sun Microsystems -- "the steel mills of the Internet," as Michael Stolper, an independent investment adviser, called them. 
"It looks like most of the pain is behind us," said Mr. Stolper, whose firm, Stolper & Company of San Diego, invests in both stocks and mutual funds for institutions and affluent individual clients. Technology "is the only sector fund we see as an evergreen," he added, because it is key to enhancing productivity. Still, he cautioned, "when you get this kind of carnage in a sector, it takes time to come back."
HE said that the Fed's move would set the stage for a market recovery, including technology, in the second half. Mr. Stolper, who likes the T. Rowe Price Science and Technology fund, said that it was important to sort through the sector one company at a time -- and, given the complicated nature of technology, he preferred to leave that to a specialized fund manager.
Similarly, Jack Holden, vice president of Fort Washington Investment Advisors and portfolio manager of the Touchstone Value Plus fund, which has significant technology holdings, describes himself as "a big believer that tech will continue to improve productivity." Even so, he predicted that many issues could be battered further over the next six to nine months.
"Later, there will be a lot of good names you could buy," he said, using the value approach to investing. In its recent boom years, technology has been favored mainly by growth funds, not value funds.
"We're starting to see a lot of stocks that are coming into our wheelhouse," based on their market valuations, Mr. Holden said. He compared the recent surge, then tumble, of technology issues to "the energy bubble" in the 1970's and 1980, when oil shortages led to tremendous demand for anything "that looked or smelled like energy." In 1980, the energy sector's market value peaked at 28.3 percent of the S.& P. 500, he said; at the end of 2000 it was 6.7 percent. Technology peaked in March 2000 at 34 percent of the value of the S.& P. 500, he said, but by the end of the year it was down to 22 percent.
"I don't expect it to fall to 6 percent," Mr. Holden said. Still, technology share prices climbed much higher than justified by their fundamental value, and technology "has not troughed yet," he said.
"These stocks look cheap, but it's a value trap," he added. "They can get cheaper. As value investors, we like tangibles" like hardware and software, he said, pointing to "good, solid infrastructure plays like Cisco, Sun, Nortel and JDS Uniphase."
He is cautious even with those companies, he said, because "I'm not sure how deep the economic slowdown will go." But "a lot of bellwether names will play out long-term," he added. "After the euphoric bubble, people are starting to say valuations do matter."
His largest technology holding is Lexmark International, the printer company spun off by I.B.M. His reasons have less to do with technology than with the old Gillette model of making money on the blade, not the razor. Profit margins on printers are not impressive, he said, but margins on color ink cartridges are about 60 percent, "and if you have kids, you know how much they print out from the Internet."
He also holds Computer Associates, which writes mainframe software. He sees good prospects for the company because "I.B.M. is rolling out its new mainframe."
Larry Carroll, president of Carroll Financial Associates, an independent financial planning firm in Charlotte, N.C., said that he saw a moderate buying opportunity in technology but that "the Nasdaq is not going to hit 5,000" this year.
"I see a 15 to 20 percent bounce in tech stocks in the first quarter," he said. "Because of tax-loss selling at year-end, the market is oversold, and it really sets it up for a nice bounce."
Further, Mr. Carroll said, the tax-loss selling has given the technology funds a tax advantage they did not have previously: tax-loss carry forwards that they can use to offset future capital gains. As a result, the funds' shareholders will not face the big tax bills they had to pay in recent years. "It will make these funds much more tax-efficient," he said.
Among mutual funds, he particularly likes Pimco Innovation and Pimco Global Innovation. 
Terry E. Banet, vice president and portfolio manager at J. P. Morgan Investment Management, also likes infrastructure plays like Cisco, EMC, Sun, Microsoft, Intel and Texas Instruments. "Our philosophy is that we don't bail out of a sector," she said. "The rate of growth is slowing, but technology is not falling into the abyss. It may grow 50 percent instead of 60 percent." She sees the growth coming in "network mission-critical pieces," not in sales of personal computers. 
Her advice to fund investors is "to go back to asset-allocation decisions," and to review their tolerance for risk in deciding whether to sell current technology fund holdings or to buy new ones.
Mr. Stolper, for one, sold some technology fund shares last spring because their gains had overweighted his holdings in that sector. "It wasn't prescience or brilliance," he said. Still, by following a disciplined approach to asset allocation, he avoided much of the pain felt by many investors.
For investors who make similar asset-allocation decisions, Ms. Banet advised: "Don't snap back to cash. We like to stay invested. Technology is one area of the market, but the United States is not built on technology alone." She said drugs, finance and consumer goods were also important sectors to consider.
James W. Broadfoot, president of Ivy Management Inc. and manager of the Ivy Global Science and Technology fund, cautioned that because of the sector's volatility, it was especially important for investors to have a long-term perspective. Over the next 18 to 24 months, he said, he is optimistic about the prospects for a number of large-cap technology issues he holds, like Intel, Cisco Systems, Sun Microsystems and EMC.
"It would be a tremendous mistake to get out today. There is no question in my mind that technology is going to be a big growth engine in the economy for years to come," he said.
Another optimist is Marian U. Pardo, a managing director of J. P. Morgan who heads the small-cap equities group, which manages more than $6.6 billion in assets for institutional and individual clients. She said she saw huge opportunities for investors in technology funds. 
"It takes a strong stomach" in a battered market, Ms. Pardo said, but the fund managers who will make the most money for shareholders in the long run are the ones who figure out which companies "will rise from the ashes."
To find those managers, she said, look for experience -- portfolio managers who have been through several business cycles and know how to handle volatility.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Back to Earth"Technology funds, having led the way up in 1998 and 1999, led the way down last year. Chart shows technology funds and U.S. diversified funds since 1998.(Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); BONDS (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (52%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (90%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (55%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%); FORT WASHINGTON INVESTMENT ADVISORS INC (52%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (90%); JDU (TSX) (55%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



139 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
Same Yardstick, Different Races

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a newsletter based in Annandale, Va. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS any track coach knows, a mile is nothing like a marathon. Many runners who do well over short distances lack the endurance for long ones.
 Successful investing, of course, is more like a marathon than a mile. It involves a long-term commitment. Many mutual fund investors, however, do not remember that principle -- and one reason for their forgetfulness is that Morningstar's ratings sometimes blur the distinction. 
 When comparing a fund that has been around for just three years with another that has a record of a decade or more, Morningstar assumes, in effect, that the younger fund can keep up its returns indefinitely.
That does not mean that investors should ignore Morningstar. No rating system is perfect, because aggressive and conservative investors seek different kinds of guidance. But if you understand the ins and outs of Morningstar's rating system, you can use it more intelligently.
Morningstar is fully aware of the problems of comparing younger and older funds. According to Don Phillips, Morningstar's managing director, these pitfalls are one reason that the firm discourages investors from automatically interpreting changes in a fund's ranking as buy or sell signals. On occasion, Morningstar has publicly bemoaned the fact that investors give its rating system more importance than it warrants. Furthermore, Morningstar has resisted pressure from investment firms to rate funds that have been around for only a year. 
Still, many investors continue to make decisions based on changes in a fund's Morningstar ranking. According to the Financial Research Corporation, based in Boston, mutual funds that received four or five stars from Morningstar in 1999 enjoyed net inflows of $224 billion for that year, while those rated lower suffered net outflows of $132 billion.
Top-rated funds receive five stars from Morningstar, while those at the bottom get one. The ratings are based on Morningstar's measure of risk-adjusted performance, and grading is done on a curve. The middle 35 percent receive three stars, while only 10 percent get one star and 10 percent get five.
The approach is straightforward enough. But problems arise when Morningstar uses it to grade funds with records of widely varying lengths. How can these funds be fairly compared with one another? 
Morningstar's solution is to calculate a separate star grade for each of three periods -- the last 3, 5 and 10 years. (Funds that are less than three years old are not rated.) Morningstar then combines those grades into one overall rating. If a fund has been around for only three years, its overall rating is the same as its three-year grade. But if a fund is at least 10 years old, Morningstar's system gives a 50 percent weighting to the 10-year grade, 30 percent to the 5-year and 20 percent to the 3-year.
Under this approach, however, a greater percentage of younger funds than veterans earn five stars. That is because luck plays a bigger role in shorter-term performance, resulting in greater extremes. So a higher percentage of 3-year-old funds than 10-year-olds earn five stars.
As a result, some investors are drawn to younger funds whose performance might have come in large part from luck. The wise investor would favor a veteran fund over an upstart, even if the upstart had slightly better lifetime performance.
Some people may argue that Morningstar's approach works on balance, since a greater percentage of three-year-old funds than decade-old funds also receive just one star. But that does not discourage fund families from offering new funds in hopes of garnering five stars -- and the huge influx of new capital that inevitably follows. If the upstart then turns into a loser, it can be quietly shut down and replaced.
Morningstar's favoring of younger funds was first noted in 1998 by academics including William F. Sharpe, a 1990 Nobel laureate in economics, and Marshall Blume, of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. 
A new study has found a different problem in the way Morningstar compares young and old funds. The study, by Matthew Morey, a finance professor at Pace University, discovered a statistical quirk making it more likely that the overall star ratings of older funds will rise than fall. As a result, even investors who use these ratings only to assess veteran funds can go astray, by holding on to a deteriorating fund longer than they might otherwise. The study is available at webpage.pace.edu/mmorey/ mstarage11.pdf.
Can Morningstar do anything to correct these problems? Mr. Phillips said there was no easy way to avoid them in combining a fund's performance over different periods into a single rating. 
But two finance professors, Andrew Metrick and Robert Stambaugh, both of the Wharton School, say Morningstar could use some statistical techniques to reflect the inherently higher risk for younger funds.
Imagine that you are choosing between two funds -- one that has existed for just a few years and one for two decades. If both have average annual returns of, say, 20 percent, and their returns have been equally volatile, most of us would invest in the veteran fund. We would appreciate intuitively that investing in the younger fund carries much higher risk.
Until and unless Morningstar takes this risk into account, how should you go about picking a mutual fund? Here are three guidelines:
* Take Morningstar at its word that its ratings should not be seen as buy or sell signals. Its ratings should be where your research begins, not ends.
* Be wary of any fund that has been around less than five years. This may seem harsh, since many domestic equity funds fall into this category. But to put it bluntly, there is too much garbage among younger funds, even those whose returns seem impressive. Following this rule means missing the chance of finding a gem, but also avoids the much higher likelihood of investing in a loser. A corollary is to be wary of any fund whose manager has changed over the last five years.
* When comparing funds that are at least 10 years old, do not rely on Morningstar's overall rating but instead on its 10-year grade only. That eliminates any statistical distortion.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Young and Unpredictable"In mutual fund rankings by Morningstar Inc., a fund that has been around three to five years is more likely to earn an extreme five- or one-star rating than a fund that is at least 10 years old. All ratings are through September 30. Chart shows funds that are at least 10 years old; funds that are at least 5 years old but less than 10; funds that are at least 3 years old but less than 5 (of all mutual funds within each category).(Source: Prof. Matthew Morey, Pace University; Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRACK & FIELD (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); RUNNING (90%); RANKINGS (87%); BONDS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%) STOCKS AND BONDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

ORGANIZATION: MORNINGSTAR INC 

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



140 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Beth Miller, Benjamin MacInnes

 BODY:
Beth Andrea Miller, a daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Miller of New Canaan, Conn., was married there yesterday to Benjamin Coffin MacInnes, a son of Mr. and Mrs. 
Gordon MacInnes of Morristown, N.J. 
 Msgr. Kevin W. Wallin performed the ceremony at St. Aloysius Roman Catholic Church. The Rev. Charles L. Rice, an Episcopal priest, took part in the service. 
 Mrs. MacInnes, 33, works in the marketing department of 6FigureJobs.com, an online job board in Darien, Conn., where she directs site content. She graduated from Emerson College and received a master's degree in education from Fordham. 
The bride's father is a partner in the New Canaan Group, a financial services company in Stamford, Conn. Her mother, Barbara Miller, is a former president of the Garden Center of New Canaan, a town beautification organization.
Mr. MacInnes, 30, was until last month an account manager at OpenTable.com, a online restaurant reservations service in New York. He graduated from Wittenberg University. 
His father, a former New Jersey state senator who represented Morris County from 1993 to 1997, is the president of the New Jersey Institute for School Innovation, an educational policy organization in Newark. The bridegroom's mother, Blair MacInnes, is a trustee of Drew University and a founding trustee of Seeds, a nonprofit organization in Hightstown, N.J., that helps prepare economically disadvantaged students for independent secondary schools.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); RELIGION (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: OPENTABLE INC (57%)

TICKER: OPEN (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541990 ALL OTHER PROFESSIONAL, SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: MILLER, BETH ANDREA (BETH ANDREA MACINNES); MACINNES, BENJAMIN COFFIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (57%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



141 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: NOTICED; 
Latest Economic Indicator: A Depression Doll is Hot

BYLINE:  By RUTH LA FERLA 

 BODY:
STEP aside, Diva Starz, those brazen, 9-inch Kewpies bleating, "Let's go to the mall." Make way for Kit Kittredge, a creature of a higher order. 
 Introduced last fall, Kit is the latest in the wildly popular American Girls historical dolls collection. She stands 18 inches high in her Mary Janes, as quaint and perky as she is intriguing to the 7- to 12-year-old fans whose affluent lives are so unlike her own. She steps out of a distant time, but one with perhaps a disquieting echo for today: the Great Depression. 
 Kit, a creation of the Pleasant Company of Middleton, Wis., which is a division of Mattel Toys, is just the latest artifact to wash up in a wavelet of Depression-age nostalgia, one that encompasses reproduction gooseneck lamps, rag rugs, iceboxes and walnut swivel chairs. But she may well be the most compelling. 
"Kit looks so real," said Katerina Klavon, 9, of Silver Spring, Md., who just purchased her own Kit doll with savings from gifts and her allowance. "She really seems like she's just going to say, 'Hi, nice to meet you.' But what really picked up my interest was reading about how she helped her family get through the Depression." 
That sort of enthusiasm has helped make Kit the most coveted of the seven American Girl dolls, and at a time of plunging consumer confidence and intimations of recession, also the most eerily relevant. 
Conceived by her makers as a beacon of pluck in times of adversity, Kit is to her admirers both an antidote to "affluenza," that malaise that pop psychologists have identified as afflicting the contemporary rich, and a symbolic link to a fast-receding past. 
"My idea was to give parents a way to start conversation with a child, to introduce the notion that high times may be transient, to prepare ourselves," said Valerie Tripp, the author of the six-part book series that accompanies Kit. There is also a kind of superstition at work, she conceded: "If I talk about the demon, it won't come."
In invoking hard times, the doll's manufacturer took a calculated risk. "It crossed our minds that a character like Kit might turn off the public," said Julia Prohaska, brand director for the Pleasant Company. She placed her bets, however, on "an interesting quality about girls this age," she said, adding: "They are fascinated with hardship. And we had a gut instinct they would find this story compelling, maybe all the more so because they live in such relative comfort."
Since the doll's introduction in September, its initial sales have outperformed those of all predecessors, including Felicity of the Colonial era and Molly from World War II, Ms. Prohaska said. The company does not disclose sales for individual dolls, but says it has sold a total of five million, and 60 million books, since the collection was introduced in 1986.
To some students of popular culture, Kit symbolizes a way of life that, harsh as it was, seems in retrospect to have been more stable, emotionally rich and rewarding than the lives we know. 
"To some extent we've romanticized the Depression," said Dr. Michael Marsden, an expert in popular culture, now provost and vice president for academic affairs at Eastern Kentucky University. "The stories of survival, what people did to make ends meet, actually became, in the minds of our parents and grandparents, illustrations of a time of great suffering but also of great heroism." 
In an era of unprecedented affluence, the notion of people setting aside their own wants to think about others can seem exotic, he added. From a modern vantage, Kit is an alien, but she provides her devotees with something like a moral compass. 
"Our mothers and fathers used to tell stories about having to make potato soup and put cardboard in their shoes when they had nothing," recalled Dr. Marsden, who is in his late 50's. "Such tales were meant to show our parents' ingenuity, their creativity, how they learned to survive." Viewed from this perspective, "the Depression was a moral triumph," he said, adding, "Today our society needs to be reminded of its own successes, moral as well as social." 
The first book in Ms. Tripp's series, "Meet Kit," portrays the 9-year-old heroine as crushed but resilient when she learns that her family must take in boarders to make ends meet. By the second installment, "Kit Learns a Lesson," Kit is pinching pennies and volunteering in a soup kitchen. Small wonder that contemporary mothers find her so endearing -- the dimpled embodiment of thriftiness, courage and resourcefulness many thought went out with Nancy Drew. 
"Kit could be a touchstone for contemporary girls, whether or not they actually go through hard times," said Didi Barrett, chairwoman of the board of Girls Incorporated of New York City, a youth organization for girls 6 to 16. Ms. Barrett, the mother of Annabel, 9, plans to present her daughter with a Kit doll of her own. She finds Kit a worthwhile role model, she said, never mind her cost, a dizzying $84 (including the latest paperback, "Kit's Surprise: A Christmas Story"), which might seem at odds with the character's message of thriftiness.
Sue Levytsky, a freelance writer in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., for one, noted the irony in an expensive toy meant to impart the lessons of hard times. Ms. Levytsky, who purchased a Kit for her 6-year-old daughter, Arden, observed dryly: "The fact that Kit is a Depression doll gives some of us a larger permission to buy. You tell yourself there's some credibility attached to this thing because the doll gives your child a hands-on historical learning experience." 
Kit's creators argue that her fans draw a kind of spiritual sustenance from the doll and her story. "Children are impressionable," Ms. Tripp said. "They have fears. In a disposable culture, they begin to wonder, Am I plastic and disposable too? What Kit has to teach them is that when everything that they own is gone, what they have left is a work in progress, which is their character."
Long before she was a doll, Kit took shape in Ms. Tripp's imagination as "a sturdy little character who marches ever forward," the author said in an interview. In her first book, Ms. Tripp describes her heroine as an avatar of spunk, a practical girl who "thought it was a waste of time to worry about a problem if you could be doing something to solve it." 
To her fans, Kit's can-do spirit is infectious. Katerina, the Maryland 9-year-old, said: "She taught me that you have to do something about it when you get in trouble. I think Kit had a lot of courage to get the money so the family could have their electricity turned on for Christmas. Hearing about the Depression sort of upset me a little, but it didn't scare me." 
Kit recalls an era that, despite its challenges, seems in hindsight to have been blissfully simple. Her pet possession -- a clanky black manual typewriter -- exerts a fascination even on a gadget-obsessed generation that reflexively calls in the experts whenever a piece of technology breaks down.
Growing up in the 1930's, "we weren't so dependent on outsiders," said Marcia Day, 72, a retired home economics teacher in Hinsdale, Ill. She added, "These days, you even get your lettuce cut up for you." Ms. Day said she was thrilled when the youngest of her six granddaughters was given a Kit doll. "When we were young, we didn't run to the Disney store to buy new toys," she said. "We made our own out of old spools, shells and buttons. Kit's like that. I would like to think she helps my grandchildren understand the worthiness of improvisation, imagination and self-reliance.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arden Shwayder, 6, and her Kit doll, a reminder of harder times. (Allan Barnes for The New York Times)(pg. 4); Kit, the resilient Depression doll (apples not included) from the Pleasant Company. (pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); WRITERS (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%) TOYS; DOLLS 

COMPANY: PLEASANT CO (71%)

ORGANIZATION: PLEASANT CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: LA FERLA, RUTH 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



142 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1809 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
The Party Crashers, Growling Loudly

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
SPIRO L. VRUSHO wanted to end 1999 with one more confection from the new-economy banquet. 
 Like so many other investors, Mr. Vrusho, 65, a retired I.B.M. salesman who lives in Stamford, Conn., had already piled his plate high. He had bought Microsoft, Intel, Cisco Systems, Oracle and WorldCom. He had bought and sold the Kinetics Internet fund, the best-performing mutual fund of 1998. He had bought all five mutual funds run by Garrett Van Wagoner, a money manager based in San Francisco who is known for his aggressive technology investing. And Mr. Vrusho had bought a mutual fund that tracked an Internet stock index. 
 Mr. Vrusho, known as Spike, was drawn to those investments in part by what he saw on CNBC and in Money, Smart Money and three other financial magazines he reads regularly. Thus emboldened, he thought there was room for one more rocket in his portfolio. So he bought $35,700 worth of the new Jacob Internet fund. "I believe in technology, and I'm willing to take, even at my age, some swings, with the feeling that technology will go back up," Mr. Vrusho said. 
So the swings came. Unless they have spent the last few months encased in a block of ice in Times Square, investors already know how the bull market went bust. After several years when investors took double-digit gains for granted, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 10.1 percent in 2000, and the average growth fund was down 11.3 percent. It was the first down year for growth funds, and stock funds more generally, since 1994. 
Technology and telecommunications, sectors that soared in 1999, flamed out in 2000 -- though they were reignited, at least briefly, when the Federal Reserve cut interest rates last week. Energy, health care and financial services rebounded in 2000 from past setbacks. 
Value fund managers, who search the market's bargain bins instead of paying for the latest fashions, came back strong last year. By year-end, they had stanched the billions of dollars in monthly outflows that they had suffered for so long. 
The market reversal last year confirmed that a new investing milennium had not arrived. Diversification and investing for the long term still made more sense than buying stock in companies hardly deserving of early-stage venture capital. 
For many investors, old realities are starting to suggest themselves only now. Mr. Vrusho picked the worst-performing mutual fund last year in Jacob Internet, out of more than 8,000 possibilities. By year-end, the fund had fallen 79.1 percent, his investment had shrunk to about $10,000 and he conceded that he was "a little bit uncertain about my strategy." 
And even defensive. "I am thinking about value funds, but I haven't analyzed them enough," he said. "And I do have some cash," which is the last resort of the chastened. 
As the year progressed, and more investors learned humility the hard way, many turned away from stock-picking and toward mutual funds, including the stodgier ones. "A lot of investors who had been feeling really smart in '99 started to appreciate the role a professional money manager can play in your life," said Christine Benz, a senior analyst at Morningstar, the fund tracking firm. "Picking your own stocks doesn't look so easy." 
Even some of the most storied investors suffered. In April, George Soros started scaling back his hedge fund empire, partly because of hits from Internet stocks. He changed the name of his once-aggressive Quantum fund to the Quantum Endowment, signaling a more modest approach that caused many of his investors to depart. 
WHO can win, if even Mr. Soros cannot? The 76-year-old mutual fund industry, perhaps.
The fund business has faced many threats over the last year, primarily from newfangled financial products. Exchange-traded funds promote themselves as cheaper versions of index mutual funds that have the added flexibility of trading throughout the day, like stocks. And Foliofn, a fledgling company in Vienna, Va., offers a way to buy stocks in bundles that look a lot like mutual funds.
Do-it-yourself traders were reminded again last year that many fund managers could not muster a better return than the market over all. And firms both online and off are now selling privately managed stock accounts to the middle class. 
In September, Red Herring magazine summed up the accumulated doubts about how a financial product invented in 1924 would fare in the 21st century. "The Death of Mutual Funds" read the headline, under a picture of a toppled dinosaur. A recent report from Forrester Research heralded "the coming demise of mutual funds." The report predicted that funds would lose more than $1 trillion of assets, from $6.8 trillion now, and shrink to 5,000 funds, from more than 8,000, by 2010. 
That may yet prove true. By November, investors were growing so frustrated with their losses that stock funds' net sales dropped sharply, to $5.7 billion, by far the slowest monthly sales of the year and well below the $19.2 billion in October. 
BUT mutual fund extinction hardly seems imminent. After all the clamor, 2000 was a record year for sales. By the end of November, stock funds had net inflows of $297.4 billion for the year, already crushing the previous sales record of $227 billion for all of 1997, according to the Investment Company Institute, a trade group.
One reason was the waning appetite for self-reliant investing. The typical customer at Charles Schwab, for instance, put a larger chunk of his portfolio into mutual funds last year than in 1999, reversing a trend. 
Investors, however, are not necessarily ready to forget technology and load up on Chevron or Ford. If they are not so confident in their own ability to pick stocks, they are by no means ready to give up aggressive-growth funds. The rate cut by the Fed last week, after six increases, is likely to reaffirm their faith. "People are still looking for the great moonshot year like '99," Ms. Benz said.
Value funds, however, remain earthbound, if relatively stable. In 2000, the average value fund was up 9.72 percent, according to Morningstar, slightly more than the gains of almost 8 percent in 1999 and 1998. 
Growth funds were much more volatile. They were down 11.33 percent, on average, last year, after gaining 55.09 percent in 1999 and 22.18 percent in 1998. "Yes, value funds are doing better, but that doesn't compare to the 50 percent, 100 percent gains of growth funds" in 1999, Ms. Benz added, "when even a lousy tech fund gained 100 percent."
Carl Wittnebert, research director at TrimTabs.com of Santa Rosa, Calif., said that last year, the fund flows tracked by his firm defied the expected trend -- that the average investor would bail out of volatile companies when they cooled. "It's incredible to me that people haven't lost faith in aggressive growth and technology," he said. "The biggest fear that remains for people is that they will miss out on those lottery-like returns. Why haven't they sold all their technology funds en masse? Because they're in fairy land."
For decades, the industry has encouraged investors to buy funds that feature the narrowest sectors or the greatest growth. If the fund companies preach diversification, some people who monitor the industry say, they will sell whatever moves off the shelf, and that has meant ever more sector funds. 
"The public is forgetting about reducing risk through diversification, and the industry is aiding and abetting them by providing them narrower and narrower focused funds," said Burton J. Greenwald, who runs a fund consulting firm in Philadelphia that bears his name. "You're slicing the baloney thinner and thinner. You go from health care to biotech to genomics. There's no end to it."
The new economy spawned an especially powerful chain reaction of mutual fund fission. Technology funds begat Internet funds, which begat infrastructure, networking, e-commerce and wireless funds, followed by funds that invested in briefly glamorous alphanumeric combinations like B2C and B2B. Several funds even took stock tips from World Wide Web message boards.
BY the end of last year, fund companies were trying desperately to contain the radiation. They went so far as to strike the word "Internet" from the titles of some funds and add the word "value," previously a marketing untouchable, to other funds. 
The Monument Internet fund was up 273.2 percent in 1999 and down 56.9 percent in 2000. Today, it is called Monument Digital Technology. 
"The investors that are rewarded the most are the ones that are diversified and don't bet on one style of investing," said Robert J. Froehlich, global investment strategist at Scudder Kemper Investments and the new, reassuring voice of the firm's advertising campaign. "In 1999, people weren't investing; they were playing the lottery."
If growth and technology funds continue to falter, investors will eventually desert. These funds' losses, greater than those of the S.& P. 500, helped account for the sharp drop in fund sales at the end of 2000. Still, it is hard to let go, even for an investor like Mr. Vrusho, who watched his portfolio lose one-third of its value last year.
He is not close to abandoning his technology holdings, not even Jacob Internet. "These kinds of swings are expected in aggressive funds, and you have to take the risk to get those big gains," he said. He plans to invest an additional $4,000 with Jacob Internet and its 31-year-old manager, Ryan Jacob, this month. 
Mr. Vrusho was one of Mr. Jacob's early adherents, and their fortunes have since corresponded. Mr. Jacob once ran the Kinetics Internet fund, one of the first Internet funds. He joined it at age 28 in 1998, when it had a mere $149,754 in assets. He daringly bet them all on the likes of Yahoo, GeoCities and Lycos. By year-end, the fund had gained 198 percent. So many new customers jammed the fund's few phone lines that the headquarters, in the home of a retired Long Island postal worker, a friend of the fund owner's mother, had 24 more lines installed in one day. 
Mr. Jacob landed on the cover of Kiplinger's Personal Finance magazine, and one customer dedicated an online fan club to him.
Now his performance has gone from first to worst. "I'm glad the year's almost over," he said in late December. "It's been a brutal year for everyone." 
Yet he still has $60 million to work with. His investors, by and large, have not abandoned him. "Money comes in every day, money goes out every day," Mr. Jacob said. Withdrawals have been modest. "You keep waiting for outflows, but it doesn't happen."
Thanks in part to Mr. Vrusho. In six months, he turned $58,000 into $115,400 by investing with Mr. Jacob at Kinetics Internet. Now, Mr. Vrusho is not ready to give up on his new fund. "I've been doggedly holding on to it," he said. "My feeling is that if he takes such a big beating now, he'll improve dramatically in the future."

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Detail of "The Bear Dance" by William Holbrook Beard. Courtesy of the New-York Historical Society)(pg. 17); Despite big losses last year, Spiro L. Vrusho, an I.B.M. retiree, says "technology will go back up." (Joseph Kugielsky for The New York Times)(pg. 32) Chart: "Market Reversal"While technology and telecommunications fell to earth last year, health care and biotech continued their 1999 gains. Chart shows top funds of 1999. Chart shows top funds of 2000.(Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



143 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 2273 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
A Manager's Fight to Keep a Winning Streak Alive

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
ON April 4, when William H. Miller III visited a class at the Columbia Business School, he sounded like the old-school value investor that his critics say he is not. Technology holdings had helped power his Legg Mason Value Trust to an unmatched, nine-year winning streak against the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 But on that day, as he addressed the students in Michael Mauboussin's securities analysis class, he said that technology stocks had risen too high and added that, although they had been dropping, they were headed for a greater fall. 
 "Valuations have not mattered in four or five years, and they have reached an extreme level," Mr. Miller told the class. "We've reached a period where valuation will begin to matter again, so we have begun reducing our technology weighting." 
To Mr. Mauboussin, the message was dire: "He said it's over for technology." 
Mr. Miller was right. The Nasdaq composite index had finished that day at 4,149. It dropped 20 percent in the next eight trading days and finished the year at 2,471. 
Until early 1999, when Mr. Miller seemingly could do no wrong, that tale probably would have ended with him making just the right adjustments, so that his fund could race ahead of the overall market and score big gains again. But by late 2000, Mr. Miller appeared to have lost the golden touch. 
His phenomenal success had led investors to pour billions of dollars into what had been an obscure fund sold through Legg Mason, a brokerage firm based in Baltimore.
But some rivals were crying foul. They argued that a value investor -- supposedly one who trolls among companies that have fallen out of favor -- had no business owning some of the pricey stocks, including America Online and Dell Computer, that had propelled the Value Trust's rise.
The fund's early investors had no complaints. The average annual return for the Value Trust since Mr. Miller, 50, took over its management in October 1990 has been more than 23 percent, compared with 18.2 percent for the S.& P. 500.
His consistency has made him a reluctant, rumpled star of the investment world. In style and demeanor, he more closely resembles Warren Buffett and his investing partner, Charles Munger, than Peter Lynch, the promotion-minded former manager of the popular Fidelity Magellan fund.
"In my view, he's the best mutual fund manager in America," said Mr. Mauboussin, an investment strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston, who said the Value Trust was the only actively managed fund he owned. "He's had a couple of things that have really land-mined this year. But the guy made more money than God in AOL and Dell."
During a presentation to reporters in mid-December at the "21" Club, Mr. Miller's modest nature was on full display. He projected a Calvin & Hobbes cartoon strip that showed a boy saying, "How can something seem so plausible at the time and so idiotic in retrospect," as a water balloon bursts in his hands.
"That's the way that I feel with a lot of the stocks we bought this year," Mr. Miller said. He made no attempt to sugar-coat the truth: It has been a while since he made a big bet on a stock that did not soon blow up in his face.
"The three names we bought last year all collapsed; the one we bought this year collapsed," he said, then joked: "So, I think we'll buy none next year."
At that point, with less than three weeks left in the year, the Value Trust was dead even with the S.& P. 500. Value Trust had fallen far behind the market early in the year as dot-coms and other technology stocks rocketed on. But then Mr. Miller's timely sales of chunks of AOL and some other winners, along with his purchase of bank stocks, narrowed the gap, renewing his chances of keeping his streak alive.
"We're not having a disastrous year because we sold a lot of tech and rolled into financials in the spring when the financials were getting croaked," he said. His fund's return would have been 10 to 20 percentage points worse than the market's, he said, "if we had just sat and done nothing all year."
As the year-end neared, Mr. Miller knew what it would take to pull out another market-beating performance. First, financial stocks would have to match the market's return for the next few weeks. That would probably happen, he said then. Then, one or more of the beaten-down technology stocks in his portfolio, either Gateway, Amazon.com or Nextel Communications, would have to rally. That was a longer shot, he said. 
Either way, the outcome was out of his hands. He planned to make few, if any, changes to the portfolio and would not even stick around the office to see how things turned out. Instead, he planned to retreat during the holidays to Santa Fe, N.M., the home of one of his passions, the Santa Fe Institute, a research organization where scholars like Murray Gell-Mann, the Nobel Prize-winning physicist, hold forth on esoteric matters.
For more than a decade, Mr. Miller has made pilgrimages to the institute to study complex, adaptive systems, a simple model of which might be an ant colony, a more complex one the stock market. Among the applicable lessons he has learned from other institute regulars, he said, are how some apparent competitors, be they birds or computer makers, can coexist and thrive.
Mr. Mauboussin remembered when Mr. Miller first broached the subject of complexity theory a few years ago. They were sitting in another of Mr. Miller's favorite places, his seats overlooking home plate at Camden Yards in Baltimore.
"I went to an Orioles game with him -- he's got great seats -- and he said, 'You know, you're a guy that ought to start looking at this complexity stuff,' " Mr. Mauboussin recounted. Mr. Mauboussin followed Mr. Miller to Santa Fe and now lectures there on the futility of trying to outperform the stock market consistently.
But he has not persuaded his friend to stop trying. Mr. Miller says he is paid to deliver higher returns, after fees and taxes, than investors could get from a low-cost index fund. So, he has made a science of deconstructing the S.& P. 500, studying its moves like a baseball scout. 
But instead of turning the Value Trust into a virtual index fund -- as so many other managers have done by stuffing their funds with the largest stocks -- Mr. Miller adheres to what he considers the tenets of value investing, originally set by Benjamin Graham. In short, Mr. Miller buys stocks that he thinks are selling significantly below the present value of their future cash flows.
But that does not always lead him to cheap stocks. He was widely criticized two years ago by other money managers for owning AOL and Dell, two stocks that had soared. Mr. Miller always gave a measured response, no matter the tone of the attack.
In July 1998, when James J. Cramer, a fast-trading hedge fund manager, published a vituperative column on theStreet.com, a financial Web site that Mr. Cramer founded, Mr. Miller thought the Value Trust was an intended target. "Value in this world has simply become a masquerade," Mr. Cramer wrote, "a mean-spirited marketing tactic that lures people in the door who would otherwise have no desire to own such nosebleed stocks." 
In a "Dear Jim" letter, also published on the site, Mr. Miller said that he had not wavered, but that maybe his critics had. "Finding good businesses at cheap prices, taking a big position and then holding for years used to be sensible investing," he said. "What they seem to object to most is that we didn't sell Dell at $8 like the other value guys did." Six months later, Dell's price had doubled again.
The Value Trust is often mentioned in news media reports as a likely target of a new campaign by the Securities and Exchange Commission for truth in labeling in mutual funds. Discussing the issue, Mr. Miller said, "It's a no-win situation to go fight the S.E.C. on stuff that they want to do."
But, he added, he doubts that the S.E.C. will tell him to take the "value" out of Value Trust. "The name Value Trust is not a description of the types of companies that we own; it's a description of our objective in delivering value to our shareholders," he said. "If they're going to determine what counts as value, they'll never find any justification from any finance textbook or anybody who ever has written about value or valuation."
Mr. Miller would know. A graduate student in philosophy at Johns Hopkins before he joined Legg Mason in 1982, he is a voracious reader on subjects as diverse as economics, physics and poetry. He is always recommending books to friends and fellow portfolio managers.
Asked for his current reading list, he peered into a black leather briefcase stuffed with documents before remembering that his books were in another bag. Wherever it was, he said, it contained a biography of the philosopher Charles Peirce and a paperback edition of "Lives of the Poets," a 992-page history of English-language poetry. 
As philosophical as he is analytical, he readily acknowledges mistakes but offers no apologies for the recurring implosions in his portfolio. Eastman Kodak, his only new pick last year, was off 40.6 percent. But he points out that two of his recent winners, Waste Management and McKesson HBOC, looked like big mistakes when they fell sharply after he started buying them.
The freshest disaster is Gateway, the computer maker, whose stock dropped 36 percent on Nov. 30 after the company warned that sales were slowing. Mr. Miller had been loading up on Gateway shares since 1999, and Legg Mason funds owned about 10 percent of the company when the stock plunged that day to its lowest price in almost two years. Mr. Miller bought more. 
He takes pleasure in buying when others sell. As other fund managers were stockpiling cash late last year to meet shareholder redemptions, he was spending all he could afford. Mr. Miller was selling his winners, like Fannie Mae and United Healthcare, and buying more of the holdings, like Dell, Nextel Communications and Amazon.com, that had fallen the most.
Even as investors were fleeing his fund before it paid out $7.82 a share in taxable gains on Dec. 22, Mr. Miller would not play up to Value Trust's directors. At a November meeting in a Legg Mason boardroom, he told them that shareholders who had owned the fund for less than a year should sell it. By doing so, many could take the losses on their income tax returns and avoid receiving the distribution of taxable gains. Though Mr. Miller took those gains by selling stocks last year, most of the benefits had gone to earlier investors.
Mr. Miller's position endangered his own income, which is tied to the profitability of Legg Mason's fund-management subsidiary, of which he is chief executive. 
In mid-December, as much as $20 million a day was flowing out of Value Trust, and its assets had shrunk by $1.5 billion from their peak of $13.7 billion.
The distributions were unavoidable, given his decision to sell his technology winners before they crashed, Mr. Miller said. "I would rather tell the shareholders, 'We're about even with the market; the market's had a bad year, and we've had a distribution,' " he said, "than I would say to them, 'The market's down 7 percent; we're down 20 percent, but you don't have to pay any tax.' " 
Mr. Miller was confident that his shareholders would return. But that was no sure thing after a year in which he looked less like Midas and more like Pyrrhus.
IT was only in the waning weeks of December that Value Trust started to build a lead on the S.& P. 500 -- not so much because the fund's stocks were rising as because they were not falling as fast as the market. Technology stocks, which accounted for the largest segment of the S.& P. 500 but the second-largest share of Value Trust, after financial stocks, continued to decline.
Mr. Miller received the help he needed from financials like Citigroup and Fannie Mae, and an unexpected lift from Waste Management, which gained almost 60 percent for the year.
But instead of bouncing back, his favorite technology stocks slumped further. AOL fell 9 percent between Christmas and New Year's Day, extending its loss for the year to more than 53 percent.
With three trading days left, Value Trust was down 8.1 percent, compared with a 9.5 percent loss for the S.& P. 500. Mr. Miller, who had taken his family to Santa Fe but was checking in with the office regularly, was not ready to declare victory.
On Thursday, Dec. 28, the next-to-last trading day of the year, Value Trust had such a good day that Mr. Miller finally thought his streak was secure. The fund was about two full percentage points ahead and, he said, "We would have had to have one of the worst days in the fund's history on Friday to not beat the market."
Still, Mr. Miller called in on Friday morning for reassurance, because, as he said, "You never know." By then, Legg Mason's chairman, Raymond A. Mason, and other colleagues were eager to congratulate him on another market-beating performance. In the end, Value Trust lost 7.11 percent, beating the S.& P. 500 by nearly three percentage points. 
When he returned to the office on Tuesday, Mr. Miller found it decorated with celebratory banners. He was treated to a catered lunch of sushi, one of his favorite foods, followed by cake and Champagne. As a tribute, one of his fellow fund managers, David Nelson, wrote a poem that chronicled the race to the wire, entitled " 'Twas the Week Before New Year."
"People have been unduly appreciative," Mr. Miller said, noting that his fund had, after all, recorded a loss. His new year started the way the old one ended: Value Trust fell 2.5 percent on Jan. 2, giving it a slim lead on the S.& P. 500, which dropped 2.8 percent. 

GRAPHIC: Charts: "Man vs. Market"The struggle of William H. Miller III to maintain his fund's winning streak was still undecided on Dec. 8. Graph tracks Legg Mason Value Trust since Jan.(Source: Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 17) THE suspense over whether Legg Mason Value Trust, managed by William H. Miller III in Baltimore, would beat the Standard & Poor's 500 for a 10th consecutive year inspired David Nelson, another Legg Mason fund manager, to verse. Here are excerpts. 'Twas the Week Before New Year 'Twas the week before New Year and all through the firm,The Legg Mason brokers were starting to squirm.They wondered aloud behind every door,If their star Bill Miller could do it once more. Could he beat the 500, yet once again,So the Value Trust's record would go 10 for 10?Just four more days without a mishapAnd boatloads more cash might dump in their lap. But at 100 Light Street, where our hero resides,Those once-mighty tech stocks continued their slide.They'd tried hard to rally, but then in a flash,Some weary growth manager would need to raise cash. The financials were holding, in fact leading the pack,But an underweight in drug stocks was holding Bill back.When what to our wondering eyes should appear,But a snap-back in oils, as we shed a tear . . . With one day remaining, just hours to go,It looked like Bill's lead had grown too big to blow.Still, it sure wasn't easy, comin' out of the gate,As TOY* took a rest -- and Amazon wasn't great.But Bill's lead was too large, the market couldn't compete,And the S.& P. fell to its 10th straight defeat. There wasn't a cheer, there was not a big din,It often takes time for the truth to sink in.To those who are wondering when Bill's streak might end,We say, "Next year, we'd bet he'll do it again!" *Ticker symbol for Toys "R" Us(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%) STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: LEGG MASON INC (58%); AOL INC (53%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (52%)

TICKER: LM (NYSE) (58%); AOL (NYSE) (53%); CSGN (SWX) (52%); CS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%) MCGEEHAN, PATRICK; MILLER, WILLIAM H 3D 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%) MARYLAND, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



144 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
Winning Managers' Strategy: Selling Short

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
DURING the abysmal fourth quarter of 2000, when the average domestic diversified equity fund lost 7.66 percent of its value, the bears had a picnic.
 As a result, many of the best performers for the quarter were managers who bet on a market decline. Atop the winners' list was a handful of index funds that "short" stocks, or sell borrowed shares, hoping to replace them at lower prices -- among them the first-place Rydex Dynamic Venture 100, up 73.02 percent, and second-place Profunds Ultrashort OTC, up 69.08 percent. They use a mix of short sales and futures and options to move in the opposite direction of the Nasdaq 100 index -- and about twice as fast -- so that they gained when the index tumbled. 
 Shorting stocks also drove the returns of the more conventional CGM Focus fund, the No. 1 performer among actively managed funds and No. 3 over all. Other leading funds benefited from rising commodity prices and falling interest rates.
Some of the winners discussed how they navigated the treacherous quarter and how 2001 might unfold.

A Bet on a Tech Tumble
G. Kenneth Heebner, a longtime growth investor, led the three-year-old, $68 million CGM Focus fund to a 44.44 percent return for the quarter. Some 62 percent of the portfolio assets were invested in short positions. 
"It's not my philosophy to find stocks that I think are overvalued and write them down," Mr. Heebner, 60, said from his Boston office. But, he added, he was "motivated to do large short positions by extraordinary circumstances."
"I believe that we have a monumental speculative bubble in technology stocks that I've never seen before in my 30 years of investing," he said.
Typically, he has owned an eclectic portfolio of growth companies and has shorted no more than 10 percent of the value of the fund.
Mr. Heebner declined to identify the biggest winners among his short positions, saying only that they were "companies with negative cash flow that I think will probably go out of business." He predicts that the carnage in technology "will continue for some time." 
Among his long holdings, a big winner was Philip Morris, the tobacco and food giant, up 51.5 percent in the last quarter. "I think the legal risks have peaked," he said, "and the class-action lawsuits that pose threats to the company will pass over time as judgments in favor of smokers are overturned by the federal appeals courts or even the U.S. Supreme Court."
Another winner was Timberland, the outdoor footwear and clothing concern. "The company saw a dramatic growth in sales because they make a fantastic product and because of the cold weather," Mr. Heebner said, adding that Timberland had significant free cash flow and no debt on its balance sheet.

Gains From Lower Rates
Falling interest rates bolstered the financial services sector, helping the $136 million Vontobel U.S. Value fund to a sixth-place finish among domestic diversified stock funds, with a gain of 20.3 percent.
"Financially defensive issues continued to rise in the fourth quarter when earnings disappointments manifested themselves elsewhere in the market, and the prospect of the Federal Reserve easing rates became more apparent," the fund's manager, Edwin D. Walczak, said before the Fed did so on Wednesday.
Mr. Walczak, 47, is a long-term investor who seeks companies with strong franchises that sell for less than what he considers fair value.
One of his biggest performers was the Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae, up 21.8 percent last quarter as a result of falling interest rates. "The volume of fixed-rate mortgages went up because declining interest rates induced people to buy homes or to refinance their mortgages," he said.
Ace Ltd., a Bermuda-based company that provides reinsurance, or wholesale insurance bought by insurers, was another winner, up 8.5 percent. "Reinsurance rates were down last year and there was too much capacity in the system," he said. "All through this year, reinsurance prices have been getting better."
He also made money in CVS Drugstores, the chain based in Woonsocket, R.I., which rose 30 percent last quarter. "There's nothing fundamentally new about their business," Mr. Walczak said. "I think the stock price rose as people moved out of technology and other troubled areas of the market into more defensive, reliable earnings generators."
He is not optimistic, however, about stocks over all. "We never have a view of the market, per se, because we're bottom-up stock pickers," he said. "But I would advise clients to lower their expectations for market returns for the next several years relative to what we've had in the past."

Getting Back to Basics
Another winner was the $45 million Rydex Basic Materials fund, which owns 40 to 50 companies in the sector. It took fifth place over all with a gain of 24.6 percent (although it is not on some lists because none of its share classes, with different expenses, exceed $30 million).
By analyzing sales, assets and earnings, John H. Escario, 31, the fund's manager, looks for the most liquid companies that are closely tied to each part of the industry.
Stocks of basic-materials companies were down roughly 30 percent, on average, through September and then rebounded sharply, he said. "When the high-tech names sold off, valuation suddenly became a priority," he said, "and basic-materials stocks were beaten down fairly badly coming into the fourth quarter."
Paper and forest products companies, which had been undergoing consolidation, proved the hottest, Mr. Escario said. His biggest winner, Willamette Industries, up 68.4 percent, is fighting a takeover bid by Weyerhaeuser. Another big winner, International Paper, up 43.3 percent, acquired the Champion International Corporation earlier this year.
"When prices are strong, you have big investments of capital into capacity. Then, when prices slip, you have oversupply in the market. One way companies sought to mitigate this cycle is by buying" existing capacity, Mr. Escario said.
Acquisitions also drove the performance of Dow Chemical, up 48 percent. The company is acquiring Union Carbide. "They're buying capacity with the thought that they will be able to produce more effectively and at lower costs," he said.
Prospects for the broader industry do not look quite so bright. Many companies have announced shortfalls in their fourth-quarter earnings, Mr. Escario said, and the industry is dependent on a strong economy.

GRAPHIC: Photos: John H. Escario, manager of Rydex Basic Materials. (Marty Katz for The New York Times); Edwin D. Walczak of the Vontobel U.S. Value fund. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); G. Kenneth Heebner, manager of the CGM Focus fund. (Kirsten Elstner for The New York Times) Chart: "Beating the Broader Market"Here is a look at how three of the best performing funds fared against some benchmarks in the fourth quarter of last year. FOURTH-QUARTER RETURNSCGM Focus44.44%All small blend funds0.61% Rydex Basic Materials24.59%All large value funds2.18% Vontobel U.S. Value20.26%All large value funds2.18%(Sources: Bloomberg Finaancial Markets; Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); FUTURES (90%); CASH FLOW (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INDEX FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); BONDS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); SMOKING (64%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (62%); APPEALS (62%); APPEALS COURTS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) STOCKS AND BONDS; SHORT SELLING; MUTUAL FUNDS; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



145 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2785 words

HEADLINE: A Vanishing World 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
YOU can see it in the lime rickey.
 For years that elixir of limes, soda water and cherry and lime syrup defined the Mill Luncheonette as a classic joint in Morningside Heights, along with its famous egg creams and $1.49 breakfast special. Black-clad students from Columbia and Barnard sat on vinyl-covered counter stools and stared hard at the faded Formica decor in literary reverie. Schoolchildren browsed through the comic books and old-timers smoked its plastic-tipped cigars. 
 In 1986, a Korean immigrant, Sung Kun Yun, bought the Mill, and over a decade he added a Korean dish here, a Korean painting there. Slowly, a Korean restaurant materialized near 113th Street and Broadway. 
But one thing remains the same. Lime rickeys are still on the menu.
Morningside Heights, too, has its sweet and sour vestiges, like the neighborhood characters who wander upper Broadway. As always, the neighborhood has a persevering population of middle-class families with children, non-Columbia people living nonacademic lives, and a constant student population that flows through the neighborhood like water over a rocky stream bed.
Nevertheless, as in countless other neighborhoods, the tide of gentrification sweeping north along the Upper West Side has erased much of this neighborhood's past. In its wake have come Starbucks, investment bankers and $750,000 two-bedroom apartments. Big neighborhood issues now involve getting the children into expensive private schools or finding a garage for the Lexus.
But that tide is also lapping at something intangible: shared memories of an intellectual, literary and political world that make this slice of Manhattan highlands something special. After all, this is Morningside Heights, where political firebrands railed against Columbia University and where composers, writers and journalists gathered, drawn by the neighborhood's intellectual setting, architectural charms and rich class mix. Only if you look hard can you still see the spirit of the People's Republic of the Upper West Side, the early-20th-century grandeur of the Acropolis on the Hudson.
Other places gentrify. But few -- Greenwich Village is one -- have a sense of history and richness of character like Morningside Heights. When gentrification goes through a place like Boerum Hill, there may be sadness and economic distress, but there is no great sense that a place with deep intellectual and spiritual roots has been overrun. 
Some of Morningside Heights' heritage is myth; it has been decades since Jack Kerouac haunted the West End. But for those who treasure the neighborhood's unique quality, particularly longtime residents who have breathed its rarefied air for decades, the threat is real. That the recent wave of change has come so swiftly adds to the intensity of people's feelings.
True to Upper West Side tradition, there are many opinions. Most residents are happy to say goodbye to high crime and shabbiness. Others will assert that the neighborhood has become too yuppie, or too Columbia, or too bland, and is still pretty dirty. Or they will say it is as down to earth as ever.
But in the eyes of many, something has been lost in the last five years.
"There was just an energy that is really not here any more," said Barbara Hohol, who is co-president of the 111th Street Block Association and drives a 1989 Toyota Corolla with the license plate GADFLY. 
"There was a street life that doesn't exist anymore, both among the older residents, people who came here in the 40's and 50's, and the recent immigrant groups," added Ms. Hohol, a jewelry maker who has lived in Morningside Heights for 40 years and whose Upper West Side roots go back to her grandmother. "A large segment of the population that is moving in now is doing so because it's a classy apartment in a neighborhood you want to live in." The changes, she said, aggravate "the loss of the sense of the history."

A Wave of Affluence Sparks Resentment
Morningside Heights runs from 110th Street to 122nd Street, with institutions dominating north of 114th Street. Broadway forms the spine, and Riverside Park and Morningside Park form its flanks. More loosely, the neighborhood's sphere of influence extends south to 106th Street and north to 125th Street, where it encompasses some large public housing projects. This larger district embraces expensive co-ops to the west, where residents plant tulips together and escape to weekend homes, and tenements to the east, where the mainly Hispanic population lives on the stoop and shops in bodegas on credit.
The wider area contains 55,000 souls and the city's highest concentration of institutions that tend to mind, body and spirit. They include not only Columbia, but also the Cathedral of St. John the Divine and Riverside Church -- the city's great progressive pulpits -- along with Union Theological and Jewish Theological Seminaries, the Manhattan School of Music, St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, Teachers College and the Bank Street College of Education.
Greater Morningside Heights is unquestionably more affluent than it was just a few years ago. Median family income, adjusted for inflation, rose from $33,000 in 1980 to $49,000 in 1990 to $56,500 in 1997, the most recent year for which census data are available. The proportion of families earning above $150,000 a year more than doubled between 1990 and 1997, from 4.5 percent to 11.6 percent. The proportion of professionals and people working in finance, insurance and real estate edged slightly higher.
"Now we have a lot of investment bankers or traders or e-commerce people who never would have been caught dead above 96th Street," said Klara Madlin, whose business, Klara Madlin Real Estate, has focused on the area since 1984. Typical of the prices, she said, is a five-room apartment on Broadway at 107th Street that sold for $355,000 in 1993 and fetched $740,000 last year.
The new wave of wealth has generated resentment among the Hispanic working-class population east of Broadway. They feel pressure from landlords to move, and they see more upper-middle-class whites moving in. They see trendy bars and restaurants sprouting on Amsterdam Avenue. 
"There are families that have been here 30, 40 years that know this as home but are seeing things shifting all around them," said Luis Roman, president of the local Democratic club, the Broadway Democrats. 
Those families, he said, "find themselves suddenly with a lack of security, a real lack of confidence in the idea that they are going to continue being able to live there."
"We really could be looking at the last generation of Dominicans and Puerto Ricans living in that neighborhood," he said.
Altagracia Hiraldo, 42, is part of that generation. She has lived east of Broadway since arriving from the Dominican Republic in 1979. Her husband, Juan, runs Hiraldo's School Karate-Do, which has become a neighborhood gathering place.
Sitting in the school's office in front of a picture of Mother Teresa at prayer, Mrs. Hiraldo described how the neighborhood's family feeling has been threatened by the newly arriving rich. "This is what we don't want to lose, our unity in our community, our love for each other," she said, as thumps and grunts sounded from a classroom. "This is not a neighborhood that needs rich people. This is a neighborhood that needs people who want to be a part of us."
A lament over the loss of variety is a common refrain, not unusual in New York but heartfelt here because of the area's longstanding pride in its diversity.
"It's a very diverse neighborhood, and perhaps as diverse as any place in New York," said Peter Marcuse, an urban planning professor at Columbia who has lived on 113th Street for a quarter of a century. "The danger is that it gets homogenized slowly; that slowly, all the eating places get to be yuppie eating places. I think that process is happening, and given the continuing prosperity, it is going to happen further."
Another hallmark, political activism, is in decline, and although this too is familiar -- consider Berkeley -- the change here is striking, given the area's history as a hotbed of protest.
"You see people out on the street, but there's less community activities and political meetings," said Curtis Arluck, a Democratic district leader and a 25-year resident. "There just seems to be less participation."

Along With Intangible Changes Come Major Tangible Ones
Mirroring intangible changes are stark physical changes, most of which involve Columbia, the institution responsible for some of the most notable chapters of the neighborhood's history. Columbia, which opened its campus here in 1897, first began buying buildings in 1919, worried that faculty and staff members could not afford good apartments and did not want to live in tenements. In the 1960's alone the university bought more than 100 buildings.
Opponents held Columbia responsible for the closing of single room occupancy hotels and the eviction of thousands of poor black and Hispanic residents. Anger rose to a flash point in 1968, when plans to build a gym in Morningside Park provoked protests and led to a monthlong student strike that paralyzed the university.
Times have changed. The university opened three large buildings in the last two years to relative peace: a 14-story residence hall and a glass-walled student center, both on Broadway, and a business and law building on Amsterdam Avenue.
Two current projects have some people up in arms. In October, Columbia broke ground for a new building for the school of social work on 113th Street west of Broadway, a 10-story structure that some residents say will block light and air and loom over surrounding structures. The university recently announced plans for a 12-story faculty residence-plus-elementary school at 110th Street and Broadway, with construction to begin in a year.
In November, Columbia halted work on the social work building. The university is now considering moving the project to an empty lot about 10 blocks north.
Meanwhile, a spate of relatively pricey restaurants -- Le Monde, a brasserie, and Tomo, a sushi bar -- has emerged along Broadway in the last few years, many on Columbia-owned sites. Columbia says the neighborhood demands such places. Critics say they are image polishers for students' parents.
"If Columbia is permitted, along with other institutions in the neighborhood, to build whatever they want to build, the neighborhood will be transformed," said Daniel O'Donnell, chairman of the land use committee of Community Board 9. "It will look like Third Avenue in the 60's. They are trying to make it more like a mall, more palatable to people who come from outside the city."
In recent years the university has tried to involve residents more in planning and has sought to be attentive to their concerns.
"I think the important thing is for us to always be open to hear about people's concerns and aspirations for their neighborhood and for us to be as responsive as we can," said Emily Lloyd, Columbia's executive vice president for administration. It is to the university's benefit, she said, that the area remain a dynamic neighborhood. 
"That's what people like about it," she said. "It's not Hanover, New Hampshire."
Former opponents give Columbia credit. 
"Columbia has become more and more interested in working with what I refer to as the lifers," said Ms. Hohol, the 111th Street activist. "Because we're the memory. And there aren't a whole lot of us left."
But not everyone grants Columbia the purest of motives in today's more prosperous, less contentious times. Columbia's leaders are taking a gentler tack because they can, said Robert Roistacher, head of the Morningside Heights Residents Association, who praises the current administration. The administrators are in an easier situation "because they don't have to do the ugly, dirty work," Mr. Roistacher said.
"They can sit back and have decent reputations," he said.
The need for new buildings is in part a matter of numbers. Columbia's student population has swelled from 15,000 in 1975 to 20,000 today, plus more than 5,000 employees, as well as 4,900 students at Teachers College, and 2,300 at Barnard.
It wasn't Columbia, though, that provoked the most recent anger. That distinction goes to the Manhattan School of Music for breaking ground in April for a 21-story residence at 123rd Street and Broadway with little notice to the community.
"It was the most arrogant, disgusting lack of concern for their neighbors I have ever witnessed," said Mr. O'Donnell of Community Board 9. "You want to make Donald Trump look like a nice guy? Behave like the Manhattan School of Music."
David Rahm, the school's chairman, said that after planning and discussing a building on the site several times without success, "We wanted to wait until we had everything, the financing plans and permits in place, before we officially announced construction of the building." The size of the building was also reduced, to 19 stories.

The Scenery Changes, But the Spirit Survives
What about the intangibles of Morningside Heights? A case can be made that, as with the lime rickeys at the Mill, plenty of the old spirit survives.
Though the Squirrel Lady died in June, and is mourned by the creatures of 111th Street that she fed, distinctive characters still wander the neighborhood streets. They include the peacocks that strut around the grounds of St. John the Divine, the used-book sellers on Broadway, and Bobby, more formally known as Robert Fibel, 57, who wears a satin baseball jacket, runs errands for shopkeepers and changes the calendar pages at the local Chase branch.
The Saturday touch football game started in the late 60's by a group of Columbia graduate students continues in Riverside Park, many generations and rickety knees later. A walk along Broadway can still mean an endless series of street corner conversations. 
The Moon Palace, a longtime Chinese restaurant that gave Paul Auster the title for his 1989 novel, closed in 1991. But neighborhood institutions like Mondel's chocolate store, the Symposium Greek restaurant, the V & T pizzeria and the Hungarian pastry shop still flourish. So does Tom's Restaurant, whose facade became embedded in the cultural landscape thanks to a Suzanne Vega song and, more widely, as the diner frequented by the "Seinfeld" characters.
New institutions, like the Mill in its latest incarnation, have begun their own traditions. Mr. Yun has already built up a loyal clientele and has watched local children grow up.
Mr. Yun, 60, has worked many a job in his life, but, commuting to the city from Nyack, in Rockland County, he is well settled in his restaurant, surrounded by Korean wall hangings, masks and calligraphy. "I enjoy life here," he said. "It is now part of my home here, like part of my hometown."
Thanks to the neighborhood's institutional nature, remoteness from Midtown, and character as a place where people both live and work, its past is unlikely to be entirely erased. The Landmarks Preservation Commission says it is considering creating a historic district within Morningside Heights. 
Mall-type stores and large chains are not seen as imminent threats. And the university's current development policy, as set out in a 1998 planning document, is aimed at "enhancing the neighborhood by reinforcing its essential characteristics and architectural setting." 
Maybe what is disappearing fastest from Morningside Heights is collective memory.
How many people remember the bitter struggle over the Columbia gym, or the anti-Vietnam War battles with police, or the sit-ins against evictions from Columbia-owned buildings in the 1960's?
Of an earlier era, how many remember that the West End was the haunt of Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg and William Burroughs? Who knows Morningside Heights as the land of Lionel Trilling and the Van Dorens, Mark and Carl of literary fame and Charles of quiz-show infamy? Who recalls it as the prowling ground of Whittaker Chambers on spy duty?
Who remembers the poor who made the place truly a crossroads of class, now that only 2 of the 33 S.R.O. hotels that existed in 1961 remain? 
Recent history seems to be joining the remote past in the well of oblivion. Few people probably know of Morningside Heights' earliest structures, the Bloomingdale Insane Asylum, founded in 1821, and the Leake & Watts Orphan Asylum, built in 1843. A rectangular chunk of the orphanage, with paint peeling off its classical columns, still squats next to St. John the Divine. Though renovated and put to use by the cathedral, it stands where the long-envisioned south transept is destined to arise. Cathedral officials say that could be many years away.
Who knows if you will still be able to find a lime rickey then.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The roofs of Morningside Heights peek over trees in Morningside Park, left. Below, strollers pass Le Monde, a newish restaurant on Broadway and 112th Street. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. 1); FACES OF THE HEIGHTS: -- Sung Kun Yun and his wife, Chun Hee, top, serve Korean food -- and lime rickeys -- at the Mill Luncheonette. Barbara Hohol, middle, a lifelong resident, mourns "the loss of the sense of history" that gentrification has wrought. For Altagracia Hiraldo, here in her husband's karate school, the new prosperity threatens the sense of community. "This is not a neighborhood that needs rich people," she said. (pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LITERATURE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); WRITERS (76%); FAMILY (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (65%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



146 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Minds Wide Shut, or How They Learned to Love a Cliche 

BYLINE:  By TOM KUNTZ 

 BODY:
IT'S only a week into 2001 and headline writers have already proven themselves a pretty witty and original bunch. Yeah, at least as witty and original as Hal the computer in "2001: A Space Odyssey" -- after he had his plug pulled. Below is evidence. 
"2001: A Snow Odyssey"
 -- San Antonio Express-News, Jan. 2 
 "2001: A Sun-Filled Vacation Odyssey"
-- Ebony, January
"2001: A Public-Space Oddity"
-- The New York Times, Jan. 2
"2001: e-topia or cyberspace oddity?"
-- Marketing Week, Dec. 14, 2000
"2001: Our Odyssey Continues: From Sydney to Chicago, World Celebrates Free of Y2K Fears"
-- Chicago Tribune, Jan. 1
"2001: A Tax Oddity; Those With 1999 Gains May Owe IRS Sooner Than Expected"
-- The Washington Post, Jan. 9, 2000
"2001 -- A desk odyssey; A pro shows how to tidy up your workspace for next year"
-- Anchorage Daily News, Jan. 1
"2001: An Earth Odyssey"
-- The Record (Bergen County), Jan. 1
"2001: A Gore Odyssey"
-- Economist, May 22, 1999
"2001: A Trash Odyssey"
-- American City and Country, May 1999
"2001. A Direct Marketing Odyssey"
-- Direct Marketing, July 1, 1999
"2001: A Freight Odyssey"
-- Fleet Owner, November 1999
"2001: An Insurance Odyssey"
-- Insurance Networking, April 1999
"2001: A Video-on-Demand Odyssey"
-- Multichannel News, Jan. 1
"Not Quite 2001: A Crawl-Space Odyssey"
-- Seattle Post-Intelligencer, Jan. 5, 1999
"2001 Date Odyssey" -- Time, Jan. 8
"2001: A Space Problem"
-- Building Design, Nov. 26, 1999
"2001: A Grace Oddity -- Original Sin Is Back; Our Technological Skills Grow Constantly, and Yet We Fail to Make Equivalent Moral Progress -- Which Is Why Even Secularists Are Wondering Again About Evil"
-- The Independent (London), Dec. 30, 2000
"2001 Promises to Be Another Strange Odyssey
in Sports"
-- The Washington Times, Jan. 1
"Sports Betting: 2001: An Odd-ysey"
The Mirror (London), Dec. 28, 2000
"2001, a housing oddity?"
-- The Herald (Glasgow), Jan. 3
"2001: A Crossword Odyssey"
-- Slate (online magazine), Jan. 2
"2001: A Tipping Odyssey"
-- Birmingham Post (England), Jan. 4
"2001 -- It's a City Space Odyssey; Planners Ready for Changed Lifestyles"
-- Aberdeen Evening Express, April 17, 1999
"A Different 2001 Space Odyssey"
-- Houston Chronicle, June 23, 1999
"2001: A Space Oddity? Mysterious Monolith Appears in Seattle Park"
-- Seattle Post-Intelligencer, Jan. 3
"2001: A Space Odyssey With an All-Female Crew"
-- The Toronto Star, March 14, 1999
"2001 a Beef Oddity as EC Says France Is Wrong"
-- Birmingham Post, Oct. 14, 1999
"2001: An Odyssey to Rule S-E Asia"
-- New Straits Times (Malaysia), Feb. 12, 1999
"2001: A Big East Odyssey? Decision on Virginia Tech Could Come Next Week"
-- Richmond Times Dispatch, Aug. 13, 1999
"2001 Might Be a Prep Oddity"
-- The Salt Lake Tribune, March 26, 1999
"2001: A Space-Filling Oddity"
-- The Ottawa Citizen, Dec. 28, 2000
"2001: A Phrase Odyssey"
-- Evening Herald (Plymouth, England), Jan. 3

GRAPHIC: Photo: "2001: A Space Odyssey," the 1968 Stanley Kubrick film that launched a thousand cliched headlines. (MGM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DIRECT MARKETING (89%); WRITERS (78%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (65%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (50%) NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); MOTION PICTURES 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: KUNTZ, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (51%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (52%)

TITLE: TWO THOUSAND ONE: A SPACE ODYSSEY (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



147 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; 
After a Dreadful Year, Signs Of a Brighter Future Overseas

BYLINE:  By VIVIAN MARINO 

 BODY:
FUND investors who tried to escape Wall Street's volatility last year, especially during the final quarter, found little solace by venturing overseas. 
 But some managers of international funds see opportunities ahead, particularly in Europe. Many stocks are attractively priced, and more companies are improving shareholder values through mergers and acquisitions, new management and stock buybacks. Some managers also find potential value in parts of Latin America and Asia. 
 "World stocks, outside technology and telecommunications, over the next 12 to 36 months should do extremely well," said David G. Herro, portfolio manager for the Oakmark International fund, which invests in Europe, Latin America and the Pacific Rim. "I say this with a sense of caution, though, instead of a sense of euphoria."
Fund investors put an estimated $50 billion more into international equity funds than they took out in 2000, which brought assets to around $532 billion last year, compared with $584 billion in 1999, according to Strategic Insight, a fund research firm in New York.
Yet there were few rewards for those investors. Last year was the sixth in the last seven years that the average international fund failed to keep pace with its domestic counterpart. The international funds lost 6.56 percent in the fourth quarter, on average, and 15.02 percent for the year, while United States equity funds fell 8.47 percent for the quarter and 1.26 percent for the year, according to Morningstar Inc. The biggest laggards were funds invested in the emerging markets and Japan, where economies remain in the doldrums. 
There was no carry-over from 1999, when international funds rose around 50 percent, on average, riding high on the good fortunes of Internet and telecommunications stocks. Instead, many foreign funds that invested heavily in technology plunged last year, as deeply as their American counterparts. 
THE funds' problems were compounded by rising oil prices and adverse currency movements, particularly the slide of the euro, which, along with a decline in the Japanese yen, further eroded dollar-denominated returns. The euro lost 6 percent of its value against the dollar last year, although many experts suggest that the currency has hit a bottom and will slowly start to move up this year. "The euro clearly hurt," said Kunal Kapoor, a senior analyst at Morningstar, "but technology and telecommunications was the big story."
For the most part, funds with little exposure to technology fared best. Many, like Mr. Herro's $753 million Oakmark International fund, or the $6.15 billion Oppenheimer Global fund and the $128 million Atlas Global Growth, beat or offset the downward trend by focusing more on undervalued, often old-economy, stocks. Oakmark International had a 7.4 percent return for the fourth quarter and 12.5 percent for the full year. Oppenheimer Global lost 3.5 percent for the quarter but gained 4.1 percent for the year, while Atlas had a 4 percent quarterly loss and a 3.2 percent annual gain.
Mr. Herro, 40, director of international equities at Harris Associates of Chicago, an adviser to the Oakmark Family of Funds, said he had steadily pulled out of technology and telecommunications as they became increasingly overvalued. "We looked a little silly" at first, he recalled. "But we viewed what was happening overseas in the last 12 to 18 months as a speculative bubble. What we did was lighten up on those things that have done very well for us."
Only about 1 percent of the fund's portfolio remains in technology. A majority is now in industrial cyclicals, financial services and consumer durables, mostly in Europe. Of course, even those sectors could falter if Europe's economy slows significantly and the euro fails to rebound.
Some of the biggest contributors to Oakmark's performance, Mr. Herro said, were Diageo, the giant British food and spirits company; Somerfield, a British grocery store chain; Hunter Douglas, the Dutch manufacturer of window coverings; and Metso, the Finnish paper-making equipment company. Yet these companies remain undervalued despite good earnings. he added.
Mr. Herro says an increasing number of European companies are making an effort to improve shareholder returns, often under the watchful eye of American shareholders and pension fund systems that are being privatized in Europe. Companies are initiating mergers, spinning off units or buying back more of their shares, he said. "They recognize that their stock price is really a source of capital -- they have to have a healthy share price if they want to use that as capital to expand," he said.
Among those attracted to Europe by the new dedication to shareholders is William Wilby, 56, the fund manager of Oppenheimer Global and Atlas Global Growth. He favors companies like the German automaker Porsche. "It is a classic case of a company that is restructuring," he said. "It had new management five or six years ago and revamped its product lineup," which will include its first sport utility vehicle in 2002. He also likes Reckitt Benckiser, a British household cleaning products company, which, he said, is "not vulnerable to a technical downturn," and one of his American holdings, Cadence Design Systems of San Jose, Calif., a maker of software used to design computer chips. 
Mr. Wilby also sees long-term opportunities in Latin America, where there has been a steady move toward privatization of state-owned companies. Among his favorites is Televisa of Mexico, which has a huge library of Spanish-language films. Like many other managers of international funds, he remains wary about Japan. But he sees investment opportunities in select companies, including Eisai, the health care concern that has developed a drug for Alzheimer's disease, and Kyocera, a manufacturer of electronic equipment.
Oppenheimer Global still has a sizable exposure to technology -- roughly 19 percent, compared with 18 percent in health care, 16 percent in financial services and 13 percent in consumer cyclicals, the majority of them in Europe. But the fund has been moving out of technology stocks. "The market was exceptionally frothy," he said. "It's going to be several years before they come back."
Not all international funds with high exposure to technology did poorly last year, however. One standout was the $23 million Amidex35 fund, which invests in stocks of the 35 largest Israeli companies, about two-thirds of them in technology or related businesses. Most of these stocks trade on the Nasdaq. 
The fund lost 16.95 percent for the fourth quarter but it gained 19.15 percent for the year. Its largest holdings include Check Point, a leader in Internet security; Amdocs, which provides billing software to big telephone companies; and Mercury Interactive, which helps improve Web site performance.
Boaz Rahav, 31, the Amidex35 manager, said Israeli technology companies had outperformed their counterparts around the world because many offer innovative products and services not readily available elsewhere. "Not all superior solutions in technology are in the United States," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: David G. Herro, portfolio manager of Oakmark International, expects world stocks to do "extremely well" in the next 12 to 36 months. He has steadily pulled out of technology and telecom shares. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times); Boaz Rahav, 31, manages the Amidex35, which invests in 35 Israeli companies. He says those businesses outperform competitors because many offer innovative products not available elsewhere. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); William Wilby, manager of Oppenheimer Global and Atlas Global Growth, favors companies like the German automaker Porsche, which, he said, has put itself through a successful reorganization in recent years. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times) Chart: "Nowhere to Turn"Investors seeking to escape the uncertainties of the domestic markets last year found that they might as well have stayed home. Chart tracks internation stock funds and domestic stock funds since 1999.(Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); BONDS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); MERGERS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (62%); JAPANESE YEN (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (82%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%)

PERSON: MARINO, VIVIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



148 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: MONEY & MEDICINE; 
Learning to Manage Managed Care

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Jennifer Steinhauer covers health care for The Times. Her column on the economics of health care appears the first Sunday of each month. E-mail: jestei@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
 WHEN is a disease rare enough to require a medical specialist outside an insurance network? The answer is less obvious than one might believe. While tonsillitis in even the smallest town could be treated by the local doctor, Ebola virus in Manhattan would clearly require some extremely specialized advice. 
 But Joseph Burke's case was not so clear, and the morass he entered underscores how the worst of illnesses can create the most complicated insurance problems. Central to his case is a clinical difference in opinion (was his cancer truly rare?) and a technical issue (was the out-of-network care he believes he needed initiated in the proper manner?). 
Mr. Burke was 26 and working for Viacom in 1998 when he noticed one day that his left breast was sore and swollen. His primary care doctor surmised that he had an ingrown hair and sent him on his way.
A month later, no improvement. A month after that, he began having horrible headaches. He could not get into the subway in the morning without being soaked with sweat. He said a call to his doctor yielded this diagnosis: the flu. "At this point I felt as if I were a hypochondriac," he said recently. "I decided to just stop calling the doctor." 
He began to research his symptoms, and one potential cause for them left him shaken. He was at the right age for testicular cancer, and other members of his family had suffered from cancer. Subsequent tests and CAT scans confirmed the worst. Six months after the original breast pain, the cancer had spread well beyond his testicles. His doctor, he said, referred him immediately to Dr. George Basl, a specialist in testicular cancer at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York.
Mr. Burke felt lucky in one respect: As a member of the Freedom Plan of Oxford Health Plans, he understood that he could go to an out-of-network doctor, as long as he paid his $3,000 deductible. But then came the technical rub. Under that plan, a patient has two choices when he goes out of network. Do it without a referral, and accept that the insurance company will only pay 90 percent of what it considers reasonable and customary payment for the services rendered. Or get precertification to go out of network from the in-network doctor -- given ostensibly because the patient needs specialized care -- and receive full coverage.
MR. BURKE said he had numerous conversations with Oxford representatives to clear full payment for his coverage. Oxford said clearance was never given. Further, no one can agree on whether Mr. Burke was even officially referred to Dr. Basl by his primary care doctor. A spokeswoman for the insurance company, Maria Gordon Shydlo, said Oxford had no record of the referral, although Mr. Burke was able to provide Dr. Basl's letter to the referring physician. Dr. Basl said he had no idea what arrangements were made regarding the referral.
But then again, Ms. Shydlo said, the referral would have been moot without the precertification, a process dropped by a competing company, the UnitedHealth Group, in 1999, because it so enraged doctors and patients and, as it turned out, saved the company no money.
Mr. Burke, who now works for Monster.com and is no longer covered by Oxford, appealed to Oxford on the basis that he had a rare disease that only a few hospitals specialized in treating, and that he was misdiagnosed by an in-network provider for six months. That appeal was denied. Ms. Shydlo said: "Oxford's network has some of the finest oncologists at the finest hospitals."
So how rare is testicular cancer? The disease was diagnosed in roughly 6,900 American men in 2000, according to the American Cancer Society, compared with 180,400 diagnoses of prostate cancer and 89,500 of all lung malignancies. In the United States, cancer of some form was expected to be diagnosed in 619,700 men during 2000.
While Dr. Basl refused to discuss Mr. Burke's case specifically, he contributed to an article in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute in 1999 that concluded that the treatment of advanced testicular cancer is generally more successful in centers that do a high volume of cases. (Memorial Sloan-Kettering treated 2,023 such cases from 1995 to 2000.) 
Ross Sadler, the assistant director for managed care at a large New York hospital that he insisted not be identified, said that whether or not Mr. Burke had gone through the precertification process, the issue should have been brushed aside, given the seriousness of his disease and his diagnosis delay, which had dire consequences. 
As for Sloan-Kettering, it would like its money -- $16,429.23 for all services -- from anyone, and has sued Mr. Burke, who is in remission, to get it. Mr. Sadler advises consumers to ask their doctors for proof that they have been precertified once a referral is made, and to do what benefits managers do all day: carefully study the fine print. 
"It comes down to the basics, being aware of your plan," he said. "Once you understand it, don't give up. Apply the 10-call rule. Call 10 times in one day; you will get your message across."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christophe Vorlet) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CANCER (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TESTICULAR CANCER (89%); MEN'S HEALTH (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (78%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (78%); VIRUSES (73%); TROPICAL DISEASES (73%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (71%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (67%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE 

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: OXFORD HEALTH PLANS 

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%)

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



149 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: RIDGEWOOD -- CITYPEOPLE; 
Decorum and a Touch of Runyon Mark a Career at the Wheel of a Hearse

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOEPPEL

 BODY:
When Ray Brenciforte came home from the Korean War, the city's economy was booming and so were its mostly mom-and-pop funeral homes. A limousine to a local cemetery back then might cost as little as $33.
 After a stint delivering air-conditioners, Mr. Brenciforte got a union job driving a hearse for a Brooklyn livery service. While being a funeral chauffeur might not be "much of a station in life," he said, it gave him steady work and a stable way to support his family. So he has stayed at it, for the last 40 years. 
 Mr. Brenciforte has worked for the last 25 years for Castarelli's, a livery service in Ridgewood, Queens. To him, the world of chauffeurs, funeral directors and cemetery workers is not nearly as bleak as it seems, peopled by Runyonesque characters with colorful nicknames and outsize personalities.
There was Jimmy Coca-Cola, a driver with an unusual penchant for the soft drink. There was Tonto and Tammany and Joe Black, nicknamed not for his funereal disposition but for his dark olive skin.
If the nostalgic New York that Mr. Brenciforte remembers ever really existed, he acknowledged that it is long gone now. As he sees it, dedicated and empathetic union drivers have been replaced by per diem hacks, and the funeral director with the personal touch has been superseded by corporate suits. Motorists, who once treated a funeral procession as something sacred, now show little regard.
"They just don't respect it," said Mr. Brenciforte, who lives in Midwood, Brooklyn. "It's a real problem. Sometimes people will make obscene gestures at me. They'll cut right in and block a funeral, they couldn't care less. Traffic is worse than ever."
Leading a procession of a dozen or more cars filled with grieving family members and guiding them safely to the cemetery can be tricky on the city's labyrinthine roads, he said.
"I try to put them at ease," Mr. Brenciforte said of drivers in the procession. "I tell them to stay alert and to take it nice and slow." 
He added, "A lot of people don't really understand the nature of the funeral business. It's about empathy, about putting yourself in the family's place." 
Mr. Brenciforte is a published poet whose taste runs from Whitman to Wilde. He has written a poem about the funeral business that he refers to as his "dirge," a dark tribute to the job to which he has devoted his life.
But Mr. Brenciforte has recently cut back to driving two funerals a week. He no longer spends much time at the "barn" (the livery term for a garage) and has seen many colleagues retire or die.
As he winds down, his appreciation for his job grows.
"I realized I'm performing a necessary service," he said. "When people tell me you did a nice job, that I was dignified and polite, that gives me a great feeling." DAVID KOEPPEL

GRAPHIC: Photos: To Ray Brenciforte, the world of funeral chauffeurs is not nearly as bleak as it seems. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CEMETERIES (89%); FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (89%); FUNERAL INDUSTRY (78%); FAMILY (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); SOFT DRINKS (73%); WRITERS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (56%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



150 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST SIDE; 
A Troubled Plaza Shows Up Close to Home

BYLINE:  By ANDREW FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Public plazas have been in the news. 
 Last fall, a major report was issued pinpointing plazas around the city that legally should be open to the public because they were built in exchange for allowing developers to build larger and taller buildings. 
 Soon after, 70 volunteers from the Municipal Art Society and community boards fanned out around the city to survey the accessibility, quality and amenities of those plazas. 
One who took to the streets was Holly Leicht, the society's director of design planning and advocacy. She was dismayed to find a problem close to home, the plaza at the Revere, a condominium at 54th Street near First Avenue.
"It was like a concrete wasteland with a couple of pathetic trees," said Ms. Leicht, who lives on the Upper East Side. Construction debris had taken over the plaza, she said, a gate stood in front of the entrance and the site was locked at night. 
The 6,500-square-foot site also includes a section on First Avenue where a Starbucks cafe has placed tables and chairs. In the report on New York's public plazas, which was written by the society, the City Planning Department and Jerold S. Kayden of Harvard University, the plaza was rated "marginal," the worst of five categories. Legally, the study says, the plaza should be open 24 hours a day and should never used for storage or what Mr. Kayden calls "cafe creep."
Jonathan West, board president of the Revere, said equipment had been stored on the site while the lobby and stairs were being renovated, a project set to be completed in the spring. Anyone can sit in front of Starbucks, he added, whether a patron or not. He said the gate was designed to keep homeless people out of the space. 
Mr. Kayden said extended renovations and fears about the homeless are often used as excuses when owners encroach on public spaces. 
Since the study was published, the city has stepped up enforcement. The Law Department has filed suits against owners of three offending buildings, the Buildings Department has 30 enforcement actions pending and the City Planning Department has written to 16 owners whose buildings are in violation. ANDREW FRIEDMAN

GRAPHIC: Photo: Construction equipment has marred the ambience. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); CITIES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); HOMELESSNESS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



151 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1420 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/Tweaking the W.T.O.; 
The Long and Winding Cyberhoax: Political Theater on the Web

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
IT'S well known that some regions of cyberspace -- Internet chat rooms, for instance -- are rife with poseurs and imaginary characters. But the World Wide Web is also a breeding ground for more elaborate deceptions, as demonstrated by the following cautionary tale about gall and gullibility in the information age. 
 The story begins with www.gatt.org, which looks at first glance like an official Web site of the World Trade Organization, the five-year-old Switzerland-based successor to the organization that oversaw the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Unfortunately for the organizers of an October legal seminar on international trade in Salzburg, Austria, a glance was all they gave it before clicking on the "contact" link and sending a speaking invitation to Mike Moore, the W.T.O.'s director-general. 
 Big mistake: it turns out the site is run by the Yes Men, a loose-knit group of anti-free-trade activists that views hoaxes as a legitimate weapon of protest. 
Excerpts of what transpired follow, culled from e-mail correspondence and faxes posted at www.theyesmen.org/wto. BARNABY J. FEDER
It didn't take long for the Yes Men to accept the invitation in Mr. Moore's name, with a caveat:
Thank you for your kind invitation. 
I may not be able to attend personally, but I would like very much to send a substitute. Would this be possible? Please let me know and I will begin the search process. 
Thank you,
Mike Moore
The director of the seminar's sponsor was happy to oblige:
Dear Mr. Moore: 
Michael Devine advises me that you wish to send a staff member to speak at the 26-29 October conference in Salzburg. 
If you will confirm name of the individual and contact information, I will have further information sent. 
Regards, Dennis Campbell
Center for International Legal Studies
At this point, Charles Cushen, a computer programmer in Los Angeles who had been masquerading as Mr. Moore and "Alice Foley," Mr. Moore's secretary, created Andreas Bichlbauer (choosing the name at random from a Vienna phone book), and made travel arrangements for Dr. Bichlbauer and two "security agents," including a cameraman. Dr. Bichlbauer raised eyebrows with his speech, titled "Trade Regulation Relaxation and Concepts of Incremental Improvement: Governing Perspectives from 1970 to the Present":
Dear Ms. Foley: 
We were somewhat puzzled by Dr. Bichlbauer's participation at the conference. . . .
The essential thrust of his speech appeared to be that Italians have a lesser work ethic than the Dutch, that Americans would be better off auctioning their votes in the presidential election to the highest bidder and that the primary role of the W.T.O. was to create a one-world culture. 
In the late afternoon, a cameraman (I think it was the same one who filmed Dr. Bichlbauer's speech) appeared at the hotel and sought to interview our delegates. He said Dr. Bichlbauer had been hit in the face with a pie outside the hotel and wanted to know if the delegates thought Dr. Bichlbauer's speech had provoked the attack. . . .
Several of our delegates (including work-ethic impaired Italians) approached me to express concern about the speech, the alleged pie incident and the cameraman who sought interviews in the late afternoon. 
Your clarification will be appreciated. 
Regards, Dennis Campbell
Alice Foley's immediate reply:
Indeed you are correct, Dr. Bichlbauer was in fact "pied" after speaking at the Salzburg C.I.L.S. conference. At present we are not completely certain of all the details, but it appears that the cameraman you mention had something to do with it. . . . This cameraman . . . seems to have essentially been an agent provocateur who planned the pieing from the start. . . .
We hope you understand that this sort of incident reflects primarily the unfortunate circumstances under which the W.T.O. must accomplish its work, and that our security can never be entirely adequate to the situations we face.
After another message from Mr. Campbell in which he reiterated that some delegates found Dr. Bichlbauer's remarks offensive or flippant, the doctor offered his side of the story:
I was disappointed to hear from Alice Foley that some people in the audience on Saturday disliked my lecture. . . . Those who were upset by the lecture were clearly unreceptive to any message departing from the simple W.T.O. "party line" as it is presented in larger arenas. At this conference we hoped to examine this "party line" through repackaging in a clearer and more carefully delineated fashion, for the sake of more lucid examination and a greater awareness of "issue extremes" for use in more politic descriptions -- those intended for the consumption of larger blocs of the consuming public. . . . 
Two days later, hoping to elicit further response, Mr. Cushen slipped again into his Mr. Moore persona:
Dear Professor Campbell: 
I was dismayed to learn of your unfortunate experience with our representative, Andreas Bichlbauer. . . . I will recommend that Dr. Bichlbauer be required to attend a refresher course on public speaking, communication and policy before any further appearances on behalf of the W.T.O. . . . 
However, having examined the presentation exhaustively, I am forced to conclude that never in any particulars do Dr. Bichlbauer's statements . . . depart from the spirit -- if not the precise letter -- of our intentions and aims. That is, while we of course do not advocate vote-selling or siesta-banning at the present time, it is quite true that efficiency and the streamlining of culture and politics in the interests of economic liberalization is at the core of the W.T.O.'s programme, and such practices as described by Dr. Bichlbauer are useful in clarifying the long-range interests of global development as promoted by our organization and others.
On Nov. 1, Alice Foley had more bad news for Professor Campbell:
The situation has, I regret to say, somewhat deteriorated from an already unpleasant state of affairs: Dr. Bichlbauer has contracted a rather serious infection from the pie, which forensic analysis shows contained an active bacillus agent. It is not certain whether foul play was involved. . . . I know that this question will sound harsh, but could any of the lawyers present have been angry enough at Dr. Bichlbauer's lecture to do this? . . .
On Nov. 6, using addresses collected in Salzburg, Alice Foley e-mailed six conference participants with the message that Dr. Bichlbauer was near death from his infection and concluding:
Please, please let us know if anything at the conference struck you as strange, or if you can imagine anyone performing this masterpiece of cowardice, that so threatens to delete Dr. Bichlbauer from our midst in the prime of his usefulness.
A similar e-mail message sent two weeks later to 77 delegates elicited a range of responses, most indicating that the insult to Italian work habits had made the biggest impression. Dr. Bichlbauer's death was announced via e-mail on Nov. 27. The legal center's response on Nov. 29 provided the first clear sign that it finally recognized the hoax and asked the Yes Men to "let it rest." Alice Foley issued the following pseudo-clarification to the delegates:
Those who found Dr. Bichlbauer's talk "peculiar," "puzzling" and so on were alert to a situation that has only now become clear to our overcentralized eyes: Dr. Bichlbauer was an impostor! . . . He, his "security guard" and his "cameraman" . . . belong, it turns out, to an anti-trade cabal called "The Yes Men," whose interests run exactly counter to our own, and who will stoop to any level whatsoever to make points. (The point they were attempting to make with this trickery, according to the handwritten letter which we received by this morning's post, had something to do with "corporate power" and "democracy," though the syntax and handwriting of the letter are, truth be told, too execrable to make much of. . . . It is of course extremely embarrassing to us that we can have been conned, like common dowagers, in this way. . . .
Postscript: A W.T.O. spokesman said last week that while his organization deplored the Yes Men's deceptive Web site and the hoax, it respects the nature of the Internet as a forum for free expression. Mr. Cushen said "Mr. Moore" had recently received an invitation to a textile conference in Finland and that his group was hoping to scrape together the money needed to send a successor to Dr. Bichlbauer. "We think the ethical thing to do is to represent the W.T.O. more honestly than they represent themselves," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Stuart Goldenberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); CHAT ROOMS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WEB SITES (71%); ETHICS (69%); ELECTIONS (61%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (61%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (61%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; HOAXES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (57%) YES MEN (ORGN); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



152 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS for CHARLES S. GIAMBUSSO; 
Delta's Labor Troubles: View From the Cockpit

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
THE storms that jolted much of the country over the New Year's holiday hit Delta Air Lines particularly hard. Because many of its pilots have declined to fly voluntary overtime, Delta said it was forced to cancel hundreds of flights, stranding thousands of passengers. 
 The airline announced last week that it would cut its schedule by nearly 3 percent to compensate for the shortage of pilots. This week, Delta plans to appeal a federal judge's refusal to issue an injunction against the Air Line Pilots Association in what Delta calls an illegal job action. 
 Charles S. Giambusso, 50, is head of the Delta chapter of the Air Line Pilots Association, which represents nearly 10,000 pilots. He is based in Salt Lake City, where he is a Boeing 727 captain. He spoke last week on the day the airline and the union resumed their contract negotiations.
 LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN

Q. Delta contends that the union and pilots are orchestrating a slowdown to pressure it in bargaining. Is that true?

A. It is absolutely not true that the union is orchestrating any kind of slowdown or job action. In fact, we have done just the opposite. We have been trying to encourage the pilots to work extra overtime and help the company out during a time when they are short of pilots. The pilot group itself has spontaneously reacted in a way that has been negative. And it has been exacerbated by the company's decision to use litigation to try to force the pilots to do something that they are not legally obligated to do.

Q. Why are pilots at Delta so angry?

A. I think their patience reached an end in late October. We had been negotiating since September of '99 and our amendable date the day the terms of the previous contract ended was May 2. At the end of October, the company put their counterproposal on pay on the table. Many pilots were quite disappointed.

Q. Isn't it irresponsible and even unethical for pilots to inconvenience passengers as part of a dispute with management?

A. The pilots aren't looking at it that way. They are very intelligent, highly educated guys, and they understand that it is important that our customers are well served. Over the summer, pilots flew a record amount of overtime. I think that when the holidays came around, many pilots decided that they could not maintain that pace and wanted to spend some time with their families. A few pilots might be trying to stir the pot, but there was no concerted effort to do anything to harm customers, or really even harm the company.

Q. Where are the gaps between the two sides?

A. We are still apart on pay. The company's proposal does not create an industry-leading pay proposal for us. We are apart on retirement and we're significantly apart on scope, or job-protection issues. But we are still at the bargaining table. I have a high expectation that there will be progress at the table.

Q. With the economy weakening now, aren't the expectations of labor groups at Delta and other airlines exceptionally high? Aren't you in danger of crippling the airline?

A. We have gone for over four years during the boom times in the airline industry working at discounted rates because we gave concessions in '96 because they had had a previous period of bad performance. Now we are looking for a return on that investment. We are very realistic in our analysis of what the company can afford. We have no desire to cripple the company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Giambusso 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); STRIKES (90%); OVERTIME (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); LITIGATION (76%); ETHICS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); JUDGES (71%); INJUNCTIONS (71%); APPEALS (56%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PILOTS; LABOR 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); BOEING CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (91%) AIR LINE PILOTS ASSN; DELTA AIR LINES INC 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GIAMBUSSO, CHARLES S; ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (76%) UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



153 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
A Voice That Says a Rate Cut Is Not the Cure for All Ills

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
SINCE the Federal Reserve Board cut interest rates last Wednesday, le tout Wall Street has risen up like a chorus, saying that stocks are always the best place to be when rates are falling. Well, pas exactement.
 One who has not joined the crowd is Byron R. Wien, chief United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter and one of those rarities anywhere -- an independent thinker. "It isn't a sure thing that just because the Fed eases, the stock market goes up," Mr. Wien said. "The key differentiating factor is whether we are in a recession." 
 Investors can be forgiven for wanting to believe that rate cuts from Mr. Greenspan translate automatically into stock market gains. That is, after all, what their recent experience has taught them. "Everyone remembers what happened when the Fed eased in 1995 and 1998," Mr. Wien said. "But both were because of financial crises, not recessions." The 1995 crisis started with the devaluation of the Mexican peso, and the more recent turmoil was a result of Russia's default on its debt and the collapse of the huge hedge fund, Long-Term Capital Management. 
Longer memories are required, however, if investors are to recall the way stocks reacted to rate cuts that were prompted by a recession. Mr. Wien has gone back 10 years to help explode the myth that just because the Fed eases, stocks always rally strongly. 
In June 1989, after a period of rising interest rates, the Fed began to ease, initially cutting the Fed funds target rate from 9.81 percent to 9.56 percent. The day of the first cut, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index stood at 326.69. 
Roughly 18 months later, when Fed funds were at 7 percent and the nation was in recession, the S.& P. had risen a mere 2 points, to 328.72. 
Stocks did rally somewhat during that time, of course. In July 1990, the S.& P. index traded as high as 368.95, a gain of 13 percent from the June 1989 level. But investors who held on wound up making no money during the period. Only in early 1991, when investors sensed that the recession was ending, did stocks start to stir. 
No one knows, of course, if what is now just an economic slowdown will turn into a recession, defined as two consecutive quarters of negative growth in gross domestic product. Mr. Wien, for one, thinks that the economy will dip into a shallow and relatively short recession in the first half of this year. And the employment report last Friday, which showed a sharp falloff in labor demand, only cemented his view. 
Although stocks rallied wildly on the Fed's move last Wednesday, they spent the remainder of the week skulking back into negative territory. The Dow Jones industrial average closed the week down 1.2 percent and the Nasdaq composite lost 2.5 percent of its value during the first week of 2001.
"This economy is unraveling at a very rapid rate," Mr. Wien said. He also believes that economic recovery in the second half will be muted and that corporate profit surprises will be more downside than up.
As a result, investors who think they can jump back into stocks with both feet just because the Fed is behind them should consider an alternative investment: boring, dull United States Treasury bonds.
As the Fed cuts rates aggressively this year, Mr. Wien thinks that yields on the 10-year Treasury could drop to 4 percent. That is a sharp decline from Friday's close of 4.93 percent. If Mr. Wien is correct, the decline would translate to a gain of roughly 8 percent for an owner of such a security, not counting the 5.75 percent coupon. And at virtually no risk to capital.
Although Mr. Wien conceded that corporate bonds, particularly those of lower-quality issuers, look attractive at current prices, he is hesitant to recommend them as ardently as Treasuries. Investors picking through the junk-bond market must be extremely selective, he said, because the economic slowdown will probably bring a raft of bankruptcies among these companies.
There is no doubt that the Fed will do what it must to rescue the economy. But don't look to stocks to star again soon.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "When Cuts Didn't Work"Despite rate cuts in 1989, stocks still slipped in 1990.Chart tracks S.&P. 500 since 1989.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); DEVALUATION (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; WIEN, BYRON R 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



154 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3258 words

HEADLINE: Of Church, State and Journalism 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY 

 BODY:
THIS city has a simple logic. First Street begins a block from the temple of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; the remainder of the streets radiate out from there. The map mirrors Utah's civic life. For Mormons and non-Mormons alike -- the city's population is split about 50-50 -- the central reference point is the church. It is the spiritual home of 11 million members and the financial repository of an estimated $20 billion in assets.
 Over the last 18 months, AT&T executives have learned Salt Lake's psychic map all too well. Their effort to unload The Salt Lake Tribune, an $81-million-a-year pipsqueak of a business within their $112 billion corporate empire, has aroused sectarian resentments that this prosperous, seemingly placid city cannot seem to shake. 
 At the center of it are the morning Tribune, founded 129 years ago by Mormon dissidents, and its afternoon rival, the church-owned Deseret News. Each is run by executives who assert that their paper's core values -- or its survival -- face a mortal threat from the other. Though viscerally at odds over business strategy, they handcuffed themselves together in a joint operating agreement under which they share presses, circulation crews and advertising staff members. The arrangement, 48 years old, has kept both in business and profitable, but it has also bred allegations of mismanagement and bad faith. Each newsroom periodically grumbles that the other skews the news. 
AT&T stumbled inadvertently into this beehive. It got The Tribune when it bought the newspaper's owner, TeleCommunications Inc., the cable television company based in Englewood, Colo. Almost as soon as the TCI deal closed, AT&T began looking to sell the newspaper so it could focus on expanding cable services. Two years later, that cable strategy is dead -- AT&T decided to spin off the business last year -- though it took the company until last week to reach a deal. The company agreed to sell the paper to the MediaNews Group for $200 million to try to end the irritation. Tribune executives lost their first court challenge to block the deal, but plan to be back in federal court with new claims this week.
Unlike cable companies or Internet services or insurance brokers, newspapers have complicated, often passionate relationships with the communities they serve. The Tribune does not rank in the top 75 newspapers nationally; it sells about 135,000 copies daily in a state with 2.2 million people. But its size belies its role as a civic counterweight to the Mormon Church in Salt Lake, one of the fastest-growing markets in the country.
The financial, legal and political path that put The Tribune in the hands of MediaNews Group is a tale from which different witnesses extract different lessons. James E. Shelledy, The Tribune's editor, told his readers in a Dec. 3 "letter from the editor" that the "L.D.S. leadership, quite understandably, wants its sectarian spin on certain news events to have at least as loud a voice as The Tribune's, however that is attained."
John Hughes, Mr. Shelledy's counterpart at The Deseret News, sees the sale as the logical conclusion of an unworkable business partnership. "The management of The Tribune," he said, "repressed and oppressed The Deseret News." AT&T executives view it as a way out of an untenable situation that was tying up resources.
CONVENIENTLY enough, the deal with MediaNews, headed by W. Dean Singleton, also satisfied church officials, whose cooperation can help any corporation wanting to expand telephone or cable operations in Utah, the fourth-fastest-growing state in the country.
The fight has left this city's air thick with mistrust and the residue of grievances, old and new. And at the psychic center of it all is the church. With suspicions unsupported by clear evidence, some non-Mormons fear that The Tribune -- the newspaper that speaks for them, without fearing or favoring the church -- is about to fall silent.
"I think any time you have one powerful institution and particularly a predominant religion in a community, those who are not part of that feel that there is an excessive, excessive control, especially politically," said Ross C. Anderson, the city's Democratic mayor.
"Although the L.D.S. church does not often get involved in political issues, when it does, its position seems to dictate exactly what's going to happen in our legislature," he continued. "And that obviously causes resentment among those who don't feel adequately represented." About 90 percent of state legislators are Mormon Church members, as is the state's senior United States Senator, Orrin G. Hatch, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Mr. Shelledy, who has been The Tribune's editor for a decade, said the situation in Salt Lake had no parallel. "While there are a lot of Catholics in Boston and a lot of Jews in New York and a lot of Baptists in Tulsa, those particular religions do not have the business structure that the Mormon Church has, nor anywhere near the intensity it has in this state," he said. "There's a dual function here. There's a religious function of the church and a business function of the church and it all runs out of one office." In this situation, he added, "the check and balance ends up being the paper that says: 'Hey, wait a minute here, is this really what we want to do?' "
Mr. Shelledy has run many articles asking uncomfortable questions about the church. The Tribune has examined a successful church proposal to buy part of Main Street and turn it into a church-controlled plaza, and it has written about the difficulties of Mormons who are openly gay. Last year, it ran a three-part series on one of the most painful incidents in church history, a Mormon-led massacre in 1857 of California-bound settlers at a place in southern Utah called Mountain Meadows.
Still, the resentment here works both ways. Some church members contend that Mormons are held to a double standard. For instance, they say a Utah resident who speaks out against loosening of local liquor laws for the 2002 Winter Olympics is seen as religiously motivated, whereas an Australian taking the same position before the Sydney Olympics last summer would not have been.
For observant Mormons, The Tribune is a constant irritant. They complain that it gratuitously rubs the community's nose in less-than-relevant but potentially scandalous moments in Mormon history. When the Mountain Meadows Massacre series ran last March, the church's president, Gordon B. Hinckley, took the unusual step of calling in The Tribune's publisher, Dominic Welch, for a formal dressing-down.
BUT the church's irritation over The Tribune's content was minor, compared with the anger expressed by business executives of The Deseret News. They contend that the managers of The Tribune, which is the managing partner in the joint operating unit, the Newspaper Agency Corporation, have systematically thwarted their legitimate business goals and cost them tens of millions of dollars.
"The Tribune did bring the present pass on themselves," said Mr. Hughes, a courtly, Welsh-born Christian Scientist who served as editor of The Christian Science Monitor and a spokesman for the State Department before becoming the first non-Mormon editor of The Deseret News four years ago. "They have been arrogant over the years."
He and other managers at The Desert News say that under Mr. Welch, the partnership's financial performance has lagged behind the booming economy. They complain that they pay the same amount as The Tribune for extra advertising pages, even though The Tribune's circulation, and costs, are double their own. They wonder if they were overcharged for newsprint from a mill in which Kearns-Tribune, the company that owned The Tribune, had a 6 percent stake.
Most important, they contend that before he was replaced as chief of the joint operating agency last week by The Tribune's new owner, Mr. Welch was putting up costly roadblocks to their plan to change The Deseret News to morning publication, a move they regarded as necessary if the paper was to thrive. The roadblocks included a requirement for a new press, which could cost $15 million or more.
Mr. Welch has dismissed such complaints. "The Deseret News is the failing newspaper," he once wrote in a letter to his bosses at AT&T. "The joint operating agreement was forged to keep it in business." The News, he noted, produced just 30 percent of agency revenues, but got to keep 42 percent of the profits. The News's wish to move to morning publication, he said, would require both papers to ignore late sporting events and government meetings unless someone paid for a "major remodeling" of their joint production facilities. Since The News wants it, he said, The News should pay for it.
The Tribune has held the upper hand in the business partnership from the day it was created in 1952 to keep the then-financially precarious News alive. While the Newspaper Agency Corporation was owned equally by the two newspapers, The Tribune had the right to name the N.A.C.'s president, ceding it effective control. It also had enough clout to eventually sidestep an agreement that nominally gives each paper the right to veto the sale of the other's half of the joint production facility.
Still, the venture was lucrative enough that by 1970, Kearns-Tribune had many other assets, including a silver mining company in the Park City area. Most important, however, it owned about 7 percent of the Class B stock of a small Rocky Mountain cable company that had just had its initial public offering. That company was TeleCommunications, and each Class B share had 10 times the voting power of ordinary Class A shares.
The value of those supervoting shares boomed as TeleCommunications expanded under its chairman, John Malone. That, in turn, encouraged some restless descendants of Senator Thomas Kearns, who had bought The Tribune in 1901, to try to cash out by selling the closely held Kearns-Tribune. Other family members resisted, largely to retain the newspaper's independence.
One compromise was struck in the 1970's, when several Kearns-Tribune shareholders bought out their relatives. A second came in 1997, when Mr. Malone -- eager to bring the large bloc of supervoting TCI shares under his control -- agreed to vest control of The Tribune with The Salt Lake Tribune Publishing Company, an entity run by The Tribune's managers. He also agreed to give that company the right to buy back the newspaper at its market value five years after the takeover.
The deal, in which Kearns family members and some employees received $731 million in TCI stock tax-free, was sealed that summer. Everyone associated with Kearns-Tribune and TCI had reason to be happy. More than 45 Kearns heirs realized hundreds of millions of dollars, and TCI was free to strip Kearns-Tribune of all assets except The Tribune.
Executives of The Deseret News Publishing Company were less happy. Their right to veto the sale of jointly owned newspaper production facilities -- and, perhaps, exact a little revenge on The Tribune -- was frustrated by the way the sale was arranged. Kearns-Tribune and TCI had swapped stock in the Kearns-Tribune Corporation itself -- which, incidentally, held The Tribune's assets, including its 50 percent share of the newspaper production company. Technically, there was no direct sale of the newspaper's assets.
The only good news for the church-owned publishing company was that it had a new partner and thus a place to appeal Mr. Welch's decisions about the partnership's operations. AT&T officials like Leo Hindery Jr. were sympathetic, and tried to pressure The Tribune's managers to accede to some of The News's demands, particularly those that would permit morning publication. But the impasse proved unbreakable. 
When The Deseret News threatened to sue its rival -- and AT&T, as its parent -- contending various misdeeds, AT&T stepped up efforts to sell The Tribune to its managers or to the church.
In a sworn affidavit in a federal lawsuit brought by the Tribune Publishing Company to block the sale, Steven Garfinkel, an AT&T lawyer, described a situation in which The Deseret News Publishing Company was preparing to sue AT&T, as The Tribune's owner, for $120 million. Deseret complained that AT&T was "failing to adequately promote The Deseret News, misallocating costs of operating the two papers to the advantage of The Tribune, and frustrating Deseret News Publishing in exercising its right" to publish in the morning.
"In order to find a way out of this dispute and dispose of an asset that simply had no place in AT&T's future," Mr. Garfinkel's affidavit continued, "AT&T explored the possibility of a sale of Kearns-Tribune to either" the Salt Lake Tribune Publishing Company or Deseret News Publishing.
The News was interested; Lloyd Poelman, one of its lawyers, said he had attended a meeting at which Senator Hatch was briefed on the talks between AT&T and The News. As chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Senator Hatch, a Republican, could have had a crucial role in scrutinizing any executive branch antitrust ruling on the church's purchase of the only competing daily in Salt Lake.
But the church never intended to silence the voice of The Tribune, Mr. Hughes said. "It's absolute nonsense; it's not so," he said. "We deny it, and they call us liars."
AT&T finally decided that The Deseret News had little taste for an antitrust battle, but was ready to exercise its veto on the sale of jointly owned assets to prevent Tribune managers from buying the bigger paper. So while AT&T continued to negotiate with Mr. Welch and The Tribune's managers, it also opened a line to Mr. Singleton, the chief executive of MediaNews.
In the last 17 years, Mr. Singleton has built MediaNews Group into the seventh-largest United States newspaper chain, with 48 dailies, 88 other publications and annual revenue of more than $1 billion. He had been interested in The Tribune for years. A Baptist, he has a reputation as a hard-driving executive, cost-cutter and competitor. His Denver Post won a bloody circulation war with The Denver Rocky Mountain News.
Mr. Singleton enlisted a Mormon employee, James Wall, the general manager of The Denver Post, to find out whom to talk to at The Deseret News about how it would receive his bid for The Tribune and what The News would want from him as a partner in the production company. (Mr. Wall became publisher of The News last fall.) Mr. Singleton met with L. Glen Snarr, chairman and president of the Deseret News Publishing Company. Most of his requests were "things we were accustomed to" in other joint operating agreements, Mr. Singleton testified later in federal court.
In September, AT&T tried one last time to find a solution acceptable to both warring parties without selling The Tribune to a third party. Even so, Mr. Singleton submitted a bid a month later. AT&T officials said they shelved it.
BY late October, The Tribune's managers had committed to raising the money to buy the newspaper -- Wells Fargo Bank had conditionally agreed to lend them most of the $180 million price -- and to indemnify AT&T against the likely claims of The Deseret News. When the two parties last talked, just before Thanksgiving, the managers had raised their indemnification proposal to $33 million. That was still $17 million short of what AT&T wanted.
But The Tribune's managers believed, as one testified last month in a Federal court hearing, that this and other unresolved issues were just "nits." They expected the deal to close by the end of the year, if not sooner. Mr. Garfinkel, however, testified at the hearing that he did not characterize the open issues as mere "nits." His parting words before the Thanksgiving break, he said, were to the effect of "I'm looking forward to wrapping these things up."
That remark was soon overtaken by events. On the Monday after Thanksgiving, C. Michael Armstrong, AT&T's chairman, directed that negotiations with MediaNews be resumed, an AT&T executive testified. Five days later, on Dec. 1, the deal was done. When Mr. Singleton and an AT&T executive came to The Tribune building to break the news, shocked Tribune managers barred the newspapers' doors and raced to federal court seeking an injunction to block the sale.
On Dec. 15, after a two-day hearing in which the publishers of the two papers pointedly avoided each other, Federal District Judge Tena Campbell denied the request for a temporary order blocking the sale. In her 33-page opinion, Judge Campbell said she had found no compelling evidence that The Tribune would lose its "independent voice and unique characteristics" under MediaNews Group ownership. MediaNews, she continued, "has agreed 'to honor the terms of the management agreement that ensures the independence of The Tribune's reporting and editing functions.' "
AT&T and MediaNews closed the sale when Mr. Singleton paid $200 million in cash and delivered a guarantee from the Deseret News Publication Company renouncing all potential claims against AT&T. (The guarantee had come after Mark H. Willes -- the former chief executive of the Times Mirror Company and a nephew of Mr. Hinckley, the Mormon Church's president -- told The News's editor, John Hughes, that Mr. Singleton would be a reliable business partner.)
Immediately after the sale closed, Mr. Singleton appointed himself and another MediaNews executive as The Tribune's representatives to the newspaper production company jointly owned with The News. Mr. Singleton, now the partnership's chairman for life, followed up by presiding over a vote by the board to oust Mr. Welch as president. It replaced him with a Singleton employee, the current head of a joint operating agreement in York, Pa.
All of these actions matched up well with The Deseret News's wish list, presented to Mr. Singleton last summer when he first became an active bidder. But MediaNews negotiators later told Tribune executives that some things on the wish list had been rejected -- including a request to tone down The Tribune's coverage of church-related issues.
The various changes that Mr. Singleton made to the joint operating agreement are now the focus of a new lawsuit that the Tribune Publishing Company plans to file in the next few days.
In the deal, Mr. Singleton inherited the option agreement that theoretically gives the Tribune company the right to buy back the newspaper in 18 months. But Mr. Singleton testified that he told an old friend and former Tribune executive last summer, that the option "was not exercisable."
NOT surprisingly, news coverage of the sale in The Tribune and The News has been colored by their different perspectives. Both views resonate in this divided city.
During a radio talk show interview in the midst of the trial, The Tribune's feisty editor, Mr. Shelledy, said, "We believe in separation of church and state." His host rejoined: "They do, in that country," referring to the rest of the United States as if it were a country apart.
For his part, Mr. Hughes, whose second wife is a Mormon, said his Mormon friends now made comments like: "So the rascals over there are finally getting their comeuppance. They brought this on themselves." Among his non-Mormon friends, he said, "there is quite an uproar."
Philip McCarthey, a Kearns heir who says he is determined to fight whatever legal battles are required to get The Tribune back, nonetheless believes that this is, at its core, a business fight. But, he said, "living in this community it's always going to be seen as a religious issue."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Mormon Temple looms large over Salt Lake City and its two daily newspapers. (Associated Press); Dominic Welch, the publisher of The Salt Lake City Tribune.; John Hughes, editor of The Deseret News, Salt Lake's afternoon paper.; Russell Thompson, a zone manager, sorts copies of the afternoon Deseret News for delivery. (Photographs by Brett R. Crandall for The New York Times)(pg. 1); W. Dean Singleton, new owner of The Salt Lake Tribune, with portraits of the first Kearns family owners of the paper, Jenny and Thomas Kerns. (Danny La/The Salt Lake Tribune); Executives of Salt Lake's two daily newspapers have squared off over each other's journalistic and business practices. L. Glen Snarr, left, is chairman and president of the Deseret News Publishing Company, which is owned by the Mormon Church, while James E. Shelledy, right, is editor of The Salt Lake Tribune. (Photographs by Brett R. Crandall for The New York Times)(pg. 13) Chart: "At Odds In Salt Lake City"THE SALT LAKE TRIBUNEUtah's largest newspaper, with a statewide circulation of 135,000. Founded in 1871 by Mormon dissidents. A recent poll found that 29 percent of Salt Lake residents think its coverage is biased against the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; 37 percent said it was neutral. W. Dean SingletonChief executive of the MediaNews Group of Denver, a 17-year-old chain that now owns 48 dailies, including The Tribune. Long interested in The Tribune, given its well-educated and fast-growing market, he paid its owner, AT&T, $200 million and guaranteed that it would have no legal trouble from The News related to the sale. Dominic WelchPublisher of The Tribune, and until last week president of the partnership that sells, prints and distributes both papers. James E. ShelledyEditor of The Tribune. He has devoted significant resources to covering the financial, political and historical activities of the Mormon Church, and now to the fight over the newspaper's future. THE DESERET NEWS Founded in 1850 and owned by the Mormon Church. The name (pronounced DES-er-RET) comes from a word in the Book of Mormon meaning honeybee and was the Mormons' original name for Utah. A recent poll found that 71 percent of Salt Lake residents think its coverage favors the church. John HughesEditor of The News. The first non-Mormon to hold that job, he previously was a spokesman for the State Department and the editor of The Christian Science Monitor. (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORMONS & MORMONISM (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); RELIGION (93%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); CITIES (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (70%); LITIGATION (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); INSURANCE (65%); BAD FAITH (64%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%) NEWSPAPERS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; MORMONS (CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS) 

COMPANY: KEARNS-TRIBUNE LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (96%) AT&T CORP; SALT LAKE CITY TRIBUNE; TELECOMMUNICATIONS INC; DESERET NEWS; MEDIANEWS GROUP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (94%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (97%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



155 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Extreme Hygiene; 
Kill All the Bacteria!

BYLINE:  By GINA KOLATA 

 BODY:
IT'S the bleak winter season again. Days are short, and the air is frigid: the United States has just endured the coldest November and December in its recorded history. And every other person seems to be ill and determined to spread his or her germs. 
 The grocery store checker sneezes as she scans the produce. The man on the train coughs constantly as his seatmate scrunches against the window and turns her head away. The woman at work hacks away before handing a sheaf of papers to a colleague. 
 But there also is a counter-insurgency out there, armed with an arsenal of hand soaps, sprays for the bathroom and kitchen countertops, dishwashing detergents, lotions, Band-aids, toothbrushes, toothpaste, even chopsticks with chemicals guaranteed to kill household germs.
The army is deployed despite scientists' repeated warnings that the more you try to kill germs, the stronger they become. Not only are new studies showing that more and more bacteria are becoming impervious to antibiotics, but there are studies showing that, at least in the laboratory, bacteria can become resistant to the germ-killing chemicals in soaps and cleansers. 
"We've become cognizant of the footrace between man and microbes with antibiotic resistance," said Dr. Richard P. Wenzel, chairman of the department of internal medicine at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond. "We've also gone overboard trying to kill everything in the environment." 
Like a D-Day assault against Liechtenstein, the vast antibacterial campaign is misdirected. Doctors do worry about two strains of bacteria that are spread by touching surfaces, Dr. Wenzel said, but they are only found in hospitals. And anyway, most winter illnesses are viral, not bacterial. 
So where does this antibacterial fetishism come from? 
"A lot of it is not based on science," said Dr. Jeffrey S. Duchin, who is chief of the Communicable Disease Control, Epidemiology and Immunization Section of the public health department of Seattle and King County, Washington. "It is based on our national psyche and what we value -- purity and cleanliness."
The United States is not the only country fixated on germs. In England, said Dr. Stuart Levy, director of the Center for Adaptation Genetics and Drug Resistance at Tufts University School of Medicine in Boston, plastic food storage containers are impregnated with antibacterial chemicals. In Italy, he said, antibacterial products are advertised in public laundries. 
The most inventive antibacterial products may be in Japan, where they include antiseptic telephones, pens, origami paper, bicycle handles and tambourines. 
But few nations rival the United States in antibacterial zeal, Dr. Levy said. While the Japanese like material products -- even steering wheels -- to be impregnated with antibacterial chemicals, Dr. Levy said, we want them in everything we clean with or touch. 
Students of medical history say that such germicidal fanaticism is part of a century-long trend that began with the germ theory of disease in the 19th century, which finally showed that bad air, or "miasmas," were not spreading illness. 
The new understanding spawned an enthusiastic public health movement around the turn of the century in America and Europe, which began by teaching basic hygiene, like hand-washing, keeping food clean and quarantining the sick. This greatly reduced the incidence of deadly diseases like cholera in a time when there were no antibiotics. And it left an indelible impression on the populace. 
The British historian Roy Porter, in his book, "The Greatest Benefit to Mankind: A Medical History of Humanity" (W. W. Norton, 1998) notes that phrases like "cleanliness is next to godliness" became popular around the turn of the last century. 
In New York, the city offered mothers free milk, but when they arrived to pick it up they were instilled with public health messages. One of the very first motion pictures was "The Fly Pest," produced by the New York City Department of Health in 1907 in an effort to teach people that flies on food and in the house can spread germs and disease. Gretchen Worden, who directs the Mutter Museum at the College of Physicians in Philadelphia, says that even the notion of antibacterial soap got its start then. The museum has a turn-of-the-century bar of Neko brand soap, with a label saying it kills bacteria.
 STILL, the inflation of public health concerns into germ phobia, say some medical historians, was strongly encouraged after businesses began selling hygiene. When the public health campaign began, soap makers seized the moment, said Dr. Marc Micozzi, who is executive director of the Philadelphia college. 
And commercial interests have continued to fuel the germ war. From just a few dozen antibacterial products in the mid-1990's, there are more than 700 being sold today, Dr. Levy said.
The best solution for safeguarding one's health is simply washing one's hands with ordinary soap, said Dr. Micozzi, who is chairman of the National Hygiene Foundation. He follows that advice himself, he said, washing his own hands frequently. "Certainly, whenever I visit the restroom, and before and after eating, and, frankly, whenever I think of it," he said. 
However, the same America that cleans with antibacterial counter sprays shows an astonishing unwillingness to take such a simple step. According to the American Society of Microbiology, in a study last year observing 7,836 people in restrooms in Chicago, Atlanta, New York, New Orleans and San Francisco, just 58 percent washed their hands. 
What about those who do wash their hands? Like many other medical experts Dr. Micozzi seeks out old-fashioned soap and cleansers that do not claim to kill every bacterium in sight. But they are getting harder and harder to find. 
"It's ridiculous," said Dr. Duchin, who recently found himself buying antibacterial soft soap for his children because his grocery stocked nothing else. "It's like you sterilize your kids." 
Medical experts like Dr. Levy think Americans have gone way too far in their zeal to rid their bodies and their homes of every last bacterium. The message is clear, Dr. Levy said: "If you were a bacterium, there is no longer any refuge in the healthy home." 
That single-minded focus can distract people from more serious bacterial hazards. People can die from a bacterial strain, E. coli 0157:H7, that is found in cattle feces and has made its way into the food supply. Salmonella and campylobacter are ubiquitous in poultry and can give people diarrhea and fevers. These bacteria can be killed by irradiating meat, Dr. Duchin said. But that is not happening. 
"People want antiseptic sterilizing soap but they accept feces in their hamburger," Dr. Duchin said. "If people would insist on the same level of hygiene in their food as they do in their bathroom, we would have a much healthier population."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Tony Cenicola for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIBIOTICS (90%); BACTERIA (90%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (90%); ANTI-INFECTIVES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); TOILET SOAPS (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TOOTHPASTES & GELS (74%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (74%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (74%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (74%); ORAL CARE PRODUCTS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); DRUG RESISTANCE (73%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (65%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (63%); HISTORY (57%) CLEANSERS, DETERGENTS AND SOAPS; BACTERIA; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); ENGLAND (79%); LIECHTENSTEIN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



156 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
Abuses Of Power

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
How did California get into its electricity mess? Now what?
 Start with the less interesting question. The biggest single cause of the California power crisis is simply that nobody expected demand for electricity to grow so rapidly. When the political momentum for deregulation was building, in the mid-1990's, California's economy was still suffering the aftereffects of a nasty recession; most experts thought that there would be excess generating capacity well into the next decade. Then California began growing faster than anyone had thought possible. The result was surging demand for power. 
 To cope with an increase in demand, you either need to persuade consumers to consume less or make it possible to produce more. But California's deregulation did neither.
First, while the wholesale market in which local utilities buy power from generators has been set free, the prices charged by local utilities to final users have stayed under state control -- at the request, let us add, of the utilities, which wanted protection from a price slump. So consumers have had no incentive to economize on electricity use. 
Meanwhile, no new power plants have been built. This is partly the result of the regulatory hurdles that would-be builders of plants must surmount; it is probably also the result of the fact that companies that already own substantial shares of California's generating capacity, and which therefore stand to benefit from a tight market, have little incentive to add capacity. (Some analysts believe that these power companies have actually withheld power from the market for the same reason, though this is not the core of the crisis.) Eventually new plants constructed by new players will ease the strain -- but this will take time.
So for the time being California finds itself with a demand for electricity that it cannot meet. One result has been rationing of power, mainly hurting businesses rather than families. But the physical shortages of electricity have actually been more or less manageable; what is really pushing the state to the brink is the financial fallout. California's utilities find themselves in a bidding war, both with one another and with their counterparts in neighboring states, for the limited supply of wholesale power available. This bidding war has sent wholesale electricity prices to 40 or 50 times their normal level, bringing huge windfall profits to the companies that generate power, but also bringing the utilities that deliver power to the edge of bankruptcy.
It's a miserable story -- botched deregulation meets Murphy's Law. But the main question is, Now what?
Bear in mind that while the huge profits now being earned on electricity sales will lead, over time, to construction of more plants, it could be years before the situation returns to normal. So what are the options?
The simplest option would be for California to deregulate all the way -- and let the prices to final consumers go as high as necessary to persuade them to limit their demand to the available supply. This would work; it would be efficient; and it would also transfer tens of billions of dollars from California consumers to eight lucky power companies.
An alternative would be a temporary and partial reregulation: placing price caps on wholesale power, while also raising prices to consumers, and engaging in some power rationing while fixing the pricing system and hastening the arrival of new generating capacity. This would be messy, somewhat inefficient and a lot fairer. It would also, however, require federal help. California has already found that it cannot unilaterally impose price caps on wholesale power because other states are also short of power, and the electricity simply goes elsewhere. So this solution would require higher-level intervention.
If the "power summit" now scheduled for this week had happened a year ago, one could reasonably have expected a compromise along the lines of the latter alternative -- that is, a compromise that, without trying to wish the shortage away, tries to limit the damage to consumers and the windfall profits to producers. But George W. Bush doesn't just have an ideological attachment to free markets; he has close personal ties to some of the companies that are making such huge profits in California right now.
Mr. Bush has been conspicuously silent on the California crisis. But in the end it's his decision. Will he help California find an answer that does not involve paying a huge ransom to his friends? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); WHOLESALERS (88%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (52%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (56%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



157 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 90 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
Port Chester Factory Moving to Connecticut

BYLINE:  By Elsa Brenner

 BODY:
 Port Chester is losing one of its largest employers to Stratford, Conn., and with it 155 local jobs. 
Nadel Industries, a manufacturer of plastic containers, will move in the spring to make way for a $100 million downtown redevelopment. 
 Village officials expect the lost jobs to be replaced by more than 1,000 new jobs created by The Waterfront at Port Chester, now under construction. Nadel, a 28-year-old company, is just one of a number of businesses and residents being dislocated by the 27-acre redevelopment project. Elsa Brenner

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISC PLASTIC PRODUCTS MFG (87%); JOB CREATION (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (85%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (85%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); CITIES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



158 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Demographic Time Bomb 

 BODY:
European leaders know that their nations' plummeting birth rates and aging populations cry out for a major change in immigration policy. But they are unwilling or unable to sell the need for greater levels of immigration to a public that does not share Americans' more welcoming spirit. Their failure could imperil Europe's economic vitality. 
 The combined population of the 15 nations of the European Union was larger in 1995 than that of the United States, by 105 million, but by 2050 it could be smaller by 18 million. Spain and Italy will see their populations shrink by more than a quarter in that period. These declining birth rates translate into aging populations. 
 European policy makers are grappling with the implications for social welfare programs. There is widespread concern, for example, over the future of the social security system, as there is in this country -- how to sustain a pay-as-you-go system with an ever-smaller number of workers supporting an ever-larger pool of retirees. But in Europe the numbers are a lot starker, with retirees projected to outnumber workers by 2050. As a result, late last year, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a grouping of the world's wealthiest nations, warned that many of its member states may be unable to finance their public pension systems in just a few years. In Germany, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's government is negotiating with unions and employer groups to reform the current pension system in response to the nation's aging population. 
Higher levels of legal immigration would certainly help, easing labor shortages and increasing the number of taxpayers propping up pension systems. According to some estimates, the European Union will need as many as 75 million immigrants over the next half-century. But there is no political will to translate this awareness into an overhaul of the Continent's restrictive immigration policies. In a recent series of articles, The Times's Roger Cohen vividly chronicled Europeans' struggle to make their societies more accepting of immigrants. Distressingly, too many politicians are willing to capitalize on anti-immigrant sentiments. 
The result is a cynical, unacknowledged dependence on foreign labor that is not formally welcome. Turkish immigrants in Germany have been referred to as "guest workers" for a whole generation. A more recent reliance on illegal immigrants deprives workers across Europe of basic rights. 
The European Union's policy-making bodies are prodding member states to take the lead in fighting racism and xenophobia. Late last year the European Commission issued a policy paper stressing the need for more "proactive" immigration to ensure the Continent's future economic growth and the viability of its social welfare systems. It is time for the national governments to pay heed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); AGING (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); TRENDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); AGING TRENDS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); REFUGEES (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (71%); POLITICS (67%); LABOR SHORTAGES (67%); RACE & RACISM (63%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; POPULATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION; EDITORIALS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



159 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: The Baby Boomers And the Collection Plate 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Sharing the Bounty: How Much Is Enough?" (Midstream, Dec. 24), in which James Schembari discussed his family's decision to increase its contributions to its church: 
 I plan to share his column with fellow officers of my church in Washington, D.C. As a baby-boomer elder at the church, I have watched its budget double, to more than $3 million, without the help of any single large gift from a benefactor family. 
Simply put, it takes a lot of money to run a large church these days, and a few bucks in the plate does not get the job done.
The column cited evidence that baby boomers were increasing their giving as a result of the economic boom. That is encouraging, because, on the surface, I mainly see baby boomers living beyond their means. Of course, it is easier to be charitable if you have wealth to begin with.
My spouse and I grew into tithing over time, so that now it seems just a regular part of the family budget, which is how I think it should be.

JOHN GREGG
Bethesda, Md., Dec. 31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY BOOMERS (91%); BUDGETS (90%); RELIGION (90%); FAMILY (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%) RELIGION AND CHURCHES; PHILANTHROPY 

PERSON: SCHEMBARI, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (87%); MARYLAND, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



160 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Deepening the Delaware Will Harm the Environment 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The New York Times review of the proposal to deepen the Delaware River ("Dumping Ground Once Again," cover, Dec. 17) raises many questions about the viability of such a proposal. It is worth noting that the Army Corps of Engineers and the Delaware River Port Authority have neither the permits nor the financing needed to proceed with this project. Their ongoing assertions that all is in order is absurd as they stand poised to spend more than $300 million of taxpayers' money. 
 Governor Whitman is to be lauded for assuring that New Jersey will not provide its share of state financing if the Army Corps and Delaware River Port Authority continue with plans to dump most of the 22 million cubic yards of toxic dredge spoils in New Jersey communities. In her new role as head of the Environmental Protection Agency, she will assume an even greater responsibility to insist on necessary environmental and economic reviews on projects such as this one. 
Many members of the Congress and the Senate have questioned the project, opposed federal financing and have called for an independent investigation of the corps' economic and environmental data for the project.
New Jersey and Delaware state representatives have voted against financing the project until outstanding permits have been secured, and environmental and economic concerns have been investigated. Delaware is requiring the Army Corps to apply for state permits, something the corps strenuously refuses to do. 
Gloucester County freeholders and municipal officials continue to challenge the project, in a fierce effort to protect their drinking water, their economy, and the river's fish and wildlife, all of which are threatened by this project.
The Army Corps and the Delaware River Port Authority must halt their effort to blindly push this catastrophic proposal. If the project is as good as they claim and their arguments of economic and environmental viability are true, then they should support an independent review and hold public hearings. Under such scrutiny all would see the project for what it is: a waste of taxpayer dollars and a blight to the environment. We are hopeful that soon-to-be E.P.A. chief Whitman and other elected officials will continue their strident fight against such a boondoggle.

MAYA K. VAN ROSSUM
Washington Crossing, Pa.

The writer is the Delaware Riverkeeper.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); RIVERS (73%); WRITERS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); WILDLIFE (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (58%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



161 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1930 words

HEADLINE: The Death of a River Looms Over Choice for Interior Post 

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN 

 BODY:
Eight years ago, Ignacio Rodriguez took his grandson out for an afternoon of fishing near his house on the Alamosa River in the foothills of the San Juan Mountains in southwest Colorado. The river that runs through the valley was his longtime neighbor, but on this day, he said, it was a stranger.
 "The rocks were red and the river had some greenish tinge to it," Mr. Rodriguez said in a telephone interview last week. "The fish were all belly up. Rainbow trout and German browns -- all dead. It was sickening." 
 Mr. Rodriguez was one of many witnesses to what state officials have called the worst environmental disaster in Colorado, a spill of cyanide and acidic water from a gold-mining operation that killed virtually every living thing in a 17-mile stretch of the Alamosa River, though causing no human injuries. 
The company responsible for the leakage, the Summitville Consolidated Mining Corporation, declared bankruptcy, and its major officers fled the country, leaving taxpayers with a cleanup bill that is approaching $150 million. 
It may take decades before clean water runs year-round through the Alamosa. But the account of what happened in the little valley in a remote corner of Colorado nearly a decade ago is emerging, both sides say, as a central exhibit in the testing of the political philosophy of Gale A. Norton, President-elect George W. Bush's choice for secretary of the interior. 
Ms. Norton, 46, was the attorney general in Colorado when the Alamosa was sterilized with waste from the Summitville mine, and it was under her that many of the legal proceedings against the mine were initiated. Even Ms. Norton's political opponents in Colorado say that her office did a commendable job in trying to get compensation for the damage, though they criticize her for not pressing criminal charges. 
But it is not Ms. Norton's conduct as the state's chief legal officer that is being debated in connection with the Summitville mine. Rather, it is her philosophy. Ms. Norton, like Mr. Bush, has long advocated allowing the mining, timber and oil industries more leeway to police themselves. Their argument is that if businesses are given incentives, like immunity from fines and prosecution, for reporting and cleaning up their own pollution, most will do the right thing -- a so-called self-audit. 
Ms. Norton has also been a consistent advocate of states' rights and minimal federal interference. But in the Summitville case, it was the federal government that stepped in, acting on an emergency basis after the poisoning of the river to avert an even larger disaster, and later winning felony criminal convictions against many of the corporate owners of the mine. The state welcomed the federal intervention. 
"The whole problem with Summitville goes back to the essential trust that the state put in that mining company," said Larry MacDonnell, former director of the Natural Resources Law Center at the University of Colorado. "Summitville is a poster child for the inadequacy of that kind of philosophy."
Regulation was so lax, and state laws so weak -- both were strengthened after the mine disaster -- that Summitville is seen by members of both parties in Colorado as a lesson for the vigilance that government needs to keep over potential polluters. 
Ms. Norton, like other cabinet choices, could not comment on past official actions pending her confirmation hearing. 
But five years ago, when she was asked about how her philosophy of giving polluters incentives to come forth squared with the Summitville case, she said, "This was an unusual case, a situation where the individual in question knew about continued environmental problems and continued with operations in spite of that."
In her writings and speeches, Ms. Norton has preached a new kind of environmentalism, less dependent on federal policing, for example, "We need to give good businesses the incentive and the tools to be good environmental citizens." 
The death of the Alamosa River affected Ms. Norton deeply, said people who worked with her when she was attorney general from 1990 to 1998.
"Summitville to her was a disaster of huge magnitude," said Tim Tymkovich, who served as solicitor general for Ms. Norton. "Gale's philosophy would be not to let polluters off the hook," he said, but to give industries a chance to comply with regulations before acting to enforce them. 
Supporters of Ms. Norton expect her to bring big changes to managing the more than 500 million acres of public land, from national parks to wildlife refuges, and to regulating the thousands of mines operating on federal property. As a protegee of James G. Watt, who angered environmental groups as Ronald Reagan's interior secretary, and as a onetime delegate to the Libertarian Party presidential convention, Ms. Norton has advocated free-market approaches to solving environmental problems.
But even Ms. Norton's staunchest allies say the Summitville disaster points to the limitations of the free-market, hands-off approach.
"Self-auditing without the potential to bring down the hammer will not work," said Terry L. Anderson, who is a member of the Bush transition team on the interior, and is director of the Political Economy Research Center, a free-market environmental research group in Bozeman, Mont. Mr. Anderson suggested Ms. Norton to Mr. Bush for the interior post. 
"What Gale Norton will bring is reform, but not revolution," Mr. Anderson said. "To think that she will come in and let the polluters off the hook if they only agree to 'fess up is dead wrong."
But people who live in the valley that lost all aquatic life to a mine that was, according to court documents, poorly regulated, say they fear that Ms. Norton will bring a philosophy to the office that only invites more Summitvilles.
"You should not let the coyotes guard the sheep pens," Mr. Rodriguez said.
Dr. Colin Henderson, a physician who lives near the Alamosa River, said: "The philosophy at the time this river was killed was to let industry police itself. You had a river where people used to catch fish, that people used to camp next to, where people used to rely on it for good irrigation water for their crops. And now it's been killed."
As interior secretary, Ms. Norton would have broad discretion over thousands of mines on public land. Under a 1872 mining law, companies or individuals are able to buy the public land on which they make their mining claim for only $2.50 an acre, a condition that the departing interior secretary, Bruce Babbitt, has ridiculed as a giveaway of epic proportions. Mr. Babbitt has enlarged the regulatory power of the interior secretary, using his office to deny permits to mines that are considered a threat to environmental or cultural treasures owned by all Americans. 
"Babbitt could not get the Congress to reform the mining laws, but he has essentially reformed them himself through administrative actions," said David Getches, an environmental law professor at the University of Colorado. "Gale Norton will inherit that legacy of discretion. And she can use it either way."
Most months, the Alamosa River is a slight stream that falls steeply from headwaters at 12,000 feet in the high cradle of the San Juan Mountains. It drains into a valley of hay farmers, ranchers, urban exiles and others who live in one of the driest of the high valleys of Colorado, before it slows to a trickle and breaks into small creeks. The valley is sparsely populated, and so far the biggest complaint of farmers has been that the acidic water has corroded their irrigation equipment. Many residents have stopped using the water on their vegetable gardens. 
People have been mining gold in the mountains above the valley for more than century, but it was not until the late 1980's that a new method was used. At Summitville, the method involved crushing millions of tons of rocks and heaping them into giant piles, then soaking them with a cyanide solution that leached the gold from the rocks. The mine was operated for about five years, until 1992, by Summitville, whose major shareholders were in Canada. At the time, the mine was leaching gold with cyanide, Colorado was in a deep recession and its Legislature cut back on enforcement and regulation of mining operations. 
The mine was supposed to be supervised by the state, but from the very beginning, according to court documents, the plastic linings of containment ponds that held the stew of toxic waste were not properly installed -- and the state never caught the problem. The linings were breached, sending poisons into the river. At the same time the mine became a money pit of financial losses. 
In late 1992, just as the toxic waste water was filled to the brim and threatening a heavy spill into the valley, Summitville declared bankruptcy and shut down operations, and its officers fled. It was left to the Environmental Protection Agency, using company workers familiar with the operation, to keep the toxins at bay. It is a continuing operation that federal officials say could go on for two more decades. 
"The river was killed for 17 miles, but it would have been a heck of a lot worse if the feds had not stepped in," said Roger Flynn, who served on the governor's Summitville task force and is the director of Western Mining Action Project, an environmental group in Denver.
Several corporate leaders of the mine were indicted by a federal grand jury and pleaded guilty to numerous felonies, including failure to disclose discharge of toxic waste. The state civil suits against the mine operators were begun in 1996, with Ms. Norton's office joining the federal government in seeking repayment for the millions of dollars spent by the public to control the waste and clean up the mine.
But the state was criticized for its role. "Kudos to federal prosecutors for pressing criminal charges in the Summitville Mine disaster," The Denver Post said in an editorial in 1995. "Nonetheless, it's a shame that Colorado must rely on the feds to pursue the case."
Ms. Norton's wanted to pursue state criminal charges, Mr. Tymkovich said, but was unable to do so because of technical problems with other state agencies, and because the statute of limitations had expired by the time state criminal investigators were on the case. 
Two weeks ago, the new attorney general of Colorado, a Democrat, Ken Salazar, said his office had reached a settlement with one of the principal shareholders in the mine, Robert Friedland, a Canadian businessman based in Singapore, who agreed to pay more than $27 million over the next 10 years to help pay for the cleanup. The state is still trying to get money from five corporations that were involved in the mine, dating to the middle of the last century. 
Ms. Norton vigorously pursued the owners of the mine, the state lawyers involved in the case said. "The legal work that Gale did laid the groundwork for the settlement that Ken Salazar was able to obtain," said Mr. Tymkovich, the solicitor general under Ms. Norton.
In years where there is little snow runoff from the mountains, the Alamosa River bears a faint resemblance to its old self, a river that held numerous trout, say residents of the valley. But in years of heavy rain or snow, the toxins still tumble down into the drainage and the river, reigniting the anger of people who live there.
"I grew up in this valley," said Cindy Medina, a resident. "I used to camp near that mine and went tubing in the river with other kids. Now we have to live with one of the largest mining disasters in the United States. To say the least, we don't believe in self-auditing."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 31, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 7 about Interior Secretary-designate Gale A. Norton's handling of a gold mining company's pollution of a stream in Colorado, when she was the state attorney general, referred incorrectly to the resolution of charges against the company, the Summitville Consolidated Mining Corporation, and its owners. Two former managers of the mine, and the company itself, pleaded guilty to numerous felonies arising from the pollution of the Alamosa River. The federal government did not win convictions against "many" owners of the company.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gale A. Norton; Cyanide and acidic water from gold mining, which were supposed to remain in ponds like this one that is dry, spilled into the Alamosa River eight years ago, killing virtually every living thing in the river for 17 miles. (Paul F. Moloney)(pg. 16) Map of Colorado highlighting Summitville: The cost of cleaning up the Alamosa River is near $150 million. (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CYANIDES (74%); GOLD MINING (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); POISONINGS (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PHILOSOPHY (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); LITIGATION (69%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (67%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%); FELONIES (62%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); AUDITS (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (53%) WATER POLLUTION; MINES AND MINING; GOLD 

ORGANIZATION: SUMMITVILLE CONSOLIDATED MINING CORP; INTERIOR DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) EGAN, TIMOTHY; NORTON, GALE 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) COLORADO; ALAMOSA RIVER

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



162 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2876 words

HEADLINE: Romania's AIDS Children: A Lifeline Lost 

BYLINE:  By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: GALATI, Romania 

 BODY:
Thousands of the Romanian children who contracted the virus that causes AIDS from needless blood transfusions a decade ago are still alive, but hundreds are now at risk of dying rapidly because they can no longer get the medicine they need.
 The high prices charged by Western drug companies, Romania's deep poverty and the failures of the country's weak governments have ensured that life-saving anti-retroviral drugs are beyond the reach of many of the children infected in the dying days or aftermath of the despotic rule of Nicolae Ceausescu, who was overthrown and executed in December 1989. Hospitals, crippled by recent bungling of the national health budget, are taking children off their $10,000-a-year AIDS cocktails. Nor can the hospitals afford another estimated $10,000 a year per child for laboratory tests and the best drugs for secondary infections. American and European drug companies, doctors say, have largely declined their requests for cheaper drugs, and the government has so far proved incapable of forcing prices down, or managing budgets to afford the drugs. 
 Across Romania, there are an estimated 9,000 H.I.V.-positive children -- more than half the total in Europe. Most are 9 to 13. Some live with their families, some in orphanages on the grounds of state hospitals, and some in small "apartment orphanages" like those run in this grim river port by a charity named Heart of the Child. 
For the last several months, seven H.I.V.-positive children have lived in Michael House, a cheerful three-bedroom apartment in a drab Stalinist block. In the United States, all would be on anti-retroviral therapy; here, only five are, and those only because the Romanian women and a Peace Corps volunteer who run the charity are such good beggars. Two get their medicines from the local state hospital. A Dutch charity pays for the drugs for another two. Bristol-Myers Squibb donates drugs for one. Two get nothing.
All have a fairly clear idea of their possible fate. "Look! It's Andiana!" says Anisor, 8, as some photos accidentally slip out of a reporter's notebook.
"Andiana! Andiana!" the others call out, gathering around.
"She's dead, isn't she?" says Iulia, 11. Dr. Anna Burtea, the charity's vice president, nods sadly.
"Andiana's dead, we know that," Stefan, 11, explains to the reporter, being helpful by sticking his tongue out and miming a hanged man.
"She's so skinny!" remarks Maricica, 10, looking at the last picture of Andiana in her hospital bed, taken only three weeks before.
They debate briefly about exactly when she died. After Dr. Burtea assures them that Andiana is in heaven, the subject changes.

Outcasts in the Hospital
Staff members at the hospital where they lived until they came here, she explained, told them regularly that they were going to die, and treated them as contaminated. All their toys had to be separately marked "AIDS PATIENT." The staff was wary of touching them and would never eat with them.
The first time she did, Dr. Burtea said, the children were very suspicious. "What are you doing?" they asked. "You will be sick, like us."
In the 1980's, Romanian children got blood transfusions not just for hemophilia, surgery and other reasons common in the West, but also as a sort of "pick me up" for those anemic or undernourished. In Mr. Ceausescu's drive to pay off Romania's national debt and keep himself in grandiose palaces, state finances were starved, and milk, vitamins and fresh food were scarce, so blood from donors or sellers was used as a substitute. Also, school nurses often reused vaccination needles on dozens of children.
Sometime in the mid-1980's, AIDS contaminated the blood supply, presumably first from sailors and prostitutes, because infection was later found to be concentrated in port cites like Galati, Constanta and Giurgiu. By 1990, with Mr. Ceausescu dead, health authorities who realized that tens of thousands of babies and children had been injected with H.I.V.-positive blood were able to be open about it. A scandal ensued, which was compounded by news of the appalling conditions that many abandoned children, sick or not, were enduring in state-run orphanages.
Help poured in from around the world. Blood testing improved; hospitals got disposable syringes; nurses were retrained.
But the children remained. Slowly, as the virus multiplied and sapped their immune systems, they began to sicken and die.

Measles Takes a Huge Toll
Anca Suhateanu, the head nurse at Doru House, the children's orphanage on the grounds of Dr. Victor Babes Hospital in Bucharest, recalled that in 1990 her center cared for about 140 children. Half of them, she said, perished in a measles epidemic.
"Then, in 1993, when they were all 4 or 5, they began dying like that," she said, snapping her fingers. She can recall one day when two died in two hours.
New children still trickle into Doru House, which is home to about 70 youngsters. A few are toddlers born to infected mothers, most of whom got the disease from sexual contact, Romanian health officials say. Some are transferred from rural orphanages. Some, even 10-year-olds, are newly discovered cases. The disease affects children at different rates, and some parents are just realizing that children they thought merely sickly actually have had AIDS most of their lives.
In a country where a third of the 23 million people live on $1 a day, many families are so poor that they leave the children.
Mariana, 11, a quiet, sweet-natured girl about the size of an American 7-year-old, is from a family of tenant farmers 60 miles from Bucharest. They can rarely afford the $5 train trip to see her, and the last time she went home for Christmas she was back within hours with lung problems and in intensive care for days. When she gets toys, Mrs. Suhateanu said, she saves them for the siblings she has not seen in three years.
If more money or cheaper drugs do not arrive soon, said Mary C. Veal, 52, a Georgia native who has worked at Doru House since 1993 and counts the little girl among her favorites, Mariana and the other children will be taken off the anti-retrovirals that the state has made available to Doru House patients. "And within a month," she said, "they'll be human skeletons again, like they were a year ago, and then pretty soon it will be all over."
The triple-therapy AIDS cocktails, which reached Bucharest in 1997, and small cities like Galati the following year, were a huge success, and death rates dropped sharply. Among the 400 or so children cared for by Victor Babes doctors, deaths went from 66 in 1998 to 19 in 1999 and 18 in 2000.
Since the turnaround, "we don't know their prognosis," said Ms. Veal, whose work is sponsored by an American church foundation, Nobody's Children. "We never envisioned having teenagers. All those years we needed Pampers and suddenly one day I found myself going across the street to get Always pads for one of our girls. I didn't know whether to laugh or cry."

Many Are Denied the Cocktail
 Of the 400 inpatient and outpatient children, about 120 are on anti-retroviral cocktails, said Dr. Dan Duiculescu, chief of pediatric AIDS. If he had enough money, 100 more would be, since they meet Romania's virus-level criteria. In the United States, all 400 would be.
"We get no discounts on any prices from any companies," he said.
He asks companies to put his children on drug trials, which he considers a good trade-off; he offers his cluster of 400 patients, whom he can monitor carefully. Glaxo Wellcome, which helped pay for his computer database, held two trials of different AZT combinations in 1997 and 1998. But only 20 children were in one trial and only 50 in the other, and each time for only six months.
"After that, we had to buy," Dr. Duiculescu said. "We asked if they would donate for the life of the kids, but they said it was not possible. We ask all the companies for discounts or donations. They say 'Not possible.' "
The Glaxo Wellcome company said that children had been dropped after earlier trials, but that other patients, more recently, were kept on free drugs after trials ended.
Dr. Duiculescu said he was told that he would get part of a $750,000 donation of medicine by Bristol-Myers Squibb for 500 patients, but has not received any yet.
And he said he was interested in a proposed Merck & Company trial of two drugs, Crixivan and Stocrin, but worries that it will contain "conditions that will be difficult to accept." The hospital must buy medicine for one patient for every two the drug company supplies free, "and I don't think there will be enough money," he said.
A Merck spokeswoman, Melinda Hanisch, said the trial would involve only 16 adults and the company was not yet willing to experiment on Romanian children because children's metabolisms are different and the company is "especially sensitive to ethical concerns."

How the Companies Help
Most of the five drug companies who sell anti-retrovirals in Romania do make some donations, usually a few months' worth of drugs for a few patients who lose state financing. 
Some make cash gifts; Merck, for example, has already given $1 million for equipment for regional laboratories.
Some also suggested that their own patience is a form of donation. A Glaxo Wellcome statement said that slow payments by the government while the Romanian currency, the leu, is steadily declining means the company is selling at an effective 36 percent discount.
Ms. Hanisch said the company's response to the fiscal crisis was to keep shipping drugs and expect payment later. "We don't say, 'Gee, you can't pay us, so you're cut off,' " she said.
But wholesale prices for the drugs remain high, and there are no imminent plans for price cuts.
Last May, five drug companies announced that they would begin negotiating 80 percent cuts in their prices on AIDS drugs to poor countries. Most of the attention focused on Africa, but Romania was included. According to Unaids, the United Nations agency fighting the disease, only Senegal, Swaziland and Uganda have begun negotiations; Romania has not even formally expressed interest. Asked about their wholesale prices in Romania, five drug companies answered variously that they were "about what the competition charges," "in line with our international pricing policy," or "based on prices used across Europe."
Romania, however, hardly resembles the rest of Europe; the average wage is only $1,200 a year.
Romania's epidemic is disproportionately among children, and disproportionately among orphans with little political clout.
Successive governments have proved incapable of coming to grips with the crisis, failing to push the drug companies for price cuts, failing to collect taxes to fill state coffers and failing to attract the foreign investment that would be vital to stop Romania's slide into even more grinding poverty.
The government normally gives state hospitals less than half of what they request for drugs.
Early this year, the cash crisis became even more acute after a shift in the way health insurance deductions were handled. In Romania, bureaucracy and corruption often connive to drain the economy's lifeblood, and millions of dollars just vanished. No one yet knows whether the money was stolen or just mislaid in the accounting system, but it is not there.
The children at Victor Babes are lucky. The hospital has a private ward for paying patients, and the sympathetic director is using some of that money to buy drugs for the sickest.
In outlying cities, other decisions were made. In the northern city of Iasi, which lost 90 percent of its budget for AIDS drugs, health administrators earmarked the last 10 percent for adults only. The city's 137 H.I.V.-positive children, according to the respected daily Adevarul, have begun dying of flu, tuberculosis and other secondary infections. 
Southwest of Iasi, in Piatra Neamt, which has 241 registered AIDS patients, 222 of them children, enough money was budgeted for 50 patients. About 200 children were abruptly taken off the cocktails for five months, went back on for two, and are now off again.
In Galati, with about 190 infected children and 22 adults, the situation is similar. Some children are cut off, some get interrupted treatment, some get only two drugs instead of the usual three.
Like Iasi and Piatra Neamt, Galati is in Romania's impoverished northeast, "a forgotten area," Dr. Burtea said, and adults demanding medicine have more pull with local health administrators than abandoned orphans do.
"Last year, one child died here every two or three months," Dr. Burtea said of the situation in Galati, where only the lucky few get to live at Michael House. "Now it's two or three a month."
A few weeks ago, Dr. Burtea said, she, Daniela Ariton, the president of the foundation that runs Michael House, and a Peace Corps volunteer, Sonny Hwang, made what the doctor called a "begging trip" to the capital, four hours away. 
It was an exercise in frustration, Mrs. Ariton said. Drug company representatives told them to go see local health officials, who told them to see national health officials, who told them to approach the drug companies.
A state hospital administrator promised them enough medicine for three children. A Hoffmann-LaRoche sales representative gave them a carton of pills on the spot, but it was only enough for double therapy for seven children for three months.

Where's the Money Going?
"I said, 'AIDS is supposed to be the new thing,' " said Ms. Hwang, " 'so where's that money going?' And they said, 'All that money is going to Africa -- that's where the focus is these days.' "
Very few Romanians in AIDS care knew that generic anti-retrovirals are sold at a fraction of Western prices by companies in India, Thailand, Brazil and Canada.
But importing them would mean voiding the patents Western companies have on their drugs, and the Ministry of Health has already agreed to keep those patents in place. In a press release last May acknowledging its "partnership" with five drug companies over access to drugs, the ministry noted that patent laws guaranteeing intellectual property rights were an "enabling principle" for price-cut negotiations. 
In fact, a Unaids spokeswoman said, patent protection is not part of the United Nations agreement with the five pharmaceutical companies. Instead, it recognizes "compliance with international agreements," including the treaty on trade-related aspects of intellectual property. The treaty recognizes many exceptions to patent protection. 
"The Romanians have added this for some reason," she said.
One Romanian demanding that the government either import cheaper generics or force the drug companies to lower their prices is Maria Georgescu, executive director of the Romanian Association Against AIDS, who has been involved in treating children since 1991. "We need to fight these companies," she said. Every time she approaches Western companies asking for lower prices, the local representatives say it is impossible. "They say these prices are set in London and America," she said.
"They tell me they need the money to develop AIDS prevention in other countries. They show me brochures of their activities in Rwanda and Ghana and I don't know where, but it's not Romania."
Mrs. Georgescu said government officials lacked the legal know-how and political will to fight big drug companies over prices or to use loopholes in complex and obscure patent laws to import cheaper generics.
"There have been three changes of the minister of health in four years," she said. "It's chaos. Some talk of seizing the patents, but then they leave."
"No one in government will do this by themselves," she said. "Not unless they have a personal interest, like an H.I.V.-infected friend or something. This is Romania. Here the bureaucrats say: 'What H.I.V. people? We need to get rid of them.' "

Lower Prices Not in Sight
Drug companies who sell anti-retrovirals in Romania declined to comment or say what their response would be if the country tried to negate their patents. A HoffmanLaRoche spokeswoman said the consequences of doing so "are clear: fewer new medicines would come to market."
All mentioned the agreement announced in May, but none could estimate when lower prices might come to Romania. So far, only Senegal and Uganda are close to deep price cuts.
Romanians, who were terrorized into silence under the Ceausescus, still have a hard time complaining aloud, or acting independently to redress perceived grievances. Their American partners, like Ms. Hwang and Ms. Veal, are often more outspoken.
Foreigners are also less inclined to blame only Romania's hapless government and more inclined to criticize the multinationals. 
"The drug companies are helping us out some," Ms. Veal said. "But they're in this business to make money. It's the people with power who get heard here, and our children don't."
"I have a friend in Zimbabwe who does the same kind of work and has the same problems," she went on. "She says things aren't getting any better there, and it's just a matter of tightening and tightening the belt."
"I'm a mother, and I'm a grandmother," she added, getting angrier. "And I'm selfish. Romanian children are just as important as American children. African children are just as important as American children. Who makes these rules?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Children who are H.I.V. positive saying a mealtime prayer in Doru House, an orphanage in Bucharest. (Dan Giurca for The New York Times)(pg. 1); AND YESTERDAY'S CHILD -- At the same hospital in 1990, Mihail Militaru, 1, had AIDS. A shocked Romania had learned that tainted blood had infected thousands of children. (B. Bisson/Corbis-Sygma); TODAY'S CHILD -- An H.I.V.-positive boy, right, has lunch at Doru House on the grounds of Dr. Victor Babes Hospital in Bucharest. (Dan Giurca for The New York Times)(pg. 6) Map of Romania highlighting Galati: AIDS infection in the 1980's was concentrated in port cities like Galati. (pg. 6) Chart: "AT ISSUE: The Toll"Chart shows the number of children with AIDS who died in Dr. Victor Babes Hospital in Bucharest, Romania since 1990. (Source: Dr. Victor Babes Hospital)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); CHARITIES (89%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); VIRUSES (78%); FAMILY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); VOLUNTEERS (64%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (58%)

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%)

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROMANIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%) ROMANIA

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



163 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: State Budget Lacks Retirement Funds 

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 I read with interest the article ("Where Is All the Money Going?", Dec. 24) describing the recent spending program initiated by our state government. Conspicuously absent from this list was any reference to properly funding the state teacher retirement fund and the other State of Connecticut employee retirement funds. All of these have been underfunded for years and the day will shortly arrive when the "bill" to sustain these funds will come due. For all of the attempt at funding some of the programs mentioned, the impact on thousands of retired teachers and state employees and their families would be severe. It is my hope that the leadership of this state will realize the folly of under-financing these programs and will use some of the surplus they are working so hard to spend, to support these funds. Failure to do so would be a major breach of faith for the thousands who depend on the solvency of these funds for their economic survival.

NORMAN S. WINNERMAN
Danbury

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



164 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Healing in Russia: Grim Prognosis 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Russia's Health Care Emergency" (editorial, Jan. 2) does not give a political and economic context to this crisis, which is inexorably bound up with the failure of almost all other institutions in post-Communist Russia and stems from the application of neoliberal principles in managing the transition to a market economy. 
 The "shock therapy" administered to cure the ills of the Communist regime instead killed the patient. 
As the economy declined dramatically, so, too, did financing for health care -- just as the economic decline was putting ever larger demands on the system.
The only way to reverse Russia's slide into the third world is to reorient the thinking about the proper role of the state in the economy. A strong national health care system, and a strong industrial policy to allow a recovery of growth in the manufacturing sector, is the only long-term solution.

LAWRENCE P. KING
New Haven, Jan. 2, 2001

The writer is an assistant professor of sociology at Yale University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (66%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: KING, LAWRENCE P 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (50%) CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (50%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



165 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Healing in Russia: Grim Prognosis 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "A Fit City Offers Russia a Self-Help Model" (front page, Dec. 31) and a Jan. 2 editorial call attention to rampant alcoholism as a major factor in Russia's health care crisis. 
 In the 1980's, the Soviet-American Conference on Alcoholism, Creating a Sober World and several projects financed by the United States Agency for International Development planted the seeds for alcoholism treatment and prevention in Russia. 
But the money dried up, even though most of the American-trained addiction professionals need continued financial support. 
Some of these professionals in Moscow serve on a team of trainers for a church-based alcoholism prevention project called Opora, which has expanded throughout Russia with 60 support groups in more than 30 locations. It has even been taped to provide a professional training program and school prevention curriculum.

MARY THERESA WEBB
Princeton, N.J., Jan. 2, 2001

The writer is the founder and director of Global Outreach for Addiction Leadership Ministries.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (88%); CURRICULA (87%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



166 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: But Will It Buy Happiness? 

BYLINE:  By Rob Walker; Rob Walker is a contributing writer for Money and Slate.

 BODY:
 THE VIRTUE OF PROSPERITY
Finding Values in an Age
of Techno-Affluence.
By Dinesh D'Souza.
284 pp. New York:
The Free Press. $26.
 The most memorable moment in "Wall Street," a film widely considered to have captured the 1980's money-grubbing zeitgeist, came when the absurdly named bad-guy financier Gordon Gekko delivered his "greed is good" speech. The spirit of more recent times has been somewhat different: it hasn't been Wall Street sharpies who have raked in the dough, it's now said, it's been everyone. Whether that's true or not is another matter, but I do sometimes wonder: If Gordon Gekko were to spring to life now, whom would he find to argue with? 
This problem became acutely apparent a few years ago, after T. J. Rodgers, the C.E.O. of Cypress Semiconductor, received a letter from a nun urging him to add more women and members of minorities to his board. Rodgers famously fired back an angry letter saying such a move could be disastrous in his competitive industry, perhaps endangering his loyal shareholders, and he added that the nun should "get off her moral high horse." Rodgers's bellicose Gekkoism was less interesting than the fact that there have been so few opportunities in recent years to unload it on someone.
But perhaps I'm being unfair, because here is Dinesh D'Souza with a book that purports to wonder if all the great, sloshing wealth creation of the past decade or so has in some way been bad for the American soul. The book's title, "The Virtue of Prosperity," would seem to be a bit of a giveaway as to where D'Souza is going to come down on the question, but let's not get ahead of ourselves. 
Early in the 1990's, D'Souza was one of the best-known conservatives in America, on the strength of his books "Illiberal Education" and "The End of Racism." More recently he wrote a book about Ronald Reagan (he was a domestic policy analyst at the tail end of the Reagan administration) and now holds the title of "research scholar" at the American Enterprise Institute, whose other beneficiaries include Robert Bork, Charles Murray, Newt Gingrich and Lynne Cheney. 
Given this backdrop, the (outside) possibility that D'Souza might, say, condemn capitalism as immoral is the book's great selling point. So he aims to be very scrupulous in his assessment of the situation, positioning himself as an "anthropologist" poking around for answers. The world is changing, he says prudently, "but how? And for better or worse? These are questions we have to figure out." He discovers two tribes, which he labels the Party of Yeah, whose members argue that the great alliance of technology and the stock market is an unqualified boon, and the Party of Nah, whose members have their doubts. The skeptics, D'Souza is careful to add, have some good points. 
On to the evidence. First, D'Souza reminds us that half of American households now have some money in the stock market, and that entrepreneurialism is very popular. Perhaps more to the point, he notes that "techno-capitalism" is creating "the first mass affluent class in world history." Poverty, meanwhile, is "no longer a significant problem in America," since the poor here are so much better off than the poor everywhere else in the world, and are also better off than average Americans were 50 years ago (evidence: 98 percent of the poor have refrigerators). As for the wealth gap, well, the bottom line is that "the prime culprit in causing contemporary social inequality seems to be merit." 
Sure there's some jarring inequality as a result, but as long as the poor get richer along with the rich, and there's no rigid caste system preventing anyone from climbing the ladder of success for purely social reasons, then things are fine. (As an example of how America provides "adequate illusions" of social equality, he notes that fans of, say, the Los Angeles Lakers "can vicariously share in their team's triumphal quest for enduring greatness.") 
Having established what he says are his facts, our anthropologist addresses the underlying philosophical concerns. Maybe greed is good for capitalism, but isn't it a sin? Isn't there something immoral about buying personal jets while others starve? At the very least, isn't there more to life than money? Enter T. J. Rodgers, the nun-baiting, moral-high-horse-eschewing C.E.O., who happens to be an Ayn Rand nut. Rodgers says that the pursuit of personal gain makes successful entrepreneurs better human beings than any public servant because the entrepreneurs (example: himself) create jobs and build shareholder value. This proves to be more or less good enough for D'Souza. And when you think about it -- or when D'Souza thinks about it, anyway -- the rich are actually more virtuous than the poor, since poor people are guilty of the sin of envy, and often steal besides. By Page 187 the verdict is in: thanks in large part to techno-capitalism, the United States today, while not perfect, is "probably the best society that now exists or has ever existed."
So what happened to the Party of Nah in all this? It turns out that the only skeptics D'Souza takes seriously come at the morality-of-prosperity issue from the right. All other perspectives are simply found wanting. Studs Terkel is permitted a quick turn as the crotchety liberal whose ideas may be safely ignored; Kirkpatrick Sale's neo-Luddite arguments are briefly gaped at; and the philosopher Richard Rorty is offhandedly dismissed as "Rip Van Rorty." Well now. Stooping to snide name-calling is no substitute for a real argument, nor is it very becoming of an anthropologist. 
But we knew D'Souza's objectivity was a ruse. The doubts he's addressing are the ones the wealthy have about themselves. By a mass affluent class, for instance, D'Souza seems to mean the 6 million or so households with an annual income of more than $150,000, or about 5 percent of the population. It's not clear why this represents a mass phenomenon, when 30 million Americans living under the poverty line are hardly worth discussing, and 42 million without health insurance can be literally ignored. Besides, if we're going to say that poverty isn't a problem because today's poor are better off than yesterday's, couldn't we just as easily say that poverty hasn't been a problem since the Industrial Revolution got started? And is there anything useful (let alone moral) in that line of thought? 
More crucial to D'Souza's argument is his conclusion that rewards go to those who deserve them. In one passage, D'Souza recounts meeting an unnamed billionaire at a dinner party and finding him to be not particularly bright. He concludes that although the man "did not appear to be smart in the way that we defined the term, he must have a high 'entrepreneurial I.Q.' Judged by his success, he is undoubtedly very good at what he does." In other words, we can confirm that successful people deserve their success by observing that they are successful.
But even if you buy that, does it follow that the successful need not give a damn about anyone else? It's not a trivial question in a discussion of virtue. D'Souza's misgivings finally surface in the book's last few chapters, in which he frets about the implications of what he sees as the techno-economy's next step, into the "posthuman" world of smart robots and custom genes and so on. Obviously he doesn't want the government to get involved, so he closes by imploring the techno-overclass to "resist the temptation to arrogance" that might cause all this wizardry to undermine our humanity. 
That seems like a reasonable sentiment, and to be fair there are plenty of reasonable sentiments in the book. One needn't argue that capitalism has been bad for America. But what is puzzling is that capitalists who are so ruthless about improving the quality of their companies -- only the paranoid survive, you know -- are so ambivalent about improving the quality of their country. If the successful capitalist is always engaged in the act of making things better, of raising standards, of never accepting the status quo, why then express satisfaction that the poor have refrigerators? 
Daniel Patrick Moynihan once gave a clever name to the process by which a culture, little by little, learns to tolerate more and more socially destructive behavior. He called it "defining deviancy down." Whatever D'Souza's intentions in "The Virtue of Prosperity," the book is mostly going to serve to define greed up: it's essentially an elegant rationale for members of his mass affluent class to continue not worrying very much about anyone else. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ray Bartkus) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CONSERVATISM (73%); LITERATURE (69%); WRITERS (69%); RACE & RACISM (60%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (51%)

PERSON: T J RODGERS (72%); RONALD REAGAN (50%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%) WALKER, ROB; D'SOUZA, DINESH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: VIRTUE OF PROSPERITY, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



167 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1698 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Costs Rise, but Not the Electric Bill. How? 

BYLINE:  By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
CAUGHT between sharply higher fuel costs and its commitment to maintain an average 20 percent reduction in electric bills, the Long Island Power Authority is looking for some way, any way, to avoid inflaming customers with higher charges.
 Now in its third year as Long Island's power provider, LIPA has been hammered by soaring oil and natural gas prices, as have power providers nationwide. LIPA paid about $250 million in added costs last year to buy electricity from the KeySpan Energy Corporation, which owns generating stations of the former Long Island Lighting Company, and for power purchased off Long Island. Another increase of nearly $250 million is predicted this year. 
 Other utilities and energy companies have passed the higher fuel costs to customers, leading to astronomical increases in California and several other states and sharp increases in the bills of New York utilities, including Consolidated Edison. 
Long Island customers, spared a monthly surcharge of up to 10 percent that LIPA could have begun collecting as recently as New Year's Day, have paid not a dime.
By state law, LIPA may at the beginning of each year pass along to customers the higher fuel costs it paid in the preceding year. Passing along the $250 million in above-budget fuel costs for 2000 would mean an increase in customer bills of about 10 percent, according to LIPA.
Yet in December, when LIPA adopted its 2001 budget, there was no mention of a plan to recoup these higher costs. Instead, Richard M. Kessel, the authority chairman, announced that the budget still preserved LIPA's 20 percent Island-wide rate reduction, while providing $241.9 million for capital improvements, up 17 percent from 2000.
Mr. Kessel said last week that customers would remain insulated for at least three more months and possibly longer, and would never be asked to pay the full amount they could be charged. How LIPA would manage this, he said, was still under study.
Some analysts said last week that deferred, discounted or uncollected fuel paybacks could come at the cost of a slower and ultimately more costly repayment of the more than $4 billion debt LIPA took on for the defunct Shoreham nuclear power plant. LIPA's debt is currently about $7.5 billion.
Other analysts said LIPA would have to borrow to cover the unpaid costs or perhaps dip into surplus accounts that some critics said it had collected with a secret surcharge.
"Instead of facing the facts and telling the public the truth about the higher costs, LIPA is going to try to come up with some kind of creative financing scheme which is going to hurt ratepayers," said Gordian Raacke, the president of the Citizens Advisory Panel, an authority watchdog.
Mr. Kessel, who has denied there is a secret surcharge, said several options were being explored. "Obviously we will leave no stone unturned in trying to find ways to either not pass along these costs or to limit them as much as possible," he said. "We haven't made a decision yet."
He said options included a limited slowdown in repayment of the Shoreham debt, the use of a portion of a $250 million rate stabilization fund and the use of $25 to $30 million reflecting low fuel costs in 1998. He said there were other options he would not discuss. 
He said one approach the authority would not use involved refinancing of 16-year bonds with 30-year bonds, which would reverse a step taken to lower interest payments on the Shoreham debt.
Mr. Kessel said a surcharge to recover fuel costs would not be an increase in the electric rate, and therefore posed no threat to the average 20 percent rate reduction. He acknowledged that avoiding partly passing along fuel costs would be difficult.
Mr. Raacke said the distinction between a fuel-cost surcharge and higher rates was apt to be lost on consumers. "People are going to feel it's an increase in their bills, and that's what it is regardless of the semantics," he said.
The rate of fuel consumption is nowhere more evident than at KeySpan's large Northport plant, a four-unit, 1,448-megawatt electric generating station fueled by oil and natural gas. The plant consumes 40,000 barrels of No. 6 oil on an average winter day, and more when demand soars as it has this winter. LIPA reported a winter peak record of 3,106 megawatts on Dec. 26.
In addition to the Northport power station, KeySpan owns and operates former Lilco generating stations in Island Park, Far Rockaway, Glenwood Landing and Port Jefferson, and smaller generators in various locations. They account for about three-quarters of the power reaching Long Island customers over a transmission system now owned by LIPA.
The authority's 15-year contract with KeySpan gives it the right to buy all the power the plants produce and shields the authority from price increases on the competitive market, where demand has driven wholesale prices to levels higher than increased fuel costs alone would account for.
Bert J. Cunningham, the authority's vice president for communications, said electric supply was not a problem this winter. "So far supply is O.K.," he said. "But the fuel costs have just escalated beyond anyone's expectation."
Even holiday lighting was adding to fuel use. Mr. Cunningham said the authority estimated that the lights could account for up to 1 percent of daily electric use, almost equal to the output of a small generator. In California, another estimate showed, holiday lights consumed 1,400 megawatts a day, or enough electricity for a million homes.
The authority forecasts it will sell 18,430,048-megawatt hours of electricity in 2001, a 2.7 percent increase over last year. Residential customers would account for 43 percent of revenues, and industrial and commercial users for 41 percent. The remaining 16 percent would be from other sources, the authority said.
Mr. Kessel said the authority was striving to avoid imposing the higher fuel costs on customers who were already feeling the impact of oil and gas increases in heating bills and at gasoline pumps. He said any plans it devised would be the subject of public hearings.
He rejected accusations that the authority was not being forthright about the need to pass on some of the fuel costs.
"What we are looking for are innovative ways to minimize the economic impact on customers, and for that I think we deserve credit," he said. "Are they calling on us to pass along the whole thing right now? That's absolutely shocking for a group that pretends to represent consumers."
Mr. Kessel also dismissed Mr. Raacke's contention that the fuel cost pass-along for the previous year had to be imposed as of Jan. 1 of the following year.
Mr. Raacke was not alone in his concerns about how the authority was trying to buffer customers.
David Bodek, a director at Standard & Poor's, the Wall Street rating agency, said the authority was running out of time to deal with the pass-along issue. "For the time being they have a little bit of wiggle room, but that doesn't last forever," he said.
"The cushion is there insofar as they are using the money that would have been applied to accelerate the payment of the Shoreham-related debt to absorb the higher-than-expected fuel costs," said Mr. Bodek, a utilities specialist. "While that is fine for the short term, in the long term they need to recover those fuel costs, which would mean they either cut expenses or recover the fuel costs from customers. And the question is, to what extent can they cut costs when a lot of the costs are fixed obligations to purchase energy from KeySpan."
In an analysis of the authority budget done for Mr. Raacke's group, Scott J. Rubin, a lawyer and consultant from Selinsgrove, Pa., said that reluctance to pass along fuel costs for what he termed were "political reasons" was "the item of greatest concern" for the authority budget.
Mr. Rubin said the authority tariff was "designed to automatically recover cost increases or decreases in these costs." Passing along higher costs, he said, was important to "encourage customers to make efficient decisions about electricity consumption and the need for conservation."
Mr. Rubin said he was also troubled by "LIPA's increasing use of debt to fund all of its construction activities." In 2001, he said, the authority "also appears to be raising additional funds over and above those needed for construction.
"With debt increases of this magnitude, the rate freeze is simply an illusion," he said. "Future rates will need to increase by ever-increasing amounts to repay the substantial levels of debt that are being accumulated."
The analysis also noted that the proposed budget included salary increases that brought the average pay and benefits for the 73 authority employees to $105,000, or to $123,000 when other employee-related expenses were included.
While the authority sets rates and policies, KeySpan, which employs former Lilco employees, carries out the day-to-day management of the electricity generation and distribution. 
Paul Sabatino, the counsel to the Suffolk County Legislature and a critic of LIPA, said the authority appeared to be bent on avoiding increases that would trigger a review by the State Public Service Commission or impinge on a condition that it would reduce rates by at least 14 percent for five years or more.
Rate reductions were the cornerstone of Gov. George Pataki's plan under which the authority, a state agency, carried out a partial state takeover of Lilco, which then merged with Brooklyn Union to form KeySpan. The reduction resulted from refinancing more than $4 billion in debt for the defunct Shoreham nuclear power plant.
Despite Mr. Kessel's denials, Mr. Sabatino continued to assert that the authority had been collecting more than $135 million annually through an undisclosed 5.1 percent rate surcharge. "The only way they could be absorbing these costs is by tapping into that money," he said.
Any decision to increase its debt burden through new borrowing to avoid passing along the higher fuel costs would be misguided, Mr. Sabatino said. "That's like a Nassau County deal where you just stretch out the payments," he said. He also warned against "the kind of innovative, creative Wall Street financing that got Nassau in trouble."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard M. Kessel, chairman of the Long Island Power Authority. (Kevin P. Coughlin for The New York Times); KeySpan's Northport plant, which consumes 40,000 barrels of No. 6 oil on an average winter day, is a four-unit, 1,448-megawatt electric generating station. LIPA is looking for ways to handle higher fuel costs without passing them to the consumer. (Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 9) Graph: "Price Surge"Fuel prices paid by Long Island Power Authority to generate electric power. Graph tracks oil, per barrel and gas, per decatherm since 1999.(Source: Long Island Power Authority)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); UTILITY RATES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (93%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (58%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (93%); NG (LSE) (93%); ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (93%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (93%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%) SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



168 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: A Millennium Worthy Of the Angst Is Dawning; 
Political Upheaval And Extreme Football

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
With the benefit of hindsight, it is finally safe to declare that the world did not come to an end in the year 2000. The apocalyptic prophecies, the threats of terrorism, the warnings of catastrophic computer bugs all came to naught. But perhaps all the millennial hype was just a year early after all.
 Perhaps this is to be the year of dramatic change, uncertainty and anxiety that failed to take root last year. Maybe those sticklers who reminded people that 2001, and not 2000, marked the real beginning of the new millennium (with about as much success as the purists who tell New Yorkers that there is no such thing as Sixth Avenue) were right all along. 
 Anxiety is in the air. The stock market has been gyrating wildly, and fears abound that the go-go economy may be gone. The political landscape is being transformed. Oil prices are way up. Violence has broken out anew in the Middle East. And if the disputed presidential election did not produce a constitutional crisis, it certainly produced a crisis of confidence in the nation's voting process and, for some, its judiciary. 
"It all feels much more turbulent, much more millennial," said Marshall Blonsky, a semiotician and a professor of interactive telecommunications at New York University. "One of the things a millennium is supposed to be about is millennial anxiety. Last year that anxiety was mostly nonexistent, except imaginarily -- a Y2K crisis that didn't materialize, Hollywood movies about meteors about to hit the earth. This year there's real tumult."
There are fears that the failures of Silicon Alley and the jitters of Wall Street could reverberate throughout the region.
And the political world is in flux. A new presidential administration and a new party are taking power in Washington, and, closer to home, New York and New Jersey have just elected new United States senators. New Jersey is also getting ready to seat an acting governor to replace Christie Whitman, who is preparing to head the Environmental Protection Agency in Washington.
In New York City, the municipal government is about to be shaken from top to bottom. Voters will not only choose Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's successor this year, but, because of term limits that are taking effect, they will also elect a new public advocate, a new comptroller and new borough presidents in four boroughs. They will replace 36 of the 51 members of the City Council, and that body, whatever it may look like, will choose its new, powerful speaker.
"In January of 2000, we kind of knew what the end of 2000 would look like in local politics, but right now I think people haven't even an inkling of what the end of 2001 will be like," said Norman Adler, a political consultant. "It could be the kind of millennium that some of those guys with long beards and signs warn about when they walk around Times Square: 'The End Is Near.' Maybe now you would want that sign, with a question mark at the end."
And the effects will be felt keenly on the macro level, with questions about what a post-Giuliani era will be like, and on a micro level, as local political organizations are altered, said Mitchell L. Moss, the director of the Taub Urban Research Center at New York University. 
"2001 marks the end of the Molinari dynasty, which has been driving Staten Island politics for more than a quarter of a century," he said, referring to the coming retirement of Guy V. Molinari, the powerful borough president.
In New Jersey, Governor Whitman's coming departure has changed all political equations and given a boost to the ambitions of Donald T. DiFrancesco, the Senate president, who will replace her as acting governor.
On top of that, the political map is about to be redrawn. Because the new census shows that the region's population did not grow as rapidly as those of the South and the West, New York will lose 2 of its 31 seats in the House of Representatives, and Connecticut will lose 1 of its 6. The remaining districts will be redrawn in abstract squiggles worthy of a Miro.
And it is far from clear what kind of economy the new leaders taking office will inherit. Leaders from President-elect George W. Bush to Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, have expressed their concerns. The stock market no longer seems to be the sure thing it was promoted as not so long ago. And the idea of the new economy seems very old indeed right about now.
Gone is the faith that investors had in high-tech stocks just a year ago, the notion that Manhattan real estate and luxury beach houses will continue to climb in price exponentially, the idea that money is limitless.
One symbol of the dashed dreams is Pets.com, the Internet pet supplies retailer whose sock puppet mascot became something of a cult figure, making very expensive appearances as a float in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade and in a Super Bowl commercial. When the company decided to close in November after going through millions upon millions of dollars of start-up money, company officials decided that one of their most valuable assets was the sock puppet and considered offers to buy the rights to it.
"People have been talking about change coming for some time now, but I think change is here now," said Paul A. Bernard, an executive coach and organizational design consultant who advises many businesses based in New York. "There is a high level of anxiety that is almost contagious."
He painted a picture of flailing dot-com businesses running through money too fast, heavy with young, untested vice presidents who have never weathered crises; of more senior executives who are regretting their decisions to jump from old, established companies to Internet start-ups; of a ripple effect that the closed businesses and the layoffs are beginning to have across the economy.
"I don't think there's going to be a Great Depression, but it's going to feel like 1931 to people because we've lived as if there are no risks in the future," Mr. Bernard said. "Now people are realizing that the risk is real. Law firms that staffed up dramatically and signed on for lots of real estate now find that their dot-com clients have gone belly up and they haven't collected fees that were due six months ago."
He warned that many people, like companies, have been pressured into living beyond their means. "This will have huge social ramifications," he said. "It will be interesting when these people cannot pay their bills."
And there are strange and possibly ominous things afoot culturally. Consider that when Rolling Stone magazine and MTV ranked the 100 greatest pop songs, they placed a song called "I Want It That Way" by the Backstreet Boys in the top 10, ahead of songs by the Supremes, Bob Dylan, Stevie Wonder and the Who.
Or the $252 million contract awarded to Alex Rodriguez, a baseball player, which makes him more valuable than several entire teams.
Or, in the bread-and-circus, decline-and-fall department, the World Wrestling Federation is starting its own football league on the premise that professional football as it now exists is not violent enough.
Strange days, indeed.
Of course, there have been economic downturns, transfers of power and bizarre pop culture explosions in the past without dire consequences. Professor Blonsky, the semiotician, said it was simply the confluence of all the unsettled events with the changing of the calendar that lead people to ascribe millennial properties to otherwise common events.
But some people see the change in the last year as a sad commentary on what might have been. "It is as if something was nipped in the bud, as if this desire to be part of a generation that will transform the world was nipped in the bud," lamented Richard Landes, the director of the Center for Millennial Studies at Boston University. "The wind has changed, and it's cold."
Professor Landes has his own Y2K problem now: his center has financing for only two more years. "If I just had $36 for every time that someone asked me what I was going to do now that the millennium is over, I would be funded," he said, adding that there was still work to be done in understanding the significance of what has just happened.
Others play down any significance ascribed to the alignments of the stars or the calendar. "I don't care whether it's the faux millennium of a year ago or the real millennium of a few days ago," said Edward I. Koch, New York's former mayor. "I just get up every morning and say, 'Thank you, God.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILLENNIUM (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (86%); CITIES (85%); TERRORISM (77%); POLITICS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); TERM LIMITS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); MAYORS (72%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); GOVERNORS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (61%); FILM (50%) TWO THOUSAND ONE (YEAR) 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (54%) COOPER, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



169 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 5; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Graduates; 
Saying No to Public Service

BYLINE:  By Richard Brand; Richard Brand, president of the University Press Club at Princeton, has reported from Europe and South America.

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J. 

 BODY:
Robert L. Hutchings, who as a member of the National Security Council and as ambassador at large to Eastern Europe had the ear of Presidents Ronald Reagan, George Bush and Bill Clinton, has one of the most difficult jobs in academia today.
 As assistant dean of the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton, Mr. Hutchings's goal is to place graduates in public service jobs, and that means persuading them to refuse six-figure offers from investment banks and consulting firms in favor of the standard $32,500 offered by the State Department and other federal agencies. 
 That is tough, not only because the pay is low, but also because in the post-cold-war era, diplomacy and government work have lost much of their luster. Also, graduate students who have seen their college classmates reach vice presidencies within a few years at private companies know that it is practically impossible to ascend as quickly through government ranks. It can take up to two years before a candidate for the Foreign Service who passes the exams and gains security clearance is invited to join. 
Because of the changes brought by a new job market, many of the policy schools that once sent an overwhelming majority of their graduating classes into government work are now redefining their public service mission. But as more public policy students choose careers in the private sector, policy school administrators are becoming bitterly divided.
Deans at several elite programs, like the Woodrow Wilson School and the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, have expanded their definition of public service to include work at nonprofit organizations. But they are troubled that, even so, up to 40 percent of their classes take jobs with private companies.
"I worry that some of our best and brightest choose not to go into the State Department or other federal jobs," Mr. Hutchings said. "We take seriously the public service mission of our school. We have no quarrel with people who want to pursue private sector careers, but we discourage them from coming here in the first place, because that's not what we do."
Joseph S. Nye, a former Assistant Secretary of Defense and the dean of the Kennedy School, where 800 students are pursuing master's degrees, agrees. "The Kennedy school defines its mission as training public leaders," he said. "The area of concern is that the younger American students who would have previously gone into government are less likely to go into government today."
Private companies and many nongovernmental organizations like the Red Cross offer jobs that students believe have more power and prestige in the new global economy, he said, adding, "I think the government is going to have to make major efforts to make their careers more attractive."
"Part of that is financial, and the other part is the challenges presented to students," Mr. Nye said. "A lot of students are idealistic, and they will take a job for less money, but only if they think they can do something more interesting."
In contrast, deans at some other policy schools encourage their students to take jobs at private companies.
Louis W. Goodman, dean of the School of International Service at the American University in Washington, for example, says that students can often be more effective by working for private companies and "doing pro bono work." American is the largest international affairs school in the country with 2,300 students, and today only 15 to 20 percent go into the public sector, while a quarter go into other forms of public service. "When S.I.S was founded in the late 1950's, 85 percent of our students went to work in the public sector ," Dean Goodman said. 
According to the Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs, in 1998, the most recent year for which complete statistics are available, fewer than 35 percent of policy school graduates took government jobs, and 19 percent took jobs with nongovernmental organizations. Nearly 40 percent accepted offers from private companies.
Thirty years ago, nearly all policy school students went straight to work for the government, Marcus Grundahl, the association's director said, adding that several policy schools now are "competing with M.B.A. programs" for students.
"There has just been a complete revolution in the nature of public service and how it's been defined since the 1960's," said Prof. Jeffrey Herbst, a specialist in African affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School. Twenty-five years ago, he said, students interested in privatization in Africa may have worked for the Agency for International Development. "Now they work for a major accounting firm, let's say Arthur Andersen, which has a contract with the Zambian government to work on privatization," he said. 
Monica Inzaina, 23, is about to complete a two-year master's degree in international communications at the School of International Service. She said she had always wanted to work for the government abroad.
A native of Colonial Heights, Va., Ms. Inzaina speaks three languages, gets top grades and was an intern last summer at the State Department. The job was "an incredible experience," she said. 
But Ms. Inzaina now says she would be surprised if she took a government job. "The posts you get are not that good," she said. "You're not going to end up in Rome or Paris until you've done your duty in the world." Now she is interviewing with several companies, including Cisco Systems. Ms. Inzaina added that her plans to get married factored into her decision.
"I definitely have student loans in the back of my mind, and the thought of dragging somebody else through my debt is unacceptable," she said. "I want to give back to the community, but I think there are different ways to give back."
Lisa Anderson, dean of the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia, which encourages recruitment on campus by private companies as early as October, empathizes with student like Ms. Inzaina
"For 20 years, young people have heard politicians and government leaders talk about the virtues of the private sector," Dean Anderson said. "That students are not going to work for the government does not mean they aren't working for the public good. Many see the private sector as an essential tool in the development of the third world."
Dean Hutchings of Princeton disagrees, saying that many of the students who enrolled at policy schools as idealists leave as pragmatists with high-paying private-sector jobs, encouraged by their schools to do so.
"A lot of other public policy schools, I must say, have simply redefined their mission in light of the new job market and the changing nature of the way students enter their careers," Dean Hutchings said. "When they place people with private sector consulting firms or work in private industries, they consider it a great success. We consider that we've missed somewhere if that's the case."
THE Woodrow Wilson School sent 75 percent of its graduates to work for governments or nonprofit organizations last year, more than any other school in the country. Dean Hutchings attributes the school's placements to an emphasis on policy training and to financial assistance programs that enable students to leave without crushing student loan debts. At the Kennedy School approximately 70 percent went into public service, while Columbia's program sent less than half of its class into public service last year, according to figures from the schools.
Before enrolling as one of 300 students at the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia, Sandra Steyskal, a 28-year-old Stockholm native, spent three years working around the world for Orbis International, a nonprofit organization in New York dedicated to preventing blindness worldwide.
"I came to Columbia, because I wanted to increase my credentials and experience in building and designing humanitarian assistance and development programs," she said. Nevertheless, she said, she has since had job interviews with a leading bank. 
"There are a lot of people like myself who came certain that they would enter the public sector and then become interested in working in the private sector," Ms. Steyskal said. Like many other policy school students, she says she expects to move between private and nonprofit jobs in her career.
Professor Herbst cited "the downsizing of government," as a big factor in students' rush into the private sector. "It's not just that they're banging on the doors of federal bureaucracies and not being let in," he said. "Many people don't even bang on the doors, because they assume correctly that there are no positions available." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY; PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); RONALD REAGAN (72%) HUTCHINGS, ROBERT L; BRAND, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



170 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS & INVESTING: DIARY; 
Step 1: Grit Teeth. Step 2: Buy Junk Bonds.

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
ARE returns on high-yield bonds, now nearly 15 percent, an indication that junk has become too junky to justify responsible investment? Or do they represent a lush opportunity that arises only a few times in a bond buyer's lifetime?
 Either shunning obvious risk or embracing it may prove a big mistake. But if professional advice counts for much, the odds these days favor those who grit their teeth in the face of possible recession and consider buying shares of a high-yield fund. 
 "There is really a very interesting value for investors, something that happens once a decade," said Jack Malvey, chief global fixed-income strategist at Lehman Brothers. "I'm thinking about it for myself." 
After a year when funds that invested in United States Treasury issues gained 17 percent and high-grade corporate bonds gained about 10 percent, junk bonds do not look inviting: They fell nearly 10 percent and now trade at an average of about 78 cents on the dollar.
Indeed, junk has not delivered double-digit returns since 1997; it registered a tiny loss in 1998 and rose 4.8 percent in 1999 -- all during a period when stocks had gains of more than 20 percent a year.
The junk-bond default rate, meanwhile, was 5.4 percent for the 12 months through November 2000, Moody's said. As of mid-December, according to Merrill Lynch, 32.8 percent of high-yield debt was considered distressed -- with yields at least 10 percentage points higher than the rate for long-maturity Treasuries. That was the biggest percentage since March 1994. And despite the interest rate cut engineered last week by the Federal Reserve, some economists still say the economy may tip into recession.
As junk-bond prices sink and defaults rise, trading or even valuing them can become more difficult. Even high-yield municipals are vulnerable. In October, Heartland Advisors of Milwaukee said that the combined assets in two high-yield municipal funds it managed had shriveled to $58 million from $120 million in a single day because of a change in valuation methods. The news was a lesson in the hazards of speculative securities, particularly the lack of liquidity of smaller, unrated issues and the difficulty of pricing them. 
"There are a huge number of debt problems sitting around the United States," said Henry Kaufman, the veteran Wall Street economist, referring to growing distress among borrowers of all sorts. Between high-quality and junk bonds, he said, "spreads may widen still further." 
Increasingly last year, said Martin S. Fridson, chief high-yield strategist at Merrill Lynch, bank lenders tightened standards, squeezing the weaker borrowers. Telecommunications junk was the weakest performer, as companies borrowed heavily to build new systems. Energy, supported by high oil and natural-gas prices, was the strongest.
Despite those risks, there are counterbalancing reasons to try junk: junk yields that now average nearly 14 percent, compared with 4.92 percent for the bellwether 10-year Treasury bond, a spread that implies a level of casualties far exceeding historical norms.
The record default rate, reached during a recession and a junk-bond market collapse in 1991, was 10 percent. "The high-yield market is forecasting a 13 percent default rate, which has never occurred and is not going to happen," said James T. Swanson, a manager of bond portfolios at MFS Investment Management in Boston. Except for some lurking disasters among telecommunications companies -- some of whose bonds could become worthless, he predicted -- most of the damage has already occurred, as the current depressed prices reflect.
In fact, the bullish argument goes, the standard comparison with Treasury bonds overstates the distress among junk-bond issuers. Treasury yields have been depressed, perhaps artificially, by huge government surpluses and the aggressive retirement of long-term debt. The increasingly scarce 30-year bond, for example, currently yields no more than the two-year note; the normal yield curve would have the long bond yielding substantially more in return for its longer risks. 
JUNK-BOND enthusiasm has even spread to William H. Miller III, chief executive of Legg Mason Funds Management in Baltimore and a historically successful stock picker. He defines junk bonds as one of the market's unusual bargains. "I think this is where there is easy money to be made," he told a symposium last month. 
Regardless of market prospects, specialists are almost unanimous in advising individual investors to stick either to standard mutual funds or to closed-end funds, instead of buying individual junk bonds. The closed-end funds often sell at handsome discounts to the market value of their bonds. They can be managed without the risk that investor redemptions will force the abrupt liquidation of bonds that are hard to sell.
Burton J. Greenwald, a fund consultant in Philadelphia, said investors ought to consider bond funds, including junk funds, instead of automatically putting their money into stocks. "Everybody seems to agree you're about to see lower rates and a slower economy," he said. Dips in stock prices can no longer be confidently seen as a chance to pick up stock bargains, he said, but will become a spur to look at alternatives.
But he and others fret that unsophisticated investors may be unduly impressed by the low prices of junk bonds and the correspondingly high yields. "Some may be seduced," Mr. Greenwald said. He urged investors to remember that advertised fund yields are for past, not future, returns, and that junk bonds pose risks more like those of equities than of high-quality bonds.
Moreover, unlike an individual bond that an investor can choose to hold to maturity and have all his principal returned, decisions in junk funds are in the hands of portfolio managers whose actions, for good or ill, may have unfavorable tax consequences. "There is no par value" in a fund, Mr. Greenwald observed.
The danger of buying funds on the basis of advertised yield alone was underscored by Mark McCray, senior vice president and a bond fund manager for Pimco Advisors. "Sophisticated fixed-income investors understand that both income and price performance make up the return on an investment, while individuals fixating on the yield axis only may fail to account for the risks they are taking," he said. "When the net asset value of a fund drops precipitously, whatever incremental yield investors were getting is obliterated by the negative price performance."
But given those cautions, most analysts say 2001 may be a fine year for high-yield bonds, especially if the Fed's interest rate cut last weekhelps to head off a recession. Mr. Fridson of Merrill Lynch projected that the risk-free 10-year Treasury bond would return 5.46 percent this year and that junk would outperform it by 8.87 percentage points, for a return of 14.33 percent.
Though sizable gains may not occur for awhile even with the Fed rate cut, he said: "This is an awfully good opportunity. These bonds are just too cheap."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "High Yields, High Anxiety"The flight of investors from the junk-bond market last year drove up yields on bonds to nearly 9 percentage points higher than yields on comparable Treasury securities. Junk-bond issuance has fallen rapidly since 1998. Chart shows spread between the yields on junk bonds and Treasuries since Jan. 2000.Chart shows junk bond inssuance since 1990.(Source: Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (93%); BONDS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); RECESSION (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH BANK & TRUST CO (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



171 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1034 words

PERSON: VINCENT BOLLORE 

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR; 
Raiding French Banking's Citadel

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
VINCENT BOLLORE is known in France as a capitalist who began without capital, a quiet but audacious deal maker and corporate raider who grew with other people's money, borrowing to buy low, sell high, repay debts and still have plenty left. 
 But Mr. Bollore's audacity in choosing his most recent corporate target, the venerable French bank Lazard Freres, got him noticed far beyond the small club of corporate raiders in France. Mr. Bollore, 48, rattled one of the most recognized names in investment banking and walked away with more than double the money he put into the effort. 
 "He gave an electric shock to an investment bank that was in decline," said Sophie L'Helias, a French lawyer who knows him. 
Over several months last year, Mr. Bollore (pronounced bo-lo-RAY) paid about $250 million to buy 31 percent of Rue Imperiale de Lyon, a French holding company that controls more than 17 percent of Lazard, which in turn owns about $12 billion worth of assets in a range of other companies. 
The struggle was watched with the intensity of a grand chess contest, not least by minority shareholders in the cascade of companies that, like Chinese boxes one inside the other, controlled the Lazard assets. 
On one side was Mr. Bollore, who had assembled a $4 billion portfolio of shipping, manufacturing and tobacco interests. On the other, the patrician French financier Michel David-Weill, 67, whose grip on the holding companies controlled the fortunes of Lazard. 
As Mr. Bollore saw it, investment banking in Europe was booming, but Lazard was not. He had allies among Lazard's minority investors, who did not want Lazard's decline to come at their expense. At stake for them was the value of holdings in several companies within the Lazard galaxy. They wanted Lazard to increase the value of their investment through share buybacks. Under Mr. David-Weill, Lazard resisted.
In late November, Mr. Bollore surprised the financial world and sold his stake to the French bank Credit Agricole for $270 million more than what he paid. Yes, Mr. David-Weill was rid of a pesky interloper, but the deal made Credit Agricole a powerful Lazard shareholder, and the price it had paid heartened minority shareholders by implying a hefty premium for all shares in the Lazard galaxy of companies.
And investors in Lazard companies, including some in the United States, saw the value of their shares surge by more than half -- in the throes of a bear market.
Mr. Bollore said he got everything he wanted in the Lazard struggle. In an interview, he said that if he could jar lethargic French corporations, all the better. "I like pushing people to move a little," he said. "In France, we are poor at this."
Mr. Bollore, the son of a struggling paper maker in Brittany, left his family's business as a youth to work at a Paris investment bank and study law at night. Later, he worked at the prestigious Compagnie Financiere Rothschild. 
When the family business was failing in the 1970's, Mr. Bollore, then in his 20's, persuaded Edmond de Rothschild to acquire a controlling stake. The enterprise continued to lose money, and in 1981, when Mr. Bollore offered to take it off Mr. Rothschild's hands for one symbolic franc, today about 15 cents, the deal was accepted. After expanding the company geographically, Mr. Bollore amassed an empire by taking minority stakes in other companies, turning them around and acquiring control or selling them.
Along the way, he forged some lasting friendships. A family friend and early adviser was Antoine Bernheim, the Lazard partner who stood by his side with advice during the struggle with Mr. David-Weill. Mr. Bernheim is deputy chairman of the Bollore group. 
Mr. Bollore also formed close ties to Claude Bebear, former chairman of the big AXA insurance group and an arbiter of French finance.
By the 1990's, Mr. Bollore had graduated to bigger deals. In 1991, with the help of AXA and the big French bank Credit Lyonnais, he took control of Delmas-Vieljeux, a major shipping group with important routes to Africa. 
Many of his coups illustrate the priority of business over personal ties. In 1996, he acquired control of Groupe Rivaud, a financial conglomerate, despite the resistance of Rivaud's chairman, Edouard de Ribes, a boyhood friend of Mr. Bollore's father.
Even when Mr. Bollore has not gotten his way, he has usually come out ahead financially. In 1998, he started a yearlong battle for control of Bouygues, the huge construction group that had branched out into television and wireless phone services. Mr. Bollore lost, but not before pocketing $215 million from the sale of his stake. Almost immediately, he began acquiring shares in the French film company Pathe, alarming its chairman, Jerome Seydoux. A month later, in January 1999, Mr. Bollore sold his stake, pocketing $115 million.
Mr. Bollore brings with him a keen understanding of how French business works, and he shrewdly deploys his windfalls to strengthen his industrial empire. That has needed strengthening lately, for while the cigarette business he controls in Africa remains profitable, his shipping lines have come under pressure from a price war started by Maersk, the Danish shipping giant.
Like many of his targets, Mr. Bollore has used interconnected holding companies to control the family business. His goal, however, is to combine those companies into one within four or five years, while assuring his family keeps a 51 percent controlling stake.
Investors like the results of his efforts so far. Last year, shares in Bollore Investissement, the principal holding company, gained more than 7 percent, against a weak French stock market.
An avid yachtsman, skier, tennis player and comic-book collector, Mr. Bollore is married and a father of four. His corporate raids, he said, raise capital for growth, without trips to the stock market that would dilute family control. The raids, he said, would continue.
"It's easier, of course, when the market is bullish, and harder when it's going down," he said. Then, with a boyish grin, he said: "Normally, we go where other people don't dare, or don't think about. With Bouygues, no one dared; with Pathe, no one thought of it. With Lazard, it was both."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vincent Bollore has grown rich as a corporate raider, often despite the opposition of the French business establishment. (Bruno Delessard/Le Nouvel Economiste) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (66%); PAPER MILLS (65%); PAPER MFG (65%); INTERVIEWS (60%) BANKS AND BANKING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: BOLLORE SA (92%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (85%); RUE IMPERIALE DE LYON (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LAZARD FRERES & CO 

TICKER: BOL (PAR) (92%); ACA (PAR) (85%); ACA (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (56%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

VINCENT BOLLORE (92%) BOLLORE, VINCENT; TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LYON, FRANCE (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (73%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



172 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: California's Power Woes 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "The Market Flaw California Overlooked," by Steven Stoft (Op-Ed, Jan. 2): 
 California's generating resources are insufficient to supply its power demands at comfortable prices, a result of the longstanding unwillingness of California regulators to permit construction of new generating capacity at adequate levels of cost recovery. 
Instead, they placed their trust in the ability of "demand side management" programs (like free water heater wraps) and electric appliance efficiency standards to produce "negawatts," thus obviating the need for new generating units.
Now that California needs them, the hoped-for negawatts are nowhere to be found. And the power price caps recommended by Mr. Stoft would only continue, by new means, California's failed policy of discouraging new power supply.

MARK F. MORSS
Columbus, Ohio, Jan. 3, 2001

The writer is an economist, American Electric Power Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (88%); DEREGULATION (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (90%)

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%)

PERSON: MORSS, MARK F 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (91%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



173 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
The High-Stakes Politics Of Spending the Surplus

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT-ELECT GEORGE W. BUSH spent much of last week building support for his tax-cut plan, meeting here with like-minded business executives and asserting that a dose of fiscal stimulus would neatly complement the Federal Reserve's surprise interest rate reduction in the effort to reverse the economy's downturn.
 But while the incoming administration and its allies in Congress were busy peddling the $1.6 trillion tax cut as anti-recession insurance, conservatives also had their eyes on an even bigger ideological prize. 
 Their goal is not just to put the growing federal budget surplus to use on their terms. It is to return the government to the days when every initiative had to be weighed against keeping the budget balanced. By getting the surplus out of Washington via a tax cut, they hope to check what they acknowledge is a bipartisan impulse to spend any money that is put on the table. 
"Starve the beast," said one prominent conservative.
Should Mr. Bush succeed in pushing through a tax cut similar to the one he has proposed, he would wipe out a good portion of the projected surplus. And if his own calls for increased spending for the military, education and prescription drug coverage for the elderly are added to the tab, he could eliminate it.
That would put conservatives right where they want to be, having used the surplus to their ends and emerging with a cudgel with which to beat back attempts to use tax revenues for purposes they do not like.
"There's really a two-tiered argument for the tax cut," said Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, a conservative political action committee. "One is the fiscal stimulus, supply-side argument. The other is that it's the best way to stop a spending spree. Tactically, it makes sense to do the tax cut quickly or you won't be able to repel the spending momentum that comes from both sides."
Over the last few years, budget surpluses have grown with each calculation, like a pot of gold that replenishes itself faster than anyone can empty it. But those surpluses have grown only because Washington has been deadlocked by divided government, unable to agree on what to do with the windfall. 
With Republicans in charge both on Capitol Hill and at the White House, that deadlock is probably at an end. Although they will probably have to compromise to get legislation through the evenly divided Senate, it is possible Republicans could end the coming legislative year having claimed for their own most of the money that is on the table for tax cuts and spending. By current estimates, that amounts to something better than $2.5 trillion over the next decade, the portion of the surplus generated outside of Social Security. 
Unless the economy were to get a lot more robust in a hurry, the surplus pot would then be empty for years, perhaps decades, to come.
"You only decide once how to dedicate the surplus," said Jacob J. Lew, the Clinton administration's budget director.
To the extent that Republicans are pressing for tax cuts to keep Democrats from getting their hands on the money, they are bringing back a strategy similar to that used by Ronald Reagan right after he became president in 1981. Mr. Reagan's team very explicitly saw the large tax cut they pushed through as a way of blocking calls for new spending and checking the inexorable expansion of the size and influence of the federal government.
But Mr. Reagan was unable to stop Democrats, or Republicans, from spending more, nor would he pare back his demands for more money for the Pentagon.
"If you look back to the 1981 economic policy, they were creating a squeeze on spending that was supposed to force hard decisions," Mr. Lew said. "It didn't work. We got enormous deficits that spiraled out of control and put the economy in peril."
Like Mr. Reagan, Mr. Bush is promising to get tough on spending. But even under Republican control since 1994, Congress has kept the fiscal floodgates open, and there is now bipartisan agreement on the need to spend more on issues like education and health care.
There are a few big differences between today and the Reagan years. For one, the economic desirability of fiscal responsibility is much more deeply rooted in the political system. For another, even if the entire non-Social Security surplus were to be apportioned, the government would still have a huge buffer in the form of the surplus being generated by Social Security -- more than $2.5 trillion over the next decade.
The two parties have agreed that the Social Security surplus should go only to paying down the national debt or overhauling the retirement system, and not to tax cuts or new spending. Still, the existence of the money would greatly reduce the risk of running up the kinds of deficits that dragged down the economy in the late 1980's and early 1990's.
INDEED, the nation now confronts its needs -- economic, social, military -- from a position of remarkable fiscal strength. Despite the threat of recession, the budget situation that Mr. Bush is inheriting from Bill Clinton is light-years better than the morass of deficits Mr. Clinton inherited from Mr. Bush's father. The fight now is over how to spend the bounty. 
Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform, a conservative research group, said that until the surplus is off the table it will be difficult for conservatives to turn back the expansion of government. Welfare reform, reductions in aid to farmers and the devolution of power over domestic programs to the states only moved ahead after Republicans made balancing the budget their goal in 1995, he said.
"Budget discipline forces the reforms," he said.
Democrats have their own claim to fiscal responsibility through their insistence on reducing the national debt. But they say it is ridiculous to create an atmosphere of restraint when there is a national consensus about the need to address so many issues.
"You can have a fair difference of opinion about priorities," Mr. Lew said, "but it is a bad idea to pretend you can create an environment in which goals that have public support can't be considered."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect George W. Bush emerging from a meeting with Alan Greenspan on the state of the economy. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX RELIEF (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (70%); AGING (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); INTEREST RATES (57%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



174 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Restoration; 
What It Used to Be Just Ain't What It Used to Be

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

 BODY:
THEY'RE back, all those old hands and familiar faces from the reigns of Bush the elder, Ronald Reagan and Gerald R. Ford. All that comfortable expertise that kept the Republicans in the White House throughout the 1980's, prompting the commentator Christopher Matthews to declare it "the Daddy Party," in whose capable hands the nation entrusted the cold war and the economy.
 The word in Washington now is "restoration," as in the return of a ruling family ousted by an angry electorate (in the case of George I in 1992, whose son, George W. Bush, now returns after eight years in the provinces) or a civil war followed by a beheading (in the case of Charles I in 1649, whose son, Charles II, returned to the throne 11 years later). For Republicans, it is a deeply reassuring time, a return to order, to stability, to the way things used to be and should have stayed. 
 Except things aren't what they used to be. Washington has changed during the unruly Clinton years, in ways that may prove unsettling for returning Republicans. It is faster, rougher, more partisan. "I left government in late '83 and returned in '93 and I was stunned by how much of a change had taken place," said David R. Gergen, who served in the Nixon, Ford, Reagan and Clinton administrations. "We entered a new world in the 1990's, politically." 
Congress has become utterly unpredictable -- no longer controlled by the Democrats, but not really controlled by the Republicans either. Even Representative David Dreier of California, an optimistic Bush ally and chairman of the House Rules Committee, acknowledges, "No one has dealt with a situation as close as this."
Policy-making is different, too. Major initiatives -- say, restructuring Medicare as President-elect Bush is proposing -- are now hashed out in the open, amid a barrage of interest group advertising and high-tech lobbying, a legacy of the health-care wars of 1993-94. "Part of Bush's choices, I think, is a longing to go back to the old world -- where seasoned men made the decisions and everybody listened," said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. In recent years, seasoned men seem to have become just one more constituent group.
The old hands on the Bush team were not exactly off in Kazakhstan for the past decade, as Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, put it. Most have stayed involved, in commissions, campaigns or private-sector jobs just barely removed from the public sector. Two come straight from the Senate. But nothing is quite like the intensity of the White House.
The leisurely news cycle of the 1980's is long gone. CNN was a force in the last Bush administration, but the number of media outlets has exploded since then, not to mention the Internet. "It used to be you had to feed the media beast," said S. Robert Lichter, president of the Center for Media and Public Affairs. "Now you have to corral it." Mr. Lichter added, "When some of these guys were last here, the only video game was Pong."
And, of course, the issues have changed. To state the obvious, foreign policy is no longer consumed with managing the cold war, and no single overarching threat has emerged to replace it. A recent report by the intelligence community concluded that global issues like food and water shortages, disease and changes in population will increasingly affect the national security of the United States -- issues requiring a far different mindset than the rivalry of superpowers.
And without the towering threat of the Soviet Union, foreign policy has become more politicized, the old notion of differences "ending at the water's edge" a quaint remnant of another time. 
On the domestic front, one happier change for the Republicans is the existence of a surplus as far as the eye can see. But there's also a slowing economy and a skittish stock market, a matter of immense concern to what has become a nation of stockholders over the past eight years. The domestic agenda, which increasingly reflects an aging society, is complicated -- issues like prescription drugs, Medicare and Social Security -- and particularly hard to deal with during the permanent campaign. Even some of Mr. Bush's allies think he has underestimated how hard it will be to win bipartisan support for a Medicare overhaul with the House up for grabs in 2002.
These difficulties may be obscured, at the moment, by the sweet sense of Restoration in the House of Bush. It is an old story line: the father rejected, the son welcomed back by a regretful nation, avenging old wrongs. Charles I waged a long struggle with Parliament, culminating in civil wars and his own beheading on charges of treason. Parliament's victory led to the rule of Oliver Cromwell. But after his death, the nation turned to Charles II, who returned amid great rejoicing.
The Bush story is, yes, a tad less dramatic. And Kevin Phillips, the political analyst and author of "The Cousins' Wars: Religion, Politics and the Triumph of Anglo-America" (Basic Books, 1999), takes a hard-nosed view of the whole business: "In the sense that restorations always bring back the old crowd, that's one of the handicaps. Their A-team is the same crowd that lost to Jimmy Carter, for Pete's sake."
The adjustments facing the new Bush cabinet can, of course, be overstated. As Mickey Edwards, a former Republican congressman, put it, "It isn't like they just drifted off and came back like Rip Van Winkle." Indeed, some were in on the beginning of the zeitgeist shift, like Gen. Colin L. Powell, who was chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff into the early years of the Clinton administration and fought, in the Persian Gulf war, the first war televised in real time.
"They've adapted too; they grew up in that atmosphere," said Tom Korologos, a longtime Republican lobbyist now helping with the Bush transition. "That's the beauty of the Bush cabinet -- they're all adults. This group can run a government tonight."
But Mr. Phillips scoffs, "They've been off picking the tall cotton in the corporate world, and that gives you a different mindset."
A CLOSE analysis of Bush I may help. Just weeks after the elder Bush took office, dramatically offering his hand to Congressional Democrats in his Inaugural Address, Democrats rejected his nominee for defense secretary, Senator John G. Tower. It was considered a seminal event in the partisan wars that followed -- not least because it triggered Dick Cheney's move to defense, which opened the way for Representative Newt Gingrich of Georgia to win a position in the Republican leadership.
After that, mostly during the Clinton years, came the deluge: a Republican takeover of Congress in 1994, the fall of House speakers, the impeachment of a president, a president elected without a popular vote majority and a brutal near-parity between the two parties that means the next campaign is already under way. The old Democratic Congressional majority that confronted Mr. Bush's Republican predecessors was not easy, but it was stable.
"You could cut a deal, and it would stick," Mr. Gergen said. "The negotiations that go into putting together a large bipartisan bill are far more difficult today than they were in the past."
On the Hill and off, the rules are different. If the new president likes, he can take solace from Charles II, who thrived in the new political world that Cromwell had helped create -- in contrast to his successor, James II, an unpopular ruler who died in exile.
Jim Jordan, executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, gave a hint of what awaits just beyond the glow of this newest restoration. "If he thinks this is going to be the Texas Legislature, and has people in for barbecue and horseshoes and that's enough, he's in for a surprise," Mr. Jordan said.

GRAPHIC: Photos/Drawings: The players in a Restoration costume drama: George Bush as the deposed Stuart king, Charles I; Bill Clinton (somewhat miscast) as the puritanical revolutionary, Oliver Cromwell; and George W. Bush as the avenging son, Charles II. (The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LOBBYING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COLD WAR (76%); POLITICS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); MEDICARE (58%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); DAVID DREIER (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) BUSH, GEORGE PRESCOTT (FORMER PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); TONER, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



175 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Bush Gathers G.O.P. Governors To Discuss Taxes and Education 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Jan. 6 

 BODY:
President-elect George W. Bush met today with Republican governors, thanking them for their help during the campaign and signaling his desire to keep them involved with his efforts on issues like education.
 On the day that Congress certified his Electoral College victory, Mr. Bush brought 19 governors to his ranch near Crawford, Tex., for a tour and working barbecue lunch. In brief remarks to reporters, he again stressed the need for a tax cut to help offset the slowing of the economy. 
 Mr. Bush and his aides said they were considering whether to rework their tax cut proposal so that it could put money back into people's pockets this year. As originally drafted, Mr. Bush's plan would not take effect until next year.
"I hear a lot of concern from the business community, the high-tech community and the small-business community," Mr. Bush said, adding that he was also concerned about high levels of consumer debt. "People are worried about the economy, and I will decide whether or not to accelerate the tax relief package after I get sworn in."
Mr. Bush and the governors covered topics including environmental regulation, but the focus seemed to be mainly on education.
"I asked the governors to help me work with members on both sides of the aisle to pass an education reform package that will include more flexibility for states," Mr. Bush said.
There is some common ground between the parties on all of the issues at the top of Mr. Bush's agenda. But there is also considerable risk that progress could be thwarted by deep divisions over aspects of the issues.
On education, there is bipartisan consensus about providing more federal money to states and streamlining some of the bureaucratic requirements Washington places on state and local authorities. But most Democrats adamantly oppose Mr. Bush's call to allow parents of students in failing public school districts to put their share of federal funding toward private school tuition.
Similarly, while Democrats are open to supporting a limited missile defense system, they are skeptical about the costs and technical feasibility of the bigger shield Mr. Bush has in mind. And while Democrats have become increasingly open to tax cuts, they continue to press for reductions that are more limited and more directed at low- and moderate-income people than the plan Mr. Bush has proposed.
In two days of meetings earlier this week, Mr. Bush discussed the economy, tax cuts, technology and education with corporate executives and economists. On Monday he is scheduled to meet here with Vice President-elect Dick Cheney, his choice for defense secretary, Donald H. Rumsfeld, and members of Congress to discuss military issues.
Mr. Bush has also been busy packing. Moving vans are scheduled to arrive next week at the governor's mansion here to transport his family's goods to the White House. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); EDUCATION REFORM (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (61%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (50%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRIVATE AND SECTARIAN SCHOOLS; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (59%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



176 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1758 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Economic Ills Spell Risk Abroad 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
The last time the Federal Reserve was forced to cut interest rates in a hurry -- in October 1998 -- it was to protect the United States from a fast-spreading currency crisis in Russia, after more than a year of economic turmoil in Asia. It was called the "contagion effect," and the strategy was to stop it before it infected a booming American economy that had become the predominant force for growth around the world.
 Little more than two years later there is now fear of a different kind of contagion effect, this one radiating from the United States. The sharp slowdown here alarmed the Fed so much that it took the highly unusual step on Wednesday of acting between scheduled meetings, slashing short-term interest rates by a half a percentage point. 
 And what is already clear is that the faltering American economy is not just a domestic problem for the Fed chairman, Alan Greenspan, and for President-elect George W. Bush when he takes over the White House in two weeks. In the last few days it has also become evident that it could rank among Mr. Bush's early international troubles, along with the violence and fragile negotiations in the Middle East, a difficult relationship with Russia, collapsing sanctions on Iraq and lingering questions about the nature of Washington's engagement with China. 
For nearly seven years, the United States has so dominated the world economy that other nations have come to depend, more than ever, on constantly rising demand from the United States for products of all kinds. America's role as the main engine of global growth has been all the more vital because the world's second-largest economy, Japan, has been stagnant for nearly a decade -- and now appears headed into yet another recession.
Suddenly, officials around the world are afraid that as America's engine sputters, they could become the first to suffer. "There is no safety net," one senior Japanese official said Friday from Tokyo. During the Asian crisis, he noted, it was the United States that sucked in manufactured goods from around the world, helping stabilize the world economy.
That is unlikely in 2001, and Mr. Bush may discover, as President Clinton did time and again -- from Mexico City and Jakarta to Tokyo and Moscow -- that as financial troubles spin around the world, diplomatic troubles follow.
Here in Washington, there are questions about whether Mr. Bush's team, still trying to get organized, is ready for the kind of side-effects the American slowdown could generate around the globe. Mr. Bush's foreign policy advisers are experienced in handling Russia and defiant states like Iraq, but many of the new challenges of managing financial instability that leaps national boundaries came largely after most of them left when Mr. Bush's father lost the White House in 1992.
The treasury secretary-designate, Paul H. O'Neill, formerly served as chief executive of Alcoa, the huge aluminum manufacturer, and knows both the world and Mr. Greenspan well. (Mr. Greenspan, once a member of the Alcoa board, recruited Mr. O'Neill for his corporate job.) But Mr. O'Neill has never managed the kind of rolling financial turmoil that has beset parts of the world off and on since the most recent Mexican currency crisis began in 1995.
And, like Colin L. Powell at the State Department and Donald H. Rumsfeld at the Pentagon, Mr. O'Neill is still scouting for his deputies, who will have the day-to-day responsibility for managing the slowdown at home, and containing its effects abroad. 
"The highest priority is to get your team together in the Treasury, and that may be more important in the globalized world than putting together the traditional teams in State and Defense," said Jeffrey R. Shafer, the vice chairman of Salomon Smith Barney International and a former undersecretary of treasury for international affairs in the Clinton administration. "The crises that hurt the most are the ones you don't see coming."
During his campaign, Mr. Bush repeatedly expressed doubts about using the International Monetary Fund to bail countries out of trouble, saying it created a "moral hazard" by sending a signal to investors that Washington would help them out of trouble. But it is unclear whether his view might change if declines elsewhere in the world worsen America's own financial picture by cutting into American exports -- one of the keys to growth in the United States. 
"This is a case," said one former senior member of Mr. Clinton's economic team, "where something that sounds pretty simple on the campaign trail can look a lot more complex once you get into the Oval Office."
In interviews with finance ministers, business executives and analysts around the world -- all conducted after the Fed's interest rate cut sent a message that the American economy was deteriorating much faster than anticipated a few months ago -- it became clear that the wrench thrown into the gears of the world's dominant economy is sending sparks flying everywhere.
Most countries are not yet feeling the effects. But with the International Monetary Fund declaring on Thursday that it would dramatically revise the optimistic projections for world economic growth that it published just a month ago, few doubt that they are in for a rough year -- perhaps rougher than the United States' own.
The United States absorbs about 20 percent of all of Asia's exports, and its insatiable demand for more was the key to the quick recovery in Southeast Asia and South Korea.
"Telecommunications equipment, semiconductors, computers and peripherals are all things that the U.S. and the rest of the world couldn't get enough of in the past few years," said David G. Fernandez, an economist at J. P. Morgan in Singapore. "The same factors that allowed them to have the V-shaped recovery" -- one where the plunge down is followed by a sharp bounce up -- "have turned fully against them."
Government officials around Asia say they doubt America's problems will plunge them into the kind of crisis that struck in the summer of 1997. That was when many of them discovered that linking their own currencies to the fast-rising dollar meant they could neither sell their goods nor repay enormous loans from Western banks and investors.
Chatumongkol Sonakul, governor of the Bank of Thailand, where the Asian crisis began, insisted this week that his country was no longer as vulnerable as it once was.
"We're not too worried like last time when we were really unstable," he said in an interview. Thailand's foreign debt has fallen dramatically, he said. "We're still overborrowed. But these are reasonable numbers coming from where we were."
Masahiro Kawai, the World Bank's chief economist for East Asia and the Pacific, said many of the countries that were in such dire straits two years ago have in the meantime accumulated "large foreign exchange reserves" that should help see them through a brief downturn.
But a lengthy recession could well trigger new resentments against Washington. When Thailand hit turbulent times, there was a sharp adverse reaction against the United States -- which did not immediately come to the country's aid. Indonesia is already in the throes of an anti-American mood, and across Asia a prolonged slowdown now could rekindle suspicions that the United States turns the trade spigot on and off for its own advantage. 
The effects may also be felt acutely in Mexico, which sends more than 80 percent of its exports to the United States -- accounting for 21 percent of Mexico's gross domestic product. Goldman, Sachs is already predicting a sharp economic slowdown in Mexico this year. That could greatly complicate the task of the country's new president, Vicente Fox Quesada, the world leader Mr. Bush talks about most frequently.
There are other, more complex, troubles anticipated in Latin America. The same oil price increases that have vexed American consumers have helped bolster Russia, Mexico, Venezuela, Colombia and Ecuador. Now the slowing American economy seems likely to reduce oil demand, and with it prices. Consumers here will be relieved; much of Latin America may be back in trouble.
Similarly, there is a fear that investors, pulling back from risk around the world, will make it far harder for developing nations to borrow. The stakes are particularly high for Argentina, which needs $21.8 billion in loans this year and is already on the I.M.F.'s list of potential trouble spots. 
Europe seems less vulnerable. It is less dependent on the rest of the world, and its new currency, the euro, has recovered somewhat in recent weeks as America has weakened. But because the Europeans are hardly major importers of goods, they are not a solution to problems emanating from the United States.
Perhaps the biggest risks -- and the most immediate diplomatic challenge for Mr. Bush -- involve Japan. Three times in the last decade Japanese officials declared that their long economic decline was over, and three times they were wrong. What little growth the country is experiencing comes in large part from massive deficit spending by the government, some of it urged on by American officials, which has created an unsustainable national debt. 
Just before the presidential election, Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser, gave a speech in Washington sharply critical of how the Clinton administration has dealt with Japan. He argued that it was time to lecture the Japanese less about how to reform their economy and spend more time working to introduce competition.
But if the American economy declines, pressure will almost certainly build in Washington to get Japan jump-started, in hopes that it can buy more American goods and help the United States out of its problems -- just as the United States, in recent years, has aided Japan.
"Japan is probably the most fragile country in Asia right now, and the one where a recession could create the most problems elsewhere," Daniel Tarullo, a professor at Georgetown University and previously one of Mr. Clinton's top international economic advisers, said Friday.
The Japanese, however, are hardly in a mood right now to think about boosting their imports of American goods. In fact, they need to export to the United States more than ever to compensate for the refusal of their own consumers to buy much. 
A quick decline by the United States "will be a double whammy for Japan," said Kazuo Mizuno, senior economist for Kokusai Securities in Tokyo. And a double whammy for the world's two largest economies could easily be a double whammy for the new administration.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Holding Their Breath"As the United States economy slows, countries that sell a large portion of their exports to American buyers could be hurt as well. All figures are for the first half of 2000. MexicoWORLDWIDE EXPORTS (billions): $68.89EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES (billions): $58.05EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 84.3 ChinaWORLDWIDE EXPORTS (billions): 144.63EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES (billions): 41.20EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 28.5 South KoreaWORLDWIDE EXPORTS (billions): 75.52EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES (billions): 16.68EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 22.1 BrazilWORLDWIDE EXPORTS (billions): 26.31EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES (billions): 5.59EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 21.2 ThailandWORLDWIDE EXPORTS (billions): 33.29EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES (billions): 6.86EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 20.6 Hong KongWORLDWIDE EXPORTS (billions): 80.87EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES (billions): 14.91EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 18.4 ChileWORLDWIDE EXPORTS (billions): 9.14EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES (billions): 1.57EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 17.2 IndonesiaWORLDWIDE EXPORTS (billions): 30.85EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES (billions): 4.64EXPORTS TO UNITED STATES AS PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL: 15.0(Source: DRI/McGraw Hill)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); TRENDS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (75%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (68%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



177 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Dueling Power Centers 

 BODY:
You know you are in the rosy glow of transition time when a new presidential team hits Washington and starts boasting about how it will not permit the sort of bitter infighting that has afflicted every modern administration. We wish the members of President-elect George W. Bush's team well on this score. It is about time harmony broke out in the Republican Party. But from Mr. Bush's final cabinet and senior White House staff choices, it is possible to define three power clusters, and it is also possible see how these groups might have very different ideas about how best to serve Mr. Bush's interests.
 The president-elect has assembled a White House staff of fiercely political, loyal and protective aides. He has sprinkled the cabinet with a team of hard-edged ideologues on the environment and social issues. Then there is a wedge of powerful personalities occupying the jobs of vice president, secretary of state and secretary of defense. 
 Mr. Bush joked to reporters last week that the "Texas Iron Triangle" he had in Austin had now moved to Washington. But the earlier precedent for the new White House managerial structure is Ronald Reagan's famous "troika" of Jim Baker, Mike Deaver and Ed Meese. Mr. Bush has picked Andrew Card to be his chief of staff, Karen Hughes to handle communications and the schedule, and Karl Rove as the political enforcer.
In political terms, these three will be primarily concerned with building Mr. Bush's personal popularity, positioning the G.O.P. for the mid-term elections and laying the groundwork for a 2004 re-election campaign. One of the first decisions for the Card-Hughes-Rove triumvirate will be how much running room to allow the cabinet ideologues. For while their boss campaigned as a uniter, not a divider, he has put some very divisive figures in his cabinet in those areas where voters are most concerned about the conservative agenda. We are thinking of the group consisting of Attorney General-designate John Ashcroft, Labor Secretary-designate Linda Chavez, Interior Secretary-designate Gale Norton and Energy Secretary-designate Spencer Abraham. Turning those four loose on abortion rights, affirmative action, the environment and energy policy could alienate the suburban moderates who put Mr. Bush in office and dash his hopes of expanding his minority vote in the future.
This dilemma is not a new one for Republican White Houses. In the Reagan years, there were constant battles between so-called pragmatists led by Mr. Baker and conservatives led by Mr. Meese and Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger. And as the historian David Greenberg points out, the last time that Republicans were in control of the White House and the Congress, President Dwight Eisenhower had similar difficulties. Ike, he notes, promoted business-friendly tax cuts for the moderates but tangled constantly with people like Senators Joseph McCarthy and Robert Taft on his right flank. 
What may set the Bush administration apart from these earlier Republican regimes is the last, most unusual and potentially most potent of its three power clusters. This G.O.P. version of the wise men consists of Vice President-elect Dick Cheney, Gen. Colin Powell at the State Department and Donald Rumsfeld at Defense. While untested as a diplomat, General Powell has a superstar reputation that almost overshadows his president in much the way that Henry Kissinger threatened to overshadow President Gerald Ford. Moreover, General Powell has strong views in the domestic sphere, favoring affirmative action and abortion rights in an administration not friendly to either idea. We will be watching this year's budget battles to see how he reacts if Congress tries to cut family planning assistance from the State Department, a favorite cause of the Republican right in years past.
As formidable as the general may become, Mr. Rumsfeld is not likely to be pushed around by him. Mr. Rumsfeld has battled and won against Mr. Kissinger, after all. As for Mr. Cheney, the vice president-elect has clearly emerged as this administration's prime minister, as The Economist put it. Mr. Cheney is a conservative, but not a suicidal one. The first test is likely to be taxes. Right now there is a blur of voices coming out of the Bush operations in Washington and Austin, with some hanging tough on a giant tax cut for the wealthy and others suggesting that the new president will be ready to deal fairly quickly on the package's size and shape. Mr. Cheney is the member of the team likely to provide his boss the most experienced perspective on what will fly on Capitol Hill. 
But Mr. Bush, no matter how many advisory groups he assembles, will still have to decide whether he is a moderate or militant conservative on taxes, social policy and the environment. That means the bickering that worries the president-elect so much when it happens between the parties could break out among his own advisers. It's happened before with Republicans in Mr. Bush's new neighborhood. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); TAX LAW (60%); ABORTION (50%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KARL ROVE (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



178 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVE; 
A One-Man Dream Team as Well as A-, B- and C-Rods

BYLINE:  By ROBERT LIPSYTE 

 BODY:
The New Year's list from readers to the lipsite@aol.com grows with requests for what I should be pontificating about in 2001. C'mon, I only have two heads.
 How should I know whether Tiger Woods is ultimately good or bad for golf? You don't think I actually watch it, especially now that it has this facade of cool. The current besottedness with Childe Eldrick is based on his filling the money hole left when the world's most expensive model, Michael Jordan, hooped off. The more Michael fades like an old Polaroid print, the more Tiger burns bright. 
 Besides beating everyone else, Tiger, like Michael, has an innate self-confidence that doesn't need the end-zone dance. His public face is corporate and smooth, he takes care of business and just so long as he doesn't try to conflate himself with a game that has outlived Bobby Jones, Arnold Palmer and Bagger Vance, he will be allowed to lease his image.
Meanwhile, the PGA needs to figure a way to use Tiger's current dominance to market the tour as the Quest to Bag the Tiger without allowing that to become a tacit abdication of control. The last time a charismatic athlete so dominated a sport and was also on the verge of taking it over economically, the Justice Department busted Cassius Clay for refusing to be drafted. Within minutes, boxing commissions around the country stripped Muhammad Ali of his heavyweight title. Tiger knows his history. He wouldn't want Ernie Els to be his Joe Frazier.
As if it isn't enough that the world's greatest golfer is a man of color and the hottest rapper, Eminem, is white, we have Marion Jones on the cover of Vogue and Venus Williams everywhere else. When have we ever had two such sipid female sports stars at the same time?
While I'm not voting on which of the two is the sexiest female sports figure alive, Alex Rodriguez is not the sexiest male, despite current polls. No question about that. Just look at A-Rod's price tag. Sexiest male has to be Tom Hicks, the tycoon who could afford to buy him.
Yes, I do wish pro football players would display some real manhood and boycott, or at least protest through work slowdowns (missed blocks, stopping short of the end zone, dancing in the huddle), teams that don't hire the coaches they want. In particular, I'm thinking of African-Americans who make up 75 percent of the players and only 2 of the 31 head coaches. Several months ago, the executive director of the National Football League Players Association, Gene Upshaw, who is black, told owners at a league meeting that free-agent black players might be more likely to sign with a team with a black head coach.
This is a touchy issue, especially since the hiring of head coaches is so whimsical, so based on the comfort zones of white owners and general managers. What about the comfort zones of Jets players who might take less money to stay and play harder for Maurice Carthon, an experienced assistant, than yet another white proven failure?
As for college athletes who can't read or write, I don't think they should be forced to attend classes, take tests or write their own papers. I have received a number of e-mail messages from college professors -- no names, please -- expressing fear and loathing of their athletic departments. A high school teacher wrote, claiming to have been among those complicitous in sending an illiterate on to compete in last week's so-called national championship at the Orange Bowl. No names, please.
Students though they may be, the competing quarterbacks in that event would have made George Gipp, the original tramp athlete, proud of his legacy. Josh Heupel, son of his high school coach, went to Weber State and Snow Junior College before ending up at Oklahoma, the ultimate winner. Chris Weinke, at 28 the oldest player by five years to win the Heisman Trophy, got to Florida State after a career as a minor league infielder. 
I agree that any market that can't support a competitive major league baseball team doesn't deserve it. If those people in, say, Kansas City, Pittsburgh or Minneapolis, would rather go boating or camping than watching the B- and C-Rods perform live for them, they shouldn't have a franchise. Revenue sharing is for football. Balanced rosters are for soccer. Socialism for the moguls of the national pastime? Forget it. George Steinbrenner goes out and buys us a winner. Does he ask for more than love in return?
I also agree that it's not too early to support the city's bid for the 2012 Olympic Games. That's any city except New York. There are certainly cities that might benefit from the Games -- Kansas City, Pittsburgh and Minneapolis come to mind -- but New York is not one of them. The Olympics puts a city on the Happy News Network for a year, makes a few local developers richer and gives some political leaders a chance to meet and pay off some very sophisticated Olympic officials whose children and mistresses need shoes and tuition. Also, the International Olympic Committee's rented academics come to town and set up think tanks and cultural events, affording the illusion that we are really in Athens and Pericles is our mayor.
A city able to play host to the World Series within its boundaries, and move fans by public transportation, cannot be enhanced by the Big Idea of 1896. Unless, of course, golf becomes an Olympic sport again and you-know-who is the one-man Dream Team.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alex Rodriguez is headed for Texas. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); HIP HOP CULTURE (74%); BOXING (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (63%); RAP MUSIC (63%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS 

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (79%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (71%); VENUS WILLIAMS (50%); MUHAMMAD ALI (50%) LIPSYTE, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



179 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-10

Lack of AIDS Drugs Imperils Romanian Children
Thousands of the Romanian children who contracted the virus that causes AIDS from needless blood transfusions a decade ago are still alive, but high prices charged by Western drug companies, Romania's deep poverty and the failures of the country's weak governments have ensured that life-saving anti-retroviral drugs are beyond their reach. 1

Kosovo Sites Cause Concern
The discovery of low-level beta radiation at Kosovo sites that were struck by NATO ammunition made with depleted uranium seems certain to fan a rapidly spreading sense of panic across Europe. 3

Schroder Arrives in Moscow
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroder arrived in Moscow for two days of talks with President Vladimir V. Putin, to discuss how Europe would react to George W. Bush's plans to build a national missile defense shield and whether Russia will default on its Soviet-era debt. 4

Election in Thailand
Thailand voted in an election that was expected to produce not only a new parliament but weeks or months of political uncertainty. Many of the winners could be disqualified by a new election commission. 7

South Africa Battles Cholera
South Africa enlisted the help of the W.H.O. to contain an outbreak of cholera that has killed 59 people and stricken more than 15,000 along the country's eastern coast. 7

NATIONAL 12-18

States Seen Gaining Power
Under New Administration
The new administration intends to shift power from the federal government, giving state and local officials far more leeway across the spectrum of domestic policy issues, from health and welfare to education and and environmental protection. 1

John Ashcroft would reach the highest office ever attained by a leading figure of the Christian right if he is confirmed as the next United States attorney general. 1

A chemical spill that killed every living thing in a Colorado river also provides a look at the political philosophy of Gale A. Norton, President-elect George W. Bush's choice for secretary of the interior. 1

Labor leaders are mobilizing against the nomination of Linda Chavez as labor secretary because of her views on issues including minimum wage and anti-discrimination laws. 17 

A dozen members of the Congressional Black Caucus tried in vain to block the counting of Florida's 25 electoral votes during Congressional certification of the Electoral College vote. 17

Economic Issue Looms
The nation's sharp slowdown in economic activity could rank high among Mr. Bush's early international troubles. 1

Churches Form an Alliance
The Episcopal Church and the Evangelical Lutheran Church celebrated the start of an alliance allowing them to share clergy members, churches and missionary work. 12

NEW YORK/REGION 21-25

A Bronx Ninth Grader Is Shot; Teen Suspect Is Apprehended
A 14-year-old girl was fatally shot in a Bronx apartment kitchen by another teenager playing with a powerful handgun in the next room, the police said. The boy who fired the gun and several friends tried to cover up how the shooting happened and then left, but two of the friends had second thoughts and called the police. 21

Layoffs at Times Digital
New York Times Digital, the Internet division of The New York Times Company, is laying off about 70 employees, according to employees at the digital unit who have been briefed on the move. 23

Neediest Cases 22

OBITUARIES 27

Chess 28
Weather 29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VIRUSES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RELIGION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); ANTIVIRALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); SHOOTINGS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICS (74%); BLOOD TRANSFUSIONS (73%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); CAUCUSES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (67%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (66%); CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (62%); MINIMUM WAGE (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (61%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); GERHARD SCHRODER (69%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) ROMANIA (94%); KOSOVO (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); THAILAND (87%); GERMANY (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



180 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Union Leaders Plan Fight Against Bush's Labor Selection 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The nation's labor leaders are mobilizing to try to defeat President-elect George W. Bush's selection of Linda Chavez as labor secretary, saying her opposition to the minimum wage and her conservative views on affirmative action make her unfit for the office.
 John J. Sweeney, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president, said yesterday that he had already urged Democratic leaders in Congress to defeat Ms. Chavez. On Tuesday, several union leaders said, the labor federation's 54-member executive council will officially announce its opposition to the confirmation of Ms. Chavez, a conservative columnist and former Reagan administration official. 
 "She has spent the past 20 years opposing just about every important program, from the minimum wage to affirmative action to so many things important to working families," Mr. Sweeney said in a telephone interview. "It is very difficult to think of working with someone who is opposed to some of our basic labor laws, yet says she's going to enforce those laws. She's just not the right person to be secretary of labor."
Union leaders acknowledged that they faced an uphill battle in trying to stop the confirmation, but they said it was important to fight against someone they view as hostile to unions and unenthusiastic about enforcing workers' rights. 
Several union leaders said they hoped they could block the nomination by winning the support of all the Democrats in the Senate, which is divided 50-50, and a handful of labor-friendly Republicans. The unions' determination to defeat Ms. Chavez was first reported yesterday by The Washington Post.
"I think the American labor movement has a responsibility to oppose her, to point out to the American people and to the United States Senate what kind of individual would be put in charge of the issues affecting working families in America," said Gerald McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees and chairman of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s political committee.
Tucker Eskew, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, voiced confidence that Ms. Chavez would win Senate confirmation, despite labor's opposition.
"As secretary, upon confirmation, she will strongly enforce the laws of the land and strongly enforce the laws that look out for working Americans," Mr. Eskew said. "She comes form a working-class background. She has a record of promoting the interests of working Americans and she will do so as labor secretary."
To drum up opposition to Ms. Chavez, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. is distributing copies of her writings, which, union leaders say, often take a contemptuous or extreme stance on basic workers rights.
In her columns, Ms. Chavez has ridiculed sexual harassment lawsuits as being brought by "crybabies," has argued against the notion that women face a glass ceiling thwarting promotion into the senior ranks of business, and has likened supporters of an increased minimum wage to Marxists. She has condemned proposals to raise the federal minimum wage, saying such a step would reduce jobs and force many companies out of business.
Ms. Chavez, who was staff director of the United States Civil Rights Commission under President Ronald Reagan, is president of the Center for Equal Opportunity, a Washington research group. The center, a fervent opponent of affirmative action, says it is devoted "to the promotion of color-blind equal opportunity."
Labor union and civil rights groups have voiced concerns that Ms. Chavez may not enforce federal rules that require thousands of federal contractors to use affirmative action criteria. 
Ms. Eskew said: "She will strongly enforce the civil rights laws of the nation, while increasing equal employment opportunities, including for workers under federal contracts. She has a history of supporting the tenets of what the president-elect calls affirmative access, an aggressive effort to reach out to Americans of all backgrounds, without establishing quotas or racial preferences."
After her selection was announced last week, Ms. Chavez sought to reassure workers, promising to promote safety on the job and to enforce the nation's labor laws. After noting that her father was a house painter and that her mother stood for long hours working in department stores and restaurants, she said, "I intend to keep faith with the men and the women who still work at jobs like those my parents held." 
Still, labor leaders, who played a major role in Vice President Al Gore's campaign, often describe Ms. Chavez as antiunion. Although she worked as a lobbyist for the American Federation of Teachers two decades ago, she has written that teachers unions are often bad for the nation's schools. She has also condemned various strikes as being bad for the economy and has written that the idea of doctors' forming labor unions "ought to strike fear in the heart of every American." 
Defending Ms. Chavez's writings, Mr. Eskew said that as a columnist, she was expected to be provocative. "We'd like the opponents to be reminded of the difference between a newspaper columnist and a cabinet secretary," he said. "The words of a columnist don't necessarily predict the works of a cabinet secretary." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Chavez, the Bush choice for labor secretary. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WOMEN (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); COUNTIES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (72%); GENDER EQUALITY (70%); WRITERS (70%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (70%) LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; MINIMUM WAGE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (58%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; CHAVEZ, LINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



181 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1888 words

HEADLINE: SHIFTING OF POWER FROM WASHINGTON IS SEEN UNDER BUSH 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 6 

 BODY:
One thing is already clear about how President-elect George W. Bush intends to govern the nation: state and local officials will have far more leeway to shape and operate the full range of federal social, regulatory and public works programs.
 Across the spectrum of domestic policy issues, from health and welfare to education, transportation and environmental protection, the new administration promises to shift power from the federal government to the states, and state officials of both parties said they expected the promises to be kept. 
 As governor of Texas, Mr. Bush often declared, "Texans can run Texas," and aides said that motto indicated the respect he would show state officials -- an attitude that is also reflected in his choices for posts in the cabinet and on the White House staff.
In interviews this week, governors and other state officials said they expected Mr. Bush to work closely with the states and to give them more discretion in deciding how to use federal money and meet the goals of federal laws. 
"George is more inclined than the current administration to trust state legislators and governors -- Democrats and Republicans -- to make decisions," said Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, a Republican.
Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont, a Democrat, said, "I do believe that the states will end up with more flexibility to manage Medicaid and other health and human service programs."
Mr. Bush met with 19 Republican governors today at his ranch in Crawford, Tex. Page 17. 
Ari Fleischer, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, said the meeting was an early sign of how Mr. Bush would govern. "He believes deeply that many of the nation's answers can be found in the state capitals," Mr. Fleischer said.
The people chosen to head the federal agencies that manage social, regulatory and public works programs have extensive experience in state and local government. Some of them have already spoken out about the need to give states more leeway to run those programs as they see fit.
Andrew H. Card Jr., who will be Mr. Bush's chief of staff, developed an excellent rapport with state and local officials when he was director of the White House office of intergovernmental affairs under President Ronald Reagan. Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., who also held that job under Mr. Reagan, is now in line to be director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, with broad authority to review federal regulations before they are issued.
Health care is a notable example.
Like many governors, Mr. Dean said he had been frustrated in efforts to get federal approval for innovations intended to cover more people under Medicaid and the new Children's Health Insurance Program. But Mr. Dean predicted that Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, the man chosen to be secretary of health and human and services, would be more receptive to state experiments. Mr. Thompson, a Republican, "is one of the innovators himself" and has experienced similar frustrations in dealing with Washington, Mr. Dean said.
Seventeen states have expanded health insurance programs for children to cover parents as well, and new research shows that parents are more likely to enroll their children if the adults are also eligible. But Wisconsin, New York, Arizona and other states have had difficulty getting permission from the Clinton administration to use federal money for such family coverage.
Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, a Republican, said it was "outrageous that the Clinton administration had failed to act" on the state's plan, which was approved by the State Legislature in 1999 and was to take effect on Jan. 1 of this year. Clinton aides said they needed more information from the state.
Christine C. Ferguson, director of the Rhode Island Department of Human Services, said she expected a new climate in Washington, more hospitable to state proposals to cover more people by combining Medicaid with the new children's health program.
Even people once skeptical of the states now see many of them as engines of progressive social policy.
Sara Rosenbaum, a professor of health law at George Washington University, said Wisconsin "runs one of the best Medicaid programs in the country." Its new Badger Care program, which covers working families with slightly higher incomes, has been "a stunning success," she said.
With Congress unable to overhaul the basic Medicaid statute, Ms. Rosenbaum said, federal officials have good reason to waive selected provisions of the law "so states can reach more people with better-quality health care."
But some environmentalists are worried. Carl Pope, executive director of the Sierra Club, said: "States already have a lot of power in the environmental arena, and many simply decline to use it. So we are not in favor of giving them more discretion." While some states have vigorously enforced limits on air and water pollution, Mr. Pope said, others have not.
Alison P. Kaufman, chief Washington lobbyist for the State of Connecticut, said: "We are very optimistic about the relationship we will have with the new administration. Governor Bush has always had an open ear to all the governors. We don't expect a complete turnaround, but the philosophy of the new administration will be much more open to consultation with the states, to flexibility for the states."
Liberals and Democrats said that was not necessarily a bad thing. In recent years, they noted, they have often had more success at the state level than in the Republican-controlled Congress.
Joseph A. Dear, chief of staff to the governor of Washington, Gary Locke, a Democrat, said: "States don't want to be treated like just another stakeholder, another interest group. That approach drives them crazy. If the new administration finds a way to accord states the recognition that they are political entities, not interest groups, and that they can be trusted, that might be very beneficial and could improve the performance of government in delivering services to taxpayers."
Mr. Dear said he saw signs that the new administration would give the State of Washington more room to maneuver on a complex issue: how to save endangered species of wild salmon without disrupting the state's urban industrial economy.
"If the actions of the new administration match the words of the president-elect," Mr. Dear said, "that could help our salmon recovery efforts."
Mr. Bush and his appointees can use a variety of instruments to shift power to the states. Under Section 1115 of the Social Security Act, they can grant waivers for experimental health and welfare programs. They can write new regulations, eliminating some of the strings attached to federal aid. They can consolidate federal grants earmarked for specific purposes. 
The federal-state relationship has been evolving for more than 200 years. President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal and President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society vastly increased the size and power of the federal government. President Richard M. Nixon proposed a "new federalism," and Congress agreed to give states billions of dollars in federal "revenue sharing," with no strings attached. Mr. Reagan consolidated dozens of federal aid programs into nine block grants. But in 1996, Democrats blocked a Republican plan to convert Medicaid into a block grant, with a lump sum of federal money for each state.
In his first inaugural address as governor, in 1995, Mr. Bush promised to revive the 10th Amendment, which, he said, "gives to the states all powers not specifically granted to the federal government." His choice for secretary of the interior, Gale A. Norton, often invoked the amendment when, as attorney general of Colorado, she battled with the Environmental Protection Agency on air pollution rules and other issues.
Gordon M. Ambach, executive director of the Council of Chief State School Officers, said: "We expect there will be more flexibility for states and localities in various federal programs like teacher training, reducing class size and providing education for children in poverty and children with disabilities."
But Mr. Ambach noted that Mr. Bush had also emphasized accountability for student performance and for the use of federal money.
"The federal government will rely heavily on the states to set standards for students, to carry out testing and to report the results school by school," said Mr. Ambach, who was the state education commissioner in New York from 1977 to 1987.
Jerry T. White, superintendent of a school district with 370 students in rural Frenchville, Me., said he hoped and expected that the Bush administration would reduce the amount of paperwork he must do to account for the use of federal money.
"We must file eight reports each year describing in detail how we spend $16,000 under four different federal education programs," Mr. White said. "Local schools are buried in paper and red tape."
State and local transit officials welcomed the selection of Norman Y. Mineta to be secretary of transportation, noting that he had been mayor of San Jose, Calif., and a strong advocate for local control.
"As a member of Congress, he was one of the principal authors of a 1991 law that let local officials decide whether to use federal money for highways or transit projects -- buses and subways -- at their discretion," said Daniel Duff, vice president of the American Public Transportation Association. 
Bill Clinton was governor of Arkansas for 12 years, but as president he often clashed with state and local officials, who contended that he sometimes usurped their prerogatives.
The most notable clash came in 1998, when Mr. Clinton issued an executive order setting forth new reasons for the federal government to intervene in state affairs. The decree prompted a bipartisan outcry from state and local officials. The National Governors' Association called it "wrongheaded and unacceptable." Edward G. Rendell, a Democrat who was then mayor of Philadelphia, complained, "No state or local government official was consulted."
President Clinton revoked the order 15 months after he issued it.
Aides to Mr. Bush said he would show greater sensitivity to issues of federalism. In his eyes, they said, state officials are not supplicants, subordinates or mere middle managers, but equal partners with a role rooted in the Constitution.
The Bush transition team is already listening to state concerns on environmental issues. When Gov. Christie Whitman of New Jersey was chosen to be administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, she said she knew "what it's like to be on the receiving end of mandates from Washington."
Ten of the 29 people advising the Bush transition team on the environmental agency are current or former state officials. "We expect greater involvement of states in the development of E.P.A. rules, legislative proposals and policies," said Robert E. Roberts, executive director of the Environmental Council of the States, which represents top state officials.
Gov. Michael O. Leavitt of Utah, a Republican, said he believed that the new administration would be pervaded by a philosophy favoring the devolution of power to the states. But Mr. Leavitt added: "We recognize that bureaucracies are bureaucracies. They have an inclination to preserve their own power. That's human nature. It will require continual effort by the states to counterbalance those forces."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania said the new administration would trust states to make decisions. (Gene Visconti for The New York Times)(pg. 18) Chart: "Experiences Beyond the Beltway"Many of President-elect George W. Bush's choices to head federal agencies have backgrounds in state or local government. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICESGov. Tommy G. Thompson of WisconsinNation's longest-serving governor . . . Revamped Wisconsin welfare program to emphasize work, but also poured money into child care, health care and other services for low-wage workers . . . Successfully lobbied Congress and the White House to approve landmark welfare law in 1996. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCYGov. Christie Whitman of New JerseyChief executive of New Jersey for seven years . . . Served as a local official, in Somerset County, and as president of the state Board of Public Utilities . . . Clashed occasionally with the Clinton administration on environmental issues. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONRod Paige, Houston schools superintendentElected to the Houston Board of Education in 1989 . . . Served as president of the board in 1992 . . . Has been superintendent since 1994 . . . Serves as secretary-treasurer for the Council of the Great City Schools, a national coalition. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATIONNorman Y. Mineta, current secretary of commerceCity councilman and mayor of San Jose, Calif. . . . Chairman of House Committee on Public Works and Transportation while in Congress . . . Had a major role in writing 1991 law that let local officials decide whether to use federal money for highways or transit projects (buses and subways). WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFFAndrew H. Card Jr.Served in the Massachusetts House of Representatives, 1975 to 1983 . . . Was director of the White House office of intergovernmental affairs under President Ronald Reagan . . . Served in the first Bush administration as deputy White House chief of staff and secretary of transportation. (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); BUDGETS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); POLITICS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (65%) STATES (US); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON TEXANS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); MITCH DANIELS (58%) PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



182 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Passing The Torch On a Chile Trade Deal

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
THE final days of any administration are a time for tying up loose ends and polishing a president's legacy. That is why President Clinton is going the extra mile in Northern Ireland and the Middle East. It also explains why he took steps to fulfill a seven-year-old promise to Chile when he had just 52 days left in office. 
 In 1993, before the ink had dried on the North American Free Trade Agreement, the president said Chile was first in line to join Canada and Mexico in that trading bloc. The United States is Chile's No. 1 trading partner, and Nafta is one of the world's premier trading blocs. Chile could not wait to say yes. 
 But wait it did. The 1995 Mexican peso crisis soured the United States Congress on trade deals. A few years later, Congress refused to give the president "fast track" authority to expediently negotiate a comprehensive trade agreement. Chile waited. 
Mr. Clinton never got fast track but on Oct. 24 of last year, Mr. Clinton announced a free-trade agreement with Jordan. "We obviously were not extremely happy with that," said Andres Bianchi, Chile's ambassador in Washington. The United States' two-way trade with Jordan is just a fraction of the nearly $6 billion total with Chile. But the Jordan deal had more to do with Middle East peace than trade. 
On Nov. 16, Mr. Clinton announced negotiations for a trade deal with Singapore. "This was a little bit more unpleasant for us because it meant that Chile was being bypassed once again," Mr. Bianchi said. Chilean officials complained bitterly. 
The pressure worked, and on Nov. 29, Mr. Clinton announced that the United States would negotiate a bilateral trade deal with Chile. To keep things simple, Chile would not formally become a Nafta partner, but that hardly mattered: Chile signed a pact with Canada in 1996, and with Mexico in 1998. 
Imports and exports between Chile and the United States are almost already in balance. Senior trade officials said the real reason for engaging Chile was to get the ball rolling on another long-stalled Clinton ambition -- a Free Trade Agreement of the Americas, covering the 34 democracies of the Western Hemisphere. 
A deal with Chile would give "an empuje, a push to put some oomph to the F.T.A.A.," said Richard W. Fisher, deputy United States trade representative, in a recent speech. "This will be the first priority of the next administration," he said.
Beyond starting negotiations in Santiago tomorrow, very little progress will be made before Jan. 20, when Mr. Clinton leaves office. But by putting into motion the Chile and Singapore deals, and completing a deal with Jordan, he is leaving a template for foreign trade deals with a social conscience. 
In announcing the Chile deal, Mr. Clinton said it would be based on the Jordan pact, the first to include language in the principal text committing countries to meet their own labor and environmental standards. Nafta covered those areas in side accords that are widely considered inadequate. 
"Chile is really an icebreaker," said Pamela S. Falk, a professor of international trade at the City University of New York School of Law. By including public interest clauses in the agreement, she said, Mr. Clinton has set a precedent that his successor, George W. Bush, will have trouble ignoring. 
In the campaign, Mr. Bush said he favored free-trade agreements but not if they included labor and environmental standards that could interfere with trade. 
The abrupt movement on Chile opens interesting possibilities. The deal can be presented to the next Congress as a Democratic initiative, though it generally corresponds to Republican aims. "Then I think they can find a way to include some fairly diluted labor and environment standards that can get the Democrats on board but still have very strong support among the Republicans," Professor Falk said. 
Unlike other Latin American countries, Chile is willing to accept such standards, but it wants noncompliance to be handled with fines, not trade sanctions. The Chileans are worried that sanctions would hurt Chilean workers more than a trade deal would help them. Critics including Global Trade Watch, a citizens group based in Washington, say such concerns may not be warranted because the sanctions in the Jordan agreement are weak and ineffective. 
Chile is also looking for a way to mend fences with Brazil, which has been trying to get Chile to join the South American trade association called Mercosur. A United States-Chile deal would weaken Mercosur and put pressure on Brazil to cooperate more fully in the F.T.A.A. talks. 
This has delighted legacy-minded administration officials. They now say it may be possible to have a hemispheric deal ready by 2003, two years ahead of schedule.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Equal Partners"Leading U.S. imports from Chile in 1999. Grapes: $525 (million)Wood: 417Copper: 414 Leading U.S. exports to Chile in 1999 Computers: $820 (million)Electronics: 504Automobiles: 138(Source: U.S. Trade)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (95%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%) DEPALMA, ANTHONY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (77%) CHILE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); MEXICO (94%); CANADA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); JORDAN (90%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%) CHILE; CANADA; MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2001 



183 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Some Leery Of Plan to Lift Ban on Arms In Africa Horn 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
Misgivings are mounting, even among some American officials here, over United States efforts to lift an arms embargo against Ethiopia and Eritrea while the two African countries are still putting in place a fresh peace accord ending a border war that killed tens of thousands of combatants. 
 Secretary General Kofi Annan and some officials at the United States Mission to the United Nations, have expressed doubts about a draft resolution introduced in the 15-member Security Council shortly before the new year that aims to end the arms embargo, Western diplomats said. 
 In particular, strong objections have been raised by Canada and the Netherlands, which have peacekeepers in Eritrea and Ethiopia as part of some 4,200 United Nations forces who are supposed to oversee the peace accord signed by the two Horn of Africa countries on Dec. 12. 
"It would be better to focus on confidence-building measures at this stage and give the peacekeeping troops a chance to get set up and to establish relationships with people on both sides," said the Canadian ambassador, Paul Heinbecker. 
"We appreciate the progress the two sides made but think it would be good to give that agreement some time to mature," he said. "The two governments presumably have other priorities they could be spending their money on." 
The arms embargo is scheduled to expire in May, a year after it was imposed, and several countries want the ban to stay in place at least until then. It will stay in place unless the Council votes to extend it or until Mr. Annan reports that "a peaceful definitive settlement of the conflict" between Eritrea and Ethiopia has been reached. Most Council members argue that Mr. Annan has not yet issued such a report. 
But Western diplomats said this weekend that the former national security adviser Anthony Lake and Assistant Secretary of State Susan Rice, who brokered the peace accord, apparently promised Ethiopia that the arms embargo would be lifted once the peace accord was signed. 
Ethiopia and and Eritrea continue to trade accusations daily over details of the accord. 
Under the agreement, Ethiopia is to pull back to positions it held before the war broke out, and Eritrea is to withdraw to 15 miles from Ethiopian positions. But the two nations are still arguing over which areas were under whose administration before the war broke out.
The accord also calls for an independent commission to demarcate the 600-mile border, while other commissions are to address compensation for war damages, an exchange of prisoners and the return of people displaced from their homes. The work of the border commission is expected to last three years. 
Tens of thousands of soldiers were killed in World War I-style trench warfare during the conflict, and tens of thousands of others were taken prisoner or uprooted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); ARMS EMBARGOES (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); WORLD WAR I (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SUSAN RICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ETHIOPIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); ERITREA (94%); AFRICA (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%) ERITREA; ETHIOPIA

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



184 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Firm Hand on Heating Gas Worries Its Neighbors 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
When President Eduard A. Shevardnadze of Georgia had to send his energy minister to Moscow last week to beg for a resumption of natural gas to keep the heat and lights on in Tbilisi, shivers went through the corridors of capitals across the Caucasus.
 Russia's willingness to cut off vital gas supplies to Georgia is seen in the region as a message that Moscow is determined to use its extensive gas and oil supplies as leverage to rebuild its dominant Soviet-era role. 
 Georgian officials say Russia is pressing Mr. Shevardnadze to rescind his demand that Russian troops be withdrawn from Georgia, a former Soviet republic. Two of Russia's four bases are scheduled to be closed by July, but Georgian officials said the Russians are pressing for a 15-year extension on closing any of them. 
Russia also contends that Georgia is providing support for rebels over its border in separatist Chechnya. Relations between the two countries are at an all-time low, Georgian officials say.
In nearby Azerbaijan, another former Soviet land, there is growing concern about shipments of Russian weapons to neighboring Armenia. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia is scheduled to make his first trip to Baku, the Azerbaijani capital, this week, where President Heydar Aliyev plans to argue that the shipments threaten regional stability.
"Everyone is very worried about Russia's intentions," a senior Azerbaijani diplomat said in anticipation of Mr. Putin's visit.
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union a decade ago, its former republics in the Caucasus and Central Asia have struggled to make a transition to democracy and to wean themselves from the centralized economy that dominated the region from Moscow for 70 years. The shortages of gas for electricity and heat that have plagued the region are a stark reminder that success has been mixed at best.
Electricity shortages are common throughout the former Soviet bloc. Albania and Yugoslavia have suffered through long and painful power cuts this winter. 
The main reason is last summer's drought, which left hydroelectric plants too low on water to generate sufficient electricity. But the countries also have aging generating plants and spotty supplies for gas-fired generating plants.
The problems are perhaps clearest in Georgia, which is dependent on Russia for gas. It has already had public protests this winter over chronic shortages of electricity, which is used for heat by three quarters of the population.
With Georgia already restive over economic conditions, Mr. Shevardnadze can ill afford the unrest likely to be caused by further electricity cuts. The Russian company that supplies gas for Georgia's main power generators cut off supplies in early December. The company, Inertgazstroi, said the American corporation providing electricity to Tbilisi was paying too little for the Russian gas. The American company, AES Corporation, agreed to a 10 percent increase, and the supply resumed.
On Jan. 1, Inertgazstroi again cut supplies, saying it acted under orders from the Russian government. 
By Wednesday, AES was down to a few hours of gas for the main generator west of Tbilisi. Shutting it down would have left Tbilisi and the rest of the country without electricity except for such basic operations as hospitals and bread factories.
"We are caught up in a geopolitical squeeze, and there is no legitimate reason for our gas supply being suspended," Michael Scholey, the AES director in Tbilisi, said in a telephone interview.
David Mirtskhulava, the Georgian energy minister, reached a last-minute agreement with another Russian company, Itera, to sell gas to Georgia, which prevented a shutdown, at least for the time being.
Russia's readiness to use energy supplies as political leverage poses a potentially difficult issue for the Bush administration if it expects to continue the previous American policy of minimizing Russian influence in the region, particularly over energy matters.
An executive with a major Western energy company in the region said the Russian gambits underlined the necessity of ensuring that Caspian Sea oil and gas flow to the West through pipelines that bypass Russia. The primary means under development is a pipeline from Baku through Tbilisi to the Turkish port of Ceyhan.
But officials in Turkey and the Caucasus last week expressed concerns over the fate of the pipeline after President-elect George W. Bush selected former Senator Spencer Abraham, regarded as an opponent of the pipeline, to be energy secretary. 
Turkish and Azerbaijani officials said they were worried that the new administration might heed old complaints that the pipeline is too expensive and cooperate with Russia, or even Iran, on alternative routes.

GRAPHIC: Map of Georgia shows the location of Tbilisi: An American company, AES, provides electricity to Tbilisi. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); MILITARY BASES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); DROUGHT (61%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES 

COMPANY: AES CORP (84%)

TICKER: AES (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) FRANTZ, DOUGLAS; SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) GEORGIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); CAUCASIAN STATES (93%); AZERBAIJAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); ARMENIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%) GEORGIA; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



185 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases; 
The Kindness of Strangers Helps Ease a Family's Pain

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
Like many 13-year-old boys, Xavier Valdez loved to play video games, particularly WrestleMania 2000 and a baseball game, Triple Play 2000. And, like many boys growing up in the Bronx, he was a big fan of the New York Yankees.
 Xavier's father, Raymon, bought him a Playstation 2 the day after Xavier underwent surgery for scoliosis in October at the Hospital for Special Surgery on the Upper East Side. Xavier had inexplicably fallen into a coma after the surgery, but his father was sure he would wake up soon and begin playing games again. 
 Xavier was no stranger to surgery. He had spina bifida, a birth defect in which the spine fails to develop properly during the first month of pregnancy, and hydrocephalus, a related complication that causes fluid to build up in the brain unless a removal device called a shunt is implanted. He had had four operations to straighten limbs and repair his spine by the time he was 9. But Xavier failed to wake up after the scoliosis operation, and a week and a half later, he died.
"It was a shock," Xavier's half-sister, Alexandra Mordan, 25, said recently. "They said there was only a little risk, and now he's not with us anymore."
Xavier's mother, Maria Valdez, 43, could not work because she had to stay home to take care of him. Mr. Valdez and his wife are separated, and he is unemployed, Ms. Mordan said. The family survived on Ms. Mordan's salary from her job as a secretary, about $400 a week, plus $500 a month in Supplemental Security Income for Xavier and about $100 a month in public assistance received by Ms. Valdez.
After Xavier's death, the family wanted a traditional funeral for him but did not have enough money to pay the $3,000 cost. Ms. Mordan asked her boss for a loan of $2,500, which she received. She asked Shauna Bevar, a social worker with New Alternatives for Children, a Manhattan nonprofit company that had been helping the family care for Xavier for three years, if the company would pay the remaining $500. New Alternatives provides recreational, social and financial services to children with major medical needs and to their families.
Ms. Bevar told Ms. Mordan she would try to find a way to give her the money. After a number of frustrating phone calls, she contacted Judy Milone at the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, one of the seven local charities supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Ms. Milone gave $500 from the Neediest Cases Fund to help the family.
"She was so flexible and really had a lot of compassion for what the family needed," Ms. Bevar said.
Arlene Goldsmith, director of New Alternatives for Children, said, "A funeral is not an easy thing to get money for."
The day after Xavier's surgery, the Yankees won the Subway Series against the Mets. Xavier's father and other family and friends went to the hospital to tell him.
His father also told him that he had bought a Playstation for him. "He said, 'Listen up, we brought you a Playstation, so get well soon,' " Ms. Mordan recalled.
After Xavier died, Mr. Valdez put the Yankee cap he had purchased for him into his coffin, and gave the Playstation 2 to Edward Valdez, 13, who used to play video games with Xavier.
Ms. Mordan said that she missed her half-brother. "The only hope is to see him again some day," she said. "They say when you die you're all going to be together again. I hope so."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of the Qpass digital commerce service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest. Online donors receive a free trial subscription to the crossword puzzle of The New York Times on the Web.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded $6,214,096.35
Recorded Thursday 124,665.48
Total $6,338,761.83
Last year to date $4,644,970.61

GRAPHIC: Photo: Xavier Valdez, who loved video games and the Yankees, died at 13. The Neediest Cases Fund helped his family pay for a funeral. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (86%); MEDICAL DEVICES (76%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (76%); SPINA BIFIDA (74%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); FAMILY (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CHARITIES (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (61%) NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%)

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON; VALDEZ, XAVIER 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



186 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1523 words

HEADLINE: Ecuador Is Fearful As Colombia's War Spills Over Border 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: LAGO AGRIO, Ecuador, Jan. 3 

 BODY:
Every country bordering Colombia fears that as the conflict there worsens and United States involvement grows, violence and coca cultivation will spill across the frontier into their territory. But in this dingy Amazon border town, that dreaded scenario has already become a reality.
 Hardly a day goes by now without right-wing paramilitary fighters and leftist guerrillas, ostensibly here on leave, killing each other on the streets or in bars. 
 Refugees fleeing the intensifying combat in southern Colombia are also showing up and, as if in anticipation of the Washington-backed anti-drug offensive the Colombian government is to begin soon, affluent Colombians with no ties to this area are suddenly buying up land and stocking up on chemicals used to process cocaine.
Of all of Colombia's neighbors, Ecuador is perhaps the most vulnerable, least prepared and worst equipped to deal with such developments. 
Five presidents in five years are the best indication of the political instability in this Andean nation of 12.5 million, whose situation is further complicated by dire poverty, the highest inflation in the Western Hemisphere and a military better known for meddling in politics than valor in combat.
"If Colombia is going to be another Vietnam, as everyone keeps saying, then Ecuador is going to become the Cambodia of this war," Maximo Abad Jaramillo, the mayor here, warned. "We are not ready for this war, we don't want to be a part of it, but we are being dragged into the conflict against our will."
In December alone, the local police say, 20 people were killed here, 15 of them in clashes among Colombians and 5 who died when a bomb exploded in an attack on an oil pipeline that runs from Lago Agrio to the Pacific and is the main source of Ecuador's export earnings.
In the most spectacular of the slayings, a Colombian paramilitary trooper was shot dead in front of police headquarters by two men on a motorcycle.
Almost since its founding, Lago Agrio has been a service center for the oil industry, whose employees have flocked to the bars, discotheques, pool halls, karaoke parlors, cabarets and brothels that have proliferated here. 
But those are now filled not with roustabouts but with wary young men whose Colombian accents, lean bodies, close-cropped hair and expensive military-style boots suggest that they are fighters on furlough.
Lago Agrio, whose name means sour lake in Spanish, also boasts an unusual number of medical clinics and doctors' and dentists' offices for a town with only 25,000 residents. Combatants from both sides are often brought here from Colombia for treatment, along with coca plantation workers who have been made ill by the noxious chemicals used to process their crop into cocaine.
In an effort to minimize conflicts between guerrillas from the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, and paramilitary fighters, some of the brothels and various other establishments catering to guerrillas are marked with the image of Che Guevara superimposed on a red star. 
But residents say conditions have deteriorated sharply as a result of Plan Colombia, the anti-drug campaign devised by Colombia and the United States.
"With all the violence, threats and even kidnappings, our situation has become really grave in the past four or five months," said Amparo de Cordova, president of Fuerzas Vivas, a coalition of neighborhood and professional groups here. "The Colombians have always brought their quarrels over here with them, but now their violence is political and subversive, and our authorities seem powerless to stop it."
Taking advantage of the growing tensions, Colombians from outside the border zone are buying up ranches and farms in the area from Ecuadoreans who fear the worst and are eager to leave. 
In some instances the outsiders offer to pay above the market value for properties, but in other cases, recently displaced landowners say, they have not hesitated to threaten violence to gain control of especially desirable pieces of property.
"I just hope to God that they aren't planning on growing coca on those farms as a substitute for the plantations that are going to be fumigated over on the other side," said Fernando Lucas, president of the local chamber of commerce. "Because the moment that happens, we are going to have a real disaster on our hands here."
Ecuadorean officials say they have uncovered and destroyed several small cocaine processing labs in the Amazon region in recent months. Local peasants have crossed the border in recent years to work in the cocaine business, drawn by salaries that are up to five times the minimum wage paid here, and are now returning with the drug know-how they have acquired in Colombia.
The United States authorized $1.3 billion in emergency aid last year to strengthen Colombia's ability to fight drug trafficking. 
Anticipating some spillover from Colombia to Ecuador, the United States has designated $40 million for expenditure here in the next two years, mostly for "social infrastructure" projects, according to the American Embassy in Quito. Ecuador's foreign minister, Heinz Moeller, recently visited Washington to plead for an aid package that could total $300 million.
Unlike Venezuela and Brazil, the Ecuadorean government has closely aligned itself with the anti-drug offensive through such measures as setting up an American drug surveillance base in the coastal city of Manta, which FARC leaders have said they consider "a declaration of war."
But Ecuador's own security forces appear eager to avoid conflict and largely unable to defend themselves.
"You go to the army, and they tell you they don't have the manpower, the vehicles or even the gasoline" to prevent Colombian incursions across the border," a civic leader here complained. "You go to the police, and they show you their guns and tell you that they don't even have bullets. We have been left unprotected here."
Nor is the Ecuadorean or American government providing help in dealing with a growing refugee problem. As of Dec. 31, nearly 2,100 Colombians had fled the fighting just across the border and registered with the Roman Catholic Church in Lago Agrio, which is aiding the evacuees in conjunction with a newly opened office of the United Nations high commissioner for refugees.
"We've been averaging about 100 people a week since September," said the Rev. Edgar Pinos, the church's refugee coordinator here, "but we are worried, because we expect the anti-drug campaign to start in earnest this month. In the event of a massive flow, we are going to need more help with food and lodging, because our capacity is limited."
To complicate things further, several of the mayors along the border, including the one in Lago Agrio, are leftists who, if not openly supporting the FARC, are sympathetic to its program. 
"We cannot argue that any group or person has a right to kill," Mr. Abad said. "But the struggle for equality and the defense of justice is a good thing."
Just before Christmas, President Gustavo Noboa, who took office a year ago after a military coup, said he might be forced to declare a state of emergency in the border region if attacks on the oil pipeline and other installations continued. 
Under the Ecuadorean Constitution, that would allow him to replace the civilian governors of border provinces with military officers, as has been suggested, and suspend some civil liberties.
"God forbid that terrorism comes to Ecuador," Mr. Noboa warned at a news conference in Quito. "I want to advise you that I am not going to allow the nation to lose its calm and peace. If I have to declare a state of emergency and apply the national security laws, I will."
But Mr. Abad warned that such an action "would only add fuel to the fire in this vulnerable zone." 
The recent surge in the fighting has devastated the economy in this market town. Unable to obtain basic supplies from their usual sources because of skirmishes and roadblocks that have interrupted normal trade routes, the residents of Putumayo Province in Colombia have turned in desperation to merchants here, who are unable to meet the increased demand.
As a result, the price of rice and other staples like sugar, cooking oil, salt and beans has skyrocketed and there have also been runs on gasoline and pharmaceuticals. "A 100-pound bag of rice that sold for $16 in August was fetching as much as $38 by December," Mrs. de Cordova complained.
At the same time, sales of the products that Colombians have traditionally bought here in normal times have plummeted and credit has dried up. Mr. Lucas, who owns a company that distributes detergents and cosmetics, estimates that his sales have fallen as much as 70 percent in recent months and fears that things are going to become even more unsettled.
"For the Colombians this part of Ecuador has always been useful as a rest stop, as a place to treat their sick and wounded, to spend a weekend or to resupply themselves," Mr. Lucas said. "We can only hope that they do not want to turn this into another combat zone and make us targets, because we are not the ones who created this problem. All we want is an end to the bloodshed."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Colombian family that fled the violence in Putumayo Province shared a mattress in Lago Agrio, Ecuador, a border town that is feeling the strain. (Associated Press)(pg. A10) Map of Ecuador shows the location of Lago Agrio: Lago Agrio is suffering as the Colombian drug war spills over. (pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MAYORS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (63%); EXPORT TRADE (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) COLOMBIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-ECUADOR; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (99%); ECUADOR (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%) ECUADOR; COLOMBIA; LAGO AGRIO (ECUADOR)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



187 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: For Teenagers, Fast Food Is a Snack, Not a Job 

BYLINE:  By DIRK JOHNSON 

DATELINE: WOODSTOCK, Ill. 

 BODY:
His friends were at the movies and the mall, or at home playing video games. But Dave Neuzil was busy at work, piling lettuce and tomatoes on submarine sandwiches. It was a job, he said, that his friends would not be caught dead doing.
 "It's not considered cool, working at a fast-food place," said Dave, a lanky 16-year-old in a green Subway shirt. "Their parents just give them everything. But I need to make some money." 
 In these prosperous times, with young people so keenly aware of status and image, Dave Neuzil has become something of a vanishing breed: a suburban upper-middle-class teenager willing to work at a cheap restaurant.
With so many jobs going begging, young people are turning up their noses at jobs at fast-food restaurants, places that once relied mostly on high school students for help. In the teenage work world these days, holding a job deemed uncool can risk a social sting as wages have become secondary to cachet.
"Some kids will give you heat for working in a place like this," said Jim LaRose, 21, a Subway manager in the western suburbs of Chicago. "They'll say, 'What are you working at a fast-food place for?' And when they come in to order, some of these kids are very arrogant."
It can be humbling for a teenager, outfitted in a franchise uniform, to wait on peers who drive up in fancy cars and give orders. Dave Neuzil, the son of a police officer and a grammar school principal, says he just shrugs it off. But, he acknowledged, his girlfriend sometimes becomes disappointed when he cannot take her to a movie because he needs to work on a Saturday night.
The hierarchy of jobs is clear to most teenagers, with places like Starbucks or Gap at the top, and places like McDonald's and Burger King at the bottom.
Melissa Maier, a 17-year-old high school senior in Evanston, Ill., summed up the prevailing attitude among suburban teenagers. 
"You don't want to work with food," Melissa said. "Everybody knows that."
Even to Dave Neuzil, Subway was seen as acceptable, but fast-food restaurants with deep-fat fryers would be out of the question.
"I would never work at a McDonald's," he said. "And when I was looking for a job, my brother warned me not to take a job at a McDonald's or a Burger King. I guess he thought it would bring down his reputation to have a brother working at a place like that."
Given the views of most teenagers, especially those from middle-class backgrounds, the jobs at McDonald's and Burger King often fall to poor immigrants and older workers. And when teenagers see a restaurant staffed mostly by immigrants, the status of these jobs descends yet another notch in their eyes.
Albert Hunter, a sociologist at Northwestern University who studies upper-middle-class families, said the notion that all work was respectable, even noble, had taken a beating.
"The term 'flipping burgers' has entered the popular culture to mean the lowest kind of unskilled work," Professor Hunter said. "And teenagers are aware of all the negative connotations that go with it."
In many towns along Lake Michigan north of Chicago, he said, it is the rare son or daughter who mows the lawn at home, manual labor that has become regarded as fit only for immigrants.
Some 28 percent of all teenagers in the United States say they earn money from part-time jobs, says Michael Wood, a vice president of Teenage Research Unlimited, a marketing concern in Northbrook, Ill.
"It is obvious that young people have become much more selective in the kinds of jobs they're willing to take," Mr. Wood said. "Try to find a baby sitter on a Saturday night, or a kid who is willing to make a few bucks shoveling your sidewalk. The bottom line is that they don't need the money. The economy has been good to their parents, and there's a trickle-down effect here."
The unwillingness of young workers to "flip burgers" does not mean that most teenagers are spending their spare time shopping and lollygagging. On the contrary, school counselors say, many ambitious high school students are so busy studying and doing community service -- often to build a resume for college admission -- that they simply do not have time for a part-time job.
Ray Jamiolkowski, the director of guidance at Naperville Central High School, said his school made a rule to keep hard-charging students from scheduling so many classes that they did not leave room for lunch.
"There's not a whole lot of lying around going on," Mr. Jamiolkowski said. "If anything, they're doing too much, and they're stressed. We see kids that try to keep all of these balls in the air, and then they just can't take the pressure anymore. They become brittle, or they become a puddle of emotions."
Dani Newcombe, a high school senior in Evanston, Ill., is one of those students who is too busy to work. She participates in soccer, cross country and basketball. She works on the yearbook and the school newspaper, and sometimes does not get home from after-school activities until 11 p.m. And then there is studying to be done.
"I have some friends who are up until 1 a.m. studying almost every night," she said. "I can't do that. I need some sleep."
But even among those students who have time for work, the computer-driven economy has upended the traditional notion that young people must start at the bottom, according to scholars.
It is not uncommon for high school students today to make money designing Web pages or programming computers.
In the view of Mr. Wood, the market researcher, young people today have grown up seeing that technology can be harnessed to do the old, drudgery-filled work, a transformation that has made manual labor seem all the less appealing.
"Teenagers today see the sky is the limit in terms of their future," he said. "They recognize that technology is the key. And they have mastered it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dave Neuzil, 16, who works at Subway, said his friends would never take such a job. "Their parents just give them everything," he said. (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (93%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SUBURBS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); CHILDREN (78%); OLDER WORKERS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (68%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); IMMIGRATION (60%); REFUGEES (60%); FOOD INDUSTRY (59%) LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; RESTAURANTS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; OLDER WORKERS 

COMPANY: BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (86%); MCDONALD'S CORP (85%)

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (86%); MCD (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (86%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (86%)

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; HUNTER, ALBERT (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



188 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
Falloff in Ads Is Taking Toll On Magazines

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI and STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
The magazine industry has been wringing its hands for the last year over a number of issues: rising paper and postage costs, increasingly demanding and complex distribution channels, sinking subscription rates and falling newsstand sales.
 But rather than being pummeled by the combined doomsday forces, the industry appeared to soar, buoyed by an outlandishly healthy advertising market. Advertisers swooped in and dropped a protective cloak over magazine land, their beneficence masking all the nasty problems. 
 Now, it appears that the last leg of support -- advertising -- has been weakened, creating some serious concern among industry executives and analysts, though there is hope that the Federal Reserve's move to cut interest rates will bolster the market, as was evident in the jump by media stocks last week Page 13 . 
The news has been scary. In the last month of 2000, The Industry Standard, the technology magazine, folded its monthly supplement Grok into the weekly magazine, citing a lack of advertising sufficient to sustain it as a stand-alone publication. Then Imagine Media folded Fuse, a lifestyle magazine for the new economy, after one issue, with one stated reason being a lack of interest from advertisers.
And before the first week of 2001 ended, there were two more casualties: Offspring, a joint venture between Hearst Magazines and Dow Jones & Company, and George, the magazine founded by John F. Kennedy Jr. in 1995, published by the Lagardere Group's Hachette Filipacchi Magazines unit.
Ronald A. Galotti, president and publisher of Talk magazine, said that after such a spectacular boom, there is nowhere to go but down.
"It has been a ride and half," he said. "It's been 10 years of boom. Are numbers going to be off this year? Maybe. Will publishers be able to make up missing ad pages? Probably not. Are people going to be cranky? Yes."
The outlook for ad spending in magazines is suddenly far murkier than it was only a month ago, when a widely followed advertising forecaster predicted an orderly deceleration from the torrid pace of 2000.
Robert Coen, senior vice president and forecasting director at Universal McCann in New York, estimated that magazine ad spending in 2001 would increase 5 percent from 2000, compared with an increase of 8 percent in 2000 from 1999. Even with that slowing of the growth rate, Mr. Coen forecast a record total for magazine ad spending of almost $13 billion this year, compared with $12.3 billion in 2000. Universal McCann is part of the McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising unit of the McCann-Erickson World Group, owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Since Mr. Coen's forecast in early December, signs have mounted that the slowdown could come more quickly and be more severe than expected. "The consumer is getting much more cautious," said Valerie Muller, senior vice president and director for print services at MediaCom in New York, the media agency owned by the Grey Global Group. 
As a result, there is now growing weakness in sales of high-volume consumer goods. That only adds to the weakness created by belt-tightening among dot-coms and technology advertisers.
"As sales get depressed, the first thing cut is often advertising," said Carla Loffredo, strategic planning director at MindShare in New York, a media services agency owned by the WPP Group.
There may be a silver lining in the dark clouds, she added, in that "a lot of retailers may continue to promote -- to get rid of inventory."
In niche categories like technology magazines and automotive magazines, Ms. Loffredo said, cutbacks in ad spending augur poorly for weaker publications as those marketers still buying ad pages "decide 'I don't need the third book in a category; I can live with the first two.' "
Dan Capell, a magazine-business analyst, echoed her outlook.
"The ad climate has been so good, it has covered up the problems" for second- and third-tier magazines, said Mr. Capell, editor of Capell's Circulation Report in Ridgewood, N.J. 
In an advertising downturn, special-interest magazines could get hurt even more than their general-interest counterparts, Mr. Capell said. "Most of their advertising is endemic to the market they're in," he noted, "so the issue then becomes do you cut back on circulation, which you pumped up in order to cash in on the ad climate or spend more to maintain your circulation?"
Not all publishers are equally affected by a downturn in ad spending. "Properties produced for their readership value are always safe because readers want them," Ms. Muller said. "In economic times like these," she added, "quality is going to win."
But exactly what type of economic times are we in?
The Federal Reserve's decision last week to cut interest rates may restimulate consumer spending and thus improve the picture for magazines, said Jeanne Tassaro, executive vice president and director for print at Media Edge in New York, the media services unit of Young & Rubicam Advertising, part of the Young & Rubicam division of WPP.
"We're going to see a slowdown, but we need to keep that in context," Ms. Tassaro said. "We've come off tremendous growth, so it's not unexpected that such growth would at some point have to slow down. And in a lot of magazine categories, a lot of that growth came rather unexpectedly and took a lot of publishers by surprise.
"In some cases, they may have gotten used to ad pages flowing in with little effort," she added, "so now they may need to make a much greater effort."
The workhorse of the Internet magazines, The Industry Standard, which last year regularly posted massive increases in advertising pages each month, is now feeling the effects of the dot-com downturn. The magazine's parent company, Standard Media International, is expected to announce today that it will cut dozens of staff positions, mostly from noneditorial departments, according to a report on Friday on the media-news Web site Inside.com. Jonathan Weber, the editor in chief of The Industry Standard, said he had no comment. 
John Huey, the managing editor of Fortune magazine, predicted waves of magazine closings. 
"There has been so much froth going on for so long," he said. "We have all been saying that when the moment of truth comes, there's going to be a lot of 'el foldo' out there, and now we're there." 
Mr. Huey's own spinoff, eCompany Now, created nervous reaction from some readers who saw that the January and February issues had been combined into one. But Ned Desmond, the magazine's managing editor, said the combined issue was part of the initial publication plan and should not cause too much concern. ("This is a lousy time of year," Mr. Desmond said. "Seasonally, it is the worst.")
On the cautiously optimistic side of the industry, Daniel B. Brewster, chief executive of the Bertelsmann magazine unit, Gruner & Jahr, said that the downturn in advertising was not a cause for alarm. 
Mr. Brewster said publishers needed to keep a diverse stable of magazines. "You've always got certain categories that go through boom and bust," he said, "and ideally you've got a portfolio of magazines that is able to balance all that advertising."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hachette Filipacchi's George was an early casualty in 2001. (pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); POSTAL RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NEWSSTANDS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (72%); NEW ECONOMY (69%); JOINT VENTURES (51%) MAGAZINES; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); HEARST CORP (83%); LAGARDERE SCA (82%); DOW JONES & CO INC (67%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (61%); MCCANN-ERICKSON WORLDWIDE INC (51%)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); MMB (PAR) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (82%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (82%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (67%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (67%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (61%)

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX; ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



189 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA: Market Place; 
Media stocks respond to the lowering of interest rates and what that may mean for ads.

BYLINE:  By Geraldine Fabrikant 

 BODY:
IN a week in which even the Federal Reserve wizard, Alan Greenspan, could not conjure a sustained stock market rally, media stocks rose more and remained higher than most others. While most stock indexes fell back into negative territory by Friday's close, an index of 43 top media companies ended the week up 8.3 percent.
 The Bloomberg Media Index, which includes newspaper, radio, cable and cable programming companies (including The New York Times Company), was at 106 last Tuesday, the day before the market rally precipitated by news on Wednesday afternoon that Mr. Greenspan and his colleagues at the Fed approved an interest rate cut. 
 On Thursday, the media index again headed higher, even as the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite index were slipping. On Friday, the media index did turn downward, ending the week at 120.10, and it is anyone's guess what media stocks will do this week.
But investors' response to last week's Fed move gave an interesting insight into the psychology that can drive media stocks.
In the media industry, of course, advertising is the crucial -- and often, the only -- revenue component. "If interest rates come down, then people can afford high-ticket items and advertisers pump up their spending," noted Robert Coen, the forecasting director at the advertising agency Universal McCann.
In other words, few other industries are so directly linked to public confidence in the economy -- and thus able to so quickly benefit from, or be dragged down by, changes in the public mood.
"Advertiser-driven stocks are leading indicators," noted Michael Kupinski, who follows media companies for the investment firm of A. G. Edwards. "They will drop in anticipation of a recession and rise in anticipation of a recovery."
True to the trend, as fears of a recession gripped the market in December, the media index hit a recent low of 105.42 on Dec. 20, down 13.5 percent from a peak of 121.82 only seven days earlier. 
Then last Wednesday, when Mr. Greenspan ignited hopes of a short-lived economic downturn, media stocks became downright giddy.
Entertainment companies, which provide the public with affordable amusements like music, movies and TV programs, were once considered recession-proof, making them good investments in a slow economy. No more. As entertainment and media companies have merged, many are more dependent on advertising revenue. 
Mr. Kupinski, who was warning last summer that a recession could batter media stocks, sees last week's upturn as justified. "We feel that slower growth and lower expectations are already built into stock prices," he said. "We feel that the economy will be healthy and that the comparisons will be fairly decent." 
That said, some media companies are taking steps to cut costs -- particularly at Internet operations that are not yet profitable. For example, New York Times Digital, the Internet division of the Times Company, is laying off about 70 employees, or about 17 percent of its work force, people at the unit said over the weekend. And last Thursday, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation said it would eliminate several hundred jobs in its Internet division, News Digital Media.
Michael J. Wolf, senior partner for media and entertainment at Booz Allen Hamilton, sees a reasonably good year ahead for media companies. "Advertisers won't cut back as much as people say," he said. "They may slow down, but they are concerned that in a slower economy they have to create demand."
Still, the continued potential for an economic downturn, or even recession, despite the Fed's intervention was reflected in the resumed slump of the broader stock indexes late last week.
"Much of the bad news is known, but not how long it will last," cautioned Edward Hatch, a media analyst at SG Cowen. "How big is the valley, and are investors willing to look over it? I would not say that the stocks are out of the woods. Investors need to be mindful of that."
They should be mindful, too, that economic hopes and fears do not fully explain the recent behavior of media stocks.
"Disney went from $37 in November to $26 a share in December and then back up to $31 this week with no change in fundamentals," said David Londoner, a media analyst at ABN Amro. "When a stock moves like that, you wonder whether it is institutions and day traders that are just trading on momentum," he said. "It is true the government can lower interest rates, but changes don't happen that quickly. You have to look out a year or so."
To several media analysts, much of last week's media rebound was traceable to short sellers -- investors who bet that a stock's price will fall. Short sellers, by this theory, helped drive media stocks to abnormally low levels in December. With Wednesday's good news, the rush to cover those short positions pushed the stocks up. 
Whatever the fate of the economy in coming months, the question for media investors this week is whether the current prices of their stocks are justified by the fundamentals -- or whether media stocks will follow the rest of the market and give back all their gains.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Media Pick-Me Up"Stocks for media companies rose more and stayed higher than most other stocks after the Federal Reserve cut the target interest rate last Wednesday. Graph shows changes in the Bloomberg Media index, the Dow Industrials, and the Nasdaq Composite through the week. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); BONDS (77%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); MUSIC (71%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ADVERTISING; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (83%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%) FABRIKANT, GERALDINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



190 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Offerings Scheduled for the Week 

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week is confined to today's regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills and a 10-year Treasury inflation-pegged security on Wednesday.
 By the close of the New York cash market on Friday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 4.94 percent and a six-month bill was 4.79 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAXABLE
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
BRE Properties, $200 million notes due 2010, Baa2/ BBB/---, C.S. First Boston and UBS Securities.

Citigroup, $2 billion of global notes due 2005, Aa2/ AA-/---, Salomon Smith Barney.

DaimlerChrysler NA Holding, $4 billion of dollars, sterling and euro global notes, A2/A/---, Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown

Source: MCM CorporateWatch
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.

TAX EXEMPT
TUESDAY

Ohio State Common School Facility, $200 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

South Carolina School District, $250 million of debt securities. Competitive.

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK

American Municipal Power, $52 million of debt securities. Paine Webber Inc.

California Housing Finance Authority, $50 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.

Harris County, Tex., $58 million of refunding and revenue debt securities. Siebert Brandford Shank & Co.

Port of Seattle, $65 million of debt securities for Northwest Airlines. Salomon Smith Barney.

University of Central Florida, $146 million of debt securities for student housing. George K. Baum & Co.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); AIRLINES (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); BONDS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); STUDENT HOUSING (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (69%); GEORGE K BAUM & CO (66%); BRE PROPERTIES INC (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (56%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BRE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



191 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Putin Tells Schroder He'll Pay Soviet Debt 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
The German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, left Moscow tonight like a smiling creditor who got what he wanted from President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, who saw off his guest with an affirmative airport declaration: "We intend to pay and will pay the debts of the former Soviet Union." About $20 billion of the $48 billion in Soviet-era debt is held by Germany. 
 After a festive weekend of negotiation, religious services celebrating the Eastern Orthodox Christmas, motor touring and even sleigh riding through the snowy Russian countryside, the two leaders, and their wives, Doris and Lyudmila, parted company today in high spirits. But neither indicated that a solution had been found to Russia's imminent default on $1.5 billion in debt payments due in the first quarter of the year. 
 Mr. Putin seemed to be smiling tonight because Mr. Schroder said he and the Russian leader were still discussing ideas about how to convert part of that debt into investments in Russian industries, an idea that Mr. Putin favors. Negotiations are expected to be stepped up this month, both leaders said.
"No one in the world has an interest in placing Russia's economy in a situation where it will not be able to honor its international obligations," Mr. Putin said, explaining that 25 percent of Russian budget expenditures this year will go to debt and interest payments. 
Mr. Schroder said nothing to disagree, and the tenor of parting remarks suggested that a compromise was possible along the lines of Russia's making a substantial payment this year as warranted by its strengthening economy, while some debt is rescheduled or converted into investments in Russian industries. 
But Mr. Putin acknowledged the strong political pull on Mr. Schroder on the debt issue, saying, "At one point in our conversation, the chancellor told me that friendship is one thing, but duty is duty." Though Mr. Putin said nothing more about the context of the remark, it clearly signified the German position that stronger ties between Berlin and Moscow will not translate into debt forgiveness and that Mr. Schroder, as his government said in a statement this week, expects Russia to live up to its obligations. 
The parting remarks by the two leaders did not touch on how each was looking to the incoming administration in Washington, or President-elect George W. Bush's proposal to build a national missile defense shield. Mr. Putin said, "It was very important for me to learn and hear, personally, from one of Europe's leaders, how Germany sees the development of relations between the European Union and Russia and between Russia and Germany." 
Both leaders endorsed further medical studies into the possible health effects from NATO's use of depleted uranium ammunition during the 1999 offensive in the Balkans. 
But Mr. Putin went further, criticizing NATO's intervention by saying, "The use of force in Yugoslavia, or anywhere in Europe in the 20th and the 21st centuries is absolutely unacceptable." Mr. Schroder just smiled and left for home. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CHRISTMAS (71%); RELIGION (71%); TRENDS (67%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CREDIT 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%); GERHARD SCHRODER (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); TYLER, PATRICK E 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%) RUSSIA; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



192 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan Is Likely to Ask the U.S. to Sell It 4 Destroyers 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
Taiwan has signaled that it may ask the Bush administration to sell it four Kidd-class guided-missile destroyers to counter China's recently purchased Russian-made destroyers, the second of which is now steaming toward the Taiwan Strait.
 The request, likely to be made before the United States and Taiwan hold annual talks on arms sales in April, would present George W. Bush with his first major challenge in managing the delicate balance of relations between China and Taiwan. 
 Under the Taiwan Relations Act of 1979, the United States is obligated to help Taiwan maintain its defenses. Mr. Bush has indicated in the past that he will be more aggressive in fulfilling that obligation than was the Clinton administration, which declined to sell Arleigh Burke-class destroyers to Taiwan last year. 
The Kidd-class destroyers carry more modest weapons and radar systems than the Arleigh Burke-class destroyers, but the ships would nonetheless be the largest and most powerful in Taiwan's navy.
In Washington, Scott McClellan, a spokesman for the Bush presidential transition committee, said today, "The president-elect believes it is important for the United States to speak with one voice in foreign policy, and until Jan. 20, that voice is the Clinton administration."
China is certain to object to any such sale, which would be the most significant weapons transfer by the United States to Taiwan since Mr. Bush's father sold the island 150 advanced F-16 fighter aircraft in 1992. 
That sale, which China said breached a 1982 joint communique not to increase the quantity or quality of arms sold to Taiwan, angered Beijing and cost some American companies business that went to European competitors instead.
Tensions between China and Taiwan increased after the election of Chen Shui-bian as Taiwan's president last year. In the past he had advocated declaring outright independence from China, which considers Taiwan part of its sovereign territory.
He has since softened his stance, saying Taiwan would declare independence only if attacked. But Beijing has threatened to use force to bring the island under mainland control if Taiwan's government fails to show good faith in negotiating unification in a timely fashion.
Taiwan tried easing tensions last week by allowing direct travel and trade between the mainland and two heavily fortified outlying islands just off China's coast. 
Beijing wants direct links with the main island of Taiwan itself, but Taiwan fears that its economy might grow too dependent on China.
China hinted on Saturday that it might soften its demand that Mr. Chen explicitly accept the "one China" principle before negotiating such direct links. That would require Mr. Chen to acknowledge Taiwan as an inseparable part of China, which he has so far refused to do.
In an article published by China Daily, the country's official English-language newspaper, a government official said Mr. Chen's government could negotiate direct links without making such a statement if the links themselves "operated as the domestic matters of one country instead of as state-to-state affairs."
But Taiwan is not letting down its guard.
Mr. Chen said in August that the island should begin considering new purchases of fighter aircraft to counter the advanced Russian-made jets that China is expected to receive this year.
And on Friday, the commander in chief of Taiwan's navy, Adm. Lee Chieh, was quoted by Taiwan's Central News Agency as saying that the Pentagon had recommended that Taiwan acquire the Kidd-class destroyers to replace the island's World War II-era Gearing-class destroyers. 
The four Kidd-class destroyers, costing a total of about $600 million, would give Taiwan's navy a chance to train for an eventual purchase of the Arleigh Burke-class destroyers, which cost 10 times as much, the admiral was quoted as saying.
President Clinton deferred deciding on Taiwan's request for the Arleigh Burke destroyers last April, in part because of Beijing's strong opposition to such a sale. 
The Arleigh Burke ships are equipped with Tomahawk cruise missiles and Aegis radar systems, which are capable of tracking more than 100 targets simultaneously. Weapons experts say the Aegis system could someday be adapted for use in the kind of theater missile defense whose development China vehemently opposes.
The Kidd-class destroyers, each more than double the size of Taiwan's largest current warship, could provide a platform for simultaneously conducting anti-air, anti-submarine and anti-surface warfare, according to Jane's Defense Weekly. 
Admiral Lee was quoted as saying that such weapons systems would boost the island's ability to counter China's Russian-made Sovremenny-class destroyers and Kilo-class submarines.
The second of the Sovremenny-class destroyers, armed with supersonic Sunburn anti-ship missiles that can carry nuclear warheads, is expected to pass through the Taiwan Strait this month en route to the mainland.
The Sovremenny destroyers are part of a mainland arms procurement program intended to enable China to threaten Taiwan across the 100-mile-wide strait, something it can do today only with ballistic missiles.
Besides the destroyers, China is believed to have purchased dozens of Sukhoi-30 fighter aircraft from Russia and is talking about buying an airborne command and control plane with an advanced early-warning radar system.
The purchases do not yet add up to a significant threat, say military analysts who also note that hardware alone does not equal military might. Both Taiwan and China will need years of training before they can field their advanced weaponry with any confidence.
But the Pentagon warned in a report last year that if Washington did not help Taiwan upgrade its weapon systems, China's procurement program could tip the balance of power in Beijing's favor after 2005.
Asked today whether the Pentagon had received an official request from Taiwan to buy the Kidd-class destroyers, Kenneth W. Bacon, the Pentagon spokesman, said that by mutual agreement, neither the United States nor Taiwan comments on arms sale requests. If the Pentagon approves such a request, it notifies Congress, which can block the sale.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Taiwan is expected to ask the Bush administration to sell it four warships like the destroyer Kidd, above. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVAL VESSELS (92%); MILITARY VESSELS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (79%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); RADAR SYSTEMS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); MARINE SHIPPING (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); BAD FAITH (69%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) SMITH, CRAIG S; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); EAST CHINA (58%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) TAIWAN; CHINA; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



193 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2069 words

HEADLINE: Defense Choice Made a Name As an Infighter 

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO and ERIC SCHMITT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
Donald H. Rumsfeld, the Bush choice for secretary of defense, will come to the job with a history of having filled it once before, a history marked by sharp disputes with a forceful secretary of state. So one of the most tantalizing questions about the new national security team is whether Mr. Rumsfeld will collide again, this time with the four-star general who is the Bush choice for secretary of state, Gen. Colin L. Powell.
 On contentious issues like national missile defense, the approach of General Powell, who has to sell the concept around the world, may clash with that of the more hawkish Mr. Rumsfeld, whose chief worry will be to make the system work. And if history is any guide, Mr. Rumsfeld is a master at outmaneuvering his political foes. In the Ford administration, he won out over Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and deprived President Gerald R. Ford of what would have been his only significant foreign policy success. 
 On Jan. 21, 1976, Mr. Kissinger was in Moscow in a final effort to coax an agreement from the Soviets on the landmark SALT II arms control treaty. But Secretary Rumsfeld, backed by the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was having second thoughts. Without Mr. Kissinger's knowledge, the National Security Council was convened, and by the time the two-hour meeting was over, the Pentagon had withdrawn its support. 
"Surreal," was the way the national security adviser Brent Scowcroft described the meeting in a cable to Mr. Kissinger. Mr. Scowcroft added that the president "was angrier than I have ever seen him. He ranted about the total inconsistency with previous defense positions."
Mr. Kissinger was left to face the Soviets with no instructions. SALT II was dead for the rest of the Ford administration. Mr. Rumsfeld, who was traveling at the time, had stage-managed the outcome without even having attended the National Security Council meeting. The collapse of the treaty to limit strategic arms was both the most clever and forceful power play by Mr. Rumsfeld in his tenure as secretary of defense in the final 14 months of the Ford administration. 
Now, as President-elect George W. Bush's choice for secretary of defense a quarter-century later, Mr. Rumsfeld is positioned to move into 3E880 in the Pentagon, the same suite of offices in the outermost elite ring where he worked so long ago. 
A review of Mr. Rumsfeld's record as secretary of defense the first time around and interviews with his former colleagues paint a portrait of a highly organized, highly political personality and master bureaucrat who pushed hard for increased military spending, advocated a militant hard line against the Soviets and was quick to give his unvarnished opinion to the president.
"Rumsfeld afforded me a close-up look at a special Washington phenomenon: the skilled full-time politician-bureaucrat in whom ambition, ability and substance fuse seamlessly," Mr. Kissinger wrote in his memoirs.
"Ruthless within the rules," wrote Robert T. Hartmann, a White House counselor in the Ford administration.
Asked whether Mr. Rumsfeld was likely to clash with the new secretary of state the way he did 25 years ago, Frank C. Carlucci, a secretary of defense and national security adviser in the Reagan administration, said no. The difference, Mr. Carlucci said, was General Powell. "Colin has brilliant people skills," he said. 
Even though Mr. Rumsfeld held the top defense job once before and has headed governmental commissions, the Bush transition team reviewed his record for potential problems before he was chosen. As well, the Senate Armed Services Committee presented him with 23 pages of questions it wanted answered before his confirmation hearing begins on Thursday, transition aides said.

Pentagon in Turmoil
 The Pentagon that Donald Rumsfeld inherited in November 1975 was in turmoil. The Vietnam War had just ended and the all-volunteer force was in its infancy. Troop morale was low, and drug scandals and racial tensions plagued military bases at home and abroad. His predecessor, James R. Schlesinger, had been fired by President Ford, in part for his clashes with Mr. Kissinger and other national security officials, and his deteriorating relations with Congress. 
The country was still reeling from Watergate and struggling to recover from a severe economic recession. A combative Democratic-controlled Congress sought to slash the military's budget, while President Ford faced a tough election, challenged by Jimmy Carter on the left and Ronald Reagan on the right. 
Although Mr. Rumsfeld, a former Eagle Scout and college wrestler, had been a naval aviator and United States ambassador to NATO, at 43 he knew almost nothing about the Pentagon. "He wasn't steeped in defense issues," said Helmut Sonnenfeldt, a senior State Department official in the Ford administration. "But his managerial skills and personality led Ford to think he'd make a good -- and supportive -- secretary of defense, and maybe an anchor to windward given the looming Reagan candidacy."
In the macho world of the military, Mr. Rumsfeld quickly fit in, boasting that he could do 25 one-handed pushups and treating the squash court like a battlefield. "He wasn't a very good squash player but he played it with great gusto and determination," recalled Morton I. Abramowitz, the former president of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace who was a deputy assistant secretary of defense at the time. "He doesn't like to lose."
Mr. Rumsfeld started an aggressive campaign to increase the Pentagon budget. Within two months, he had used his ties with Mr. Ford and the White House budget office to increase the military's proposed budget for 1977 by several billion dollars. He backed cruise missiles (a staple in today's military arsenal), a major shipbuilding program for the Navy and the B-1 bomber to replace the aging B-52's. 
In making his case for more defense spending, Mr. Rumsfeld spoke in the stark, cold war terms of strength and weakness. "You can be provocative by being belligerent," he said in a television interview in February 1976. "You could also be provocative by being too weak and thereby enticing others into adventures they would otherwise avoid." 
As William G. Hyland, a deputy national security adviser in the Ford administration, wrote in his memoirs, "the more Rumsfeld took hold, the more he turned hard right." 
As a former congressman, Mr. Rumsfeld recognized the need to build public support for his proposals. In an unusual effort to mount bipartisan backing for more military spending, he persuaded Mr. Ford to hold a series of late afternoon coffees at the White House with members of Congress, labor and religious leaders and women's groups. 
"The purpose of the coffees was to rally people to pull up their pants and make sure that the Russians did not become No. 1," said Kenneth L. Adelman, a special assistant to Mr. Rumsfeld.
Mr. Rumsfeld also sought to portray himself as an able steward of the sprawling Pentagon bureaucracy. He announced with a flourish the elimination of chauffeured sedans for 34 top civilian and military officials, for example. 
All the while, the coming presidential election seemed to be uppermost on his mind. "He'd say, 'How are we going to help Ford get re-elected?' " Mr. Hyland recalled. "Not in the formal N.S.C. meetings, but plenty of times, he'd say, 'We've got an election, guys.' " Often mentioned in that era as a man with presidential ambitions or at least a possible running mate for Mr. Ford in 1976, Mr. Rumsfeld was never afraid to tell the president what to do.

Halloween Massacre
 For example, Mr. Rumsfeld, as White House chief of staff, was chief consigliere to Mr. Ford in 1975 when he announced his huge administrative shakeup that came to be known as the Halloween Massacre. The shakeup included the firing of Mr. Schlesinger as secretary of defense and of William Colby as director of central intelligence, moved the elder George Bush out of the political arena by putting him in Mr. Colby's job and propelled Mr. Rumsfeld to the top slot at the Pentagon. 
"In your press conference tonight, Mr. President, try to act presidential," Mr. Rumsfeld advised Mr. Ford, according to Mr. Hartmann's memoirs. "Don't go into long explanations of why you did this or that. Whenever you can, answer the question yes or no. Be decisive, in command. Be crisp and concise. Don't let them nickel and dime you to death." 
Mr. Rumsfeld was a close ally of his generals, but he did not shy away from taking them on. One of he most brutal confrontations came in mid-1976, when the Army was close to awarding a final contract to build the new M-1 battle tank. The secretary and his top aides spotted what they believed was a serious flaw: the American tank was equipped with a 105-millimeter gun; but British and German tanks had 120-millimeter guns. As a former NATO ambassador, Mr. Rumsfeld had expressed concern about the mismatched weapons that would be fielded by Western allies against the Soviets in a war in Europe. He ordered the tank contract delayed and dispatched Norman R. Augustine, then under secretary of the Army, to negotiate a deal with the allies to build a tank that could accommodate either gun. 
The Army brass and their backers on Capitol Hill, whose districts included the tank-building factories, howled in protest. But Mr. Rumsfeld dug in, lobbied Congress hard, and prevailed. In many ways, the tank contract was a model of the kind of acquisition change that aimed to fix one of the military's most glaring procurement problems by putting a heavy burden of responsibility on the contractors. "Don backed me to the hilt at a time when it would have been very easy to saw us off," Mr. Augustine said.

A Hard Lesson
 In his years in government and business, Mr. Rumsfeld has compiled a list of aphorisms he calls "Rumsfeld's Rules." At the Pentagon, one of his guiding adages was, "The secretary of defense is not a supergeneral or admiral," the rulebook says. "His task is to exercise civilian control over the department for the commander in chief and the country." 
Gen. George S. Brown, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff during Mr. Rumsfeld's tour, learned that lesson the hard way on Oct. 18, 1976. A crusty four-star Air Force man, General Brown had riled his civilian bosses when he gave an interview suggesting that Israel, a staunch ally of Washington, was "a burden" militarily to the United States. The general also said that Britain and its military forces were "a pathetic sight" and suggested that Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, the Shah of Iran, was building such a vast military because he had "visions of the Persian empire." 
Mr. Rumsfeld did not fire General Brown, but he did something that was nearly as bad: He put the nation's top military officer through an extraordinary exercise. He forced the general at a news conference to read a statement -- which his civilian bosses helped to write -- clarifying his remarks. "The absence of a reprimand should not be taken as an endorsement of inelegant phraseology," Mr. Rumsfeld told reporters. 
As for Mr. Rumsfeld's management style, aides described it as simultaneously disciplined and manically exuberant. Mr. Adelman recalled being deluged with what came to be known as "snowflakes" from Mr. Rumsfeld -- a flurry of questions, problems or assignments jotted down on white notepaper -- that Mr. Rumsfeld dictated to his secretary and had delivered to his aides. 
Meetings started on time, had a point, and ended with crisp decisions and assignments. "What Rumsfeld brought to the table was stability," said Thomas C. Reed, secretary of the Air Force at the time. "He was not a great intellectual blazing new trails."
Vice President-elect Dick Cheney, Mr. Rumsfeld's star protege in the Ford administration, saw him through a slightly different lens. "He's not the type to pat you on the back," Mr. Cheney told a reporter in 1975. "His reward is to dump three more things on you."

Rumsfeld's Rules

Following are excerpts from "Rumsfeld's Rules," a collection of "rules, reflections and quotations" compiled by Donald H. Rumsfeld over 40 years as a government official and a business executive:

Learn to say, "I don't know." If used when appropriate, it will be often.

With the press there is no "off the record."

If you are not criticized, you may not be doing much.

Don't necessarily avoid sharp edges. Occasionally they are necessary to leadership.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald H. Rumsfeld, then President Ford's secretary of defense, after flying a B-1 bomber in 1976. (United Press International)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); ARMED FORCES (66%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%) DEFENSE DEPARTMENT; STATE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) RUMSFELD, DONALD H; POWELL, COLIN L (GEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); KISSINGER, HENRY A (DR); FORD, GERALD RUDOLPH JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



194 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Illegal Immigrant Lived in Labor Designee's Home 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
For at least a year in the early 1990's, Linda Chavez, President-elect George W. Bush's choice for labor secretary, had an illegal immigrant from Guatemala living in her home, Bush officials said today.
 Tucker Eskew, a spokesman for the Bush transition office, said the woman, whom he declined to identify, lived with Ms. Chavez for about one year, from 1991 into 1992. 
 Mr. Eskew said that the woman had performed chores around the house in Bethesda, Md., on "an irregular basis" and that Ms. Chavez had "provided her with spending money from time to time." 
Mr. Eskew added that Ms. Chavez had driven the woman to job interviews and English classes and had helped her learn to ride the subway in Washington.
Mr. Eskew and a close friend of Ms. Chavez denied that her relationship with the woman had been one of employer-employee. "Ms. Chavez did not employ this woman as a housekeeper or anything else," Mr. Eskew said. 
Efforts to reach Ms. Chavez, who now lives in Virginia, were unsuccessful tonight.
The situation, which was first reported by ABC News today, harks back to problems that President Clinton had with two of his early nominees for attorney general.
Democrats called today for an investigation into Ms. Chavez's relationship with the woman and suggested that if she had in fact employed her, then the Bush administration ought to reconsider the selection, which has already been opposed by some Democrats and labor unions because of Ms. Chavez's opposition to the minimum wage and affirmative action.
"The labor secretary ought to set the example, ought to be able to enforce all of the laws, said Senator Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, the majority leader until Jan. 20. "If she hasn't been able to do that in the past, one would have serious questions about whether she'd be able to do it in her capacity as secretary of labor."
John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said he expected the disclosures increased the chances of persuading Congress to block Ms. Chavez's nomination.
"If these allegations are true," Mr. Sweeney said tonight, "then I think it's really unfortunate that somebody who has been nominated to be secretary of labor has violated the law in an area that has become so important, the area of obeying the nation's immigration laws."
Mr. Sweeney said he was concerned that someone selected to head an agency responsible for protecting workers' rights and benefits might not have paid required taxes, including Social Security and unemployment insurance taxes, for the work the immigrant did for her.
"I think that it adds to the negative record that she has on so many of the issues that she's going to be responsible for enforcing," Mr. Sweeney said of Ms. Chavez.
Ms. Chavez's defenders characterized her action as a humanitarian gesture in keeping with what they say is a pattern of helping people in need.
"She did let a woman who was being badly abused live in her house," said Abigail Thernstrom, an author and friend of Ms. Chavez. "She had other employment and was not working for Linda. Eventually, she went back to Guatemala."
Mr. Eskew said Ms. Chavez was not aware of the woman's legal status at the time she was sheltering her and only realized after the women had departed from her home that she was here illegally. Mr. Eskew said Ms. Chavez realized the woman's immigration status after the woman had returned to Guatemala and called Ms. Chavez seeking her help to re-enter the United States.
But Ms. Thernstrom said it was her recollection that Ms. Chavez was aware that the woman was not in this country legally.
"I'm pretty confident that Linda did know," Ms. Thernstrom said. "But the Democrats are the first ones to say if a woman shows up at a shelter for battered women, people shouldn't ask to see their green cards. I think this is going to backfire on them."
The Washington Post reported tonight that the woman who had stayed with Ms. Chavez was Marta Mercado, who had returned legally to the United States and was living in Beltsville, Md. Attempts to reach her tonight were unsuccessful.
A number of Democrats today called for an investigation of Ms. Chavez's relationship with the woman, asking whether she actually employed the immigrant and, if so, did she pay Social Security taxes.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the Massachusetts Democrat who, until Jan. 20 is chairman of the Senate's Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, said he would hold hearings on Ms. Chavez's nomination on Jan. 16-17 and expects the issue of her relationship with the Guatemalan immigrant to come up.
"This is a very troubling new allegation which needs to be fully addressed at the time of the hearings," Mr. Kennedy said through a spokesman. "It's already an extremely troubling nomination because of her long-standing hostility to the basic rights of American workers."
In 1993, the nomination of Zoe Baird, a corporate lawyer in Connecticut, for attorney general was scuttled when it was revealed that she had employed illegal immigrants and had failed to pay Social Security taxes on their wages. 
Shortly after the Baird nomination died, another potential attorney general, Judge Kimba M. Wood of Federal District Court in Manhattan withdrew her name after accounts that she too had employed an illegal alien, even though it was legal for her to do so at the time.
Mr. Eskew said today that Ms. Chavez had employed other women in her home as housekeepers, and that she always paid Social Security taxes. The spokesman declined to say whether the transition team knew of this situation before it designated Ms. Chavez as its choice for labor secretary.
Seeking to underscore their point that Ms. Chavez has a history of helping people, especially immigrants in need of assistance, friends and transition team officials provided names of individuals whom she has helped. 
One, Ngxia Bui, a computer specialist at the Justice Department who lives in Maryland, said in an interview this evening that Ms. Chavez had taken him and his brother, Nxan, into her home in 1979. Mr. Bui said he fled Vietnam in 1978.
According to Mr. Bui, he was placed in Ms. Chavez's home by Catholic Charities. While he was there, she helped him learn English, become accustomed to American culture and select an English name, Benson. He said he left after a year. 
"She is a wonderful lady and also her whole family," Mr. Bui said. "I have everything now because of her. She taught me many things to be happy."
Ms. Chavez also has provided help to the children of Ada Iturrino, a single mother from Puerto Rico who has lived in New York for 26 years. Ms. Iturrino said that for at least five years -- she cannot recall exactly when -- Ms. Chavez took in her two children, Joshua, now 15, and Kristen, now 10, during the summer. The children lived in Ms. Chavez's home for two weeks as part of the Fresh Air Fund program that takes inner city children out of their environment for a time.
Ms. Iturrino said Ms. Chavez grew close to her children and has for a number of years paid their tuition in parochial school in New York. She added that the children continue to visit Ms. Chavez during summer vacations.
"They've become very close to her and her family," Ms. Iturrino said. "They're beautiful people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The selection of Linda Chavez to be labor secretary faced more questions after the disclosure that an illegal immigrant had lived at Ms. Chavez's home for a year. Ms. Chavez is shown at a news conference last week. (Associated Press)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (73%); REFUGEES (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (69%); ETHICS (68%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (66%) LABOR; MINIMUM WAGE; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; ILLEGAL ALIENS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ETHICS; ORGANIZED LABOR 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); TED KENNEDY (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); TOM DASCHLE (57%) CHAVEZ, LINDA; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); HOLMES, STEVEN A; SWEENEY, JOHN J; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); ASKEW, TUCKER 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) ; GUATEMALA

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



195 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Nearing a Forest Legacy 

 BODY:
President Clinton is moving briskly in his final weeks to add to his already admirable record as an environmentalist. On Friday came what may be his biggest conservation achievement, an order putting nearly one-third of the nation's forest land permanently off limits to road-building and logging.
 The plan has provoked angry criticism from the timber, oil and gas interests and their reliable allies in Congress and the Western statehouses -- the same people who have challenged most of Mr. Clinton's wilderness initiatives over the last eight years. These interests have regularly been on the losing end, and for all their bluster, they must still navigate a formidable coalition of Democrats and moderate Republicans on this and every other environmental issue. But because these same interests will soon have a friend in the White House, the environmentalists must gird for prolonged battle. 
 Under Mr. Clinton's plan, which was revealed in broad outline in November, 58.5 million acres of the national forests would be protected from new road-building and commercial logging -- including 9.3 million acres of Alaska's Tongass National Forest, much prized by environmentalists for its old-growth trees. The big difference between the earlier plan and the final version concerns the Tongass, which is also coveted by loggers.
The original plan would have shut down new road-building in all other national forests in two months, but would have allowed new roads to be built in the Tongass until 2004. Alaska's Congressional delegation argued that a delay was needed to give southeast Alaska's economy time to adjust to lower levels of logging. Environmentalists argued that delay would encourage furious road-building and compromise the biological integrity of the forest. On this crucial point, Mr. Clinton sided with the environmentalists.
The plan cannot become law for 60 days. This gives its opponents a window of opportunity. President-elect George W. Bush has complained that the new rules were devised without adequate consultation with the American people. This will be a hard case to make in Congress and the courts. The administration appears to have gone strictly by the book, holding a year of public hearings and taking 1.5 million written comments. Opponents will also argue that the rule will cripple the timber, oil and gas companies. That will be an even harder case to make. The designated roadless areas contain less than one-quarter of 1 percent of the nation's timber, and a tinier fraction of its oil and gas reserves.
The forest plan could have implications for another important conservation decision -- also involving Alaska -- confronting the president. That is whether to issue a last-minute order declaring the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge a national monument. Mr. Bush has said that he wants to open the plain to oil drilling. Environmentalists argue that by giving the area monument status, Mr. Clinton would also be giving it an extra layer of protection.
But some senior officials are unconvinced that monument designation is necessary or tactically sound. For one thing, it would not enhance the legal protection the refuge already has. Under a 1980 law, drilling cannot occur in the refuge without explicit Congressional approval. But just as Congress can choose to open the refuge to drilling, so too can it overturn a monument designation.
Moreover, even though there is substantial opposition to drilling in the refuge among moderate Republicans, a last-minute designation could persuade Republican leaders to insist on party discipline to rebuke an outgoing president for a perceived attempt to tie the hands of an incoming president. No less a friend of the refuge than Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt, who once said that drilling in the refuge would be as grave an insult to nature as building hydroelectric dams in the Grand Canyon, worries that monument designation at this stage could invite a backlash against other vital elements of Mr. Clinton's conservation strategy -- including the new forest plan.
This page opposed drilling in the refuge when Mr. Bush's father proposed it in 1989. It would destroy a pristine area that nurtures a breathtaking variety of wildlife while yielding only six months' worth of economically recoverable oil. But for tactical reasons, Mr. Clinton may be justified in not pushing for monument status, however attractive as a matter of principle. In any case, Americans are simply not going to endorse a plan that spoils the refuge to obtain a trivial amount of oil. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (92%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (91%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (91%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); WILDERNESS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); WILDLIFE (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (72%); OIL EXTRACTION (71%) FORESTS AND FORESTRY; EDITORIALS; ENVIRONMENT; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); LOGGING INDUSTRY; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; LAND USE POLICIES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (79%) WESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2001 



196 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: It's Time Now to Mend Our Energy Ways 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Bill McKibben, in his Jan. 5 Op-Ed article about the urgent need to stop global warming, makes a strong case for a new national energy policy that emphasizes energy conservation and non-fossil-fuel energy resources like wind, solar and hydrogen. 
 Rather than build new centralized power plants to meet all of our increased electricity needs, a new energy policy should encourage the use of smaller, distributed electric power systems driven by cleaner methane and renewable energy resources. 
Safe and reliable new energy technologies are ready for widespread use. Strong leadership is required to bring these technologies to market and to solve our current energy problems in ways that address our present and future needs for a vibrant economy and a healthy environment.

E. THOMAS HENKEL
Chapel Hill, N.C., Jan. 5, 2001

The writer is an energy and technology consultant.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (J. D. King) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (91%); METHANE (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); ENERGY DEMAND (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (88%); SOLAR ENERGY (88%); GREENHOUSE GASES (88%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POWER PLANTS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (72%) WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; METHANE 

PERSON: HENKEL, E THOMAS; MCKIBBEN, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001 



197 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO FALLS. The euro fell as investors awaited further evidence about the United States slowdown before they bought more of the currency. In New York, the euro settled at 94.95 cents, down from 95.82 cents on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since July, 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001 



198 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Punta del Este Journal; 
As Elite Resort Slumps, Argentina Doesn't Cry

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: PUNTA DEL ESTE, Uruguay, Jan. 7 

 BODY:
Punta del Este is known throughout Latin America as the playground of the Argentine rich and of European royalty -- a place where jet setters sip Champagne on their yachts, rent Mediterranean chalets for $10,000 a month and stroll up and down the boardwalks with their French poodles.
 The pine-shaded beaches are delightfully balmy even during the hottest of Januarys. And when it rains, the visiting grand dames of Buenos Aires go to the gym at the Conrad Hotel wearing their diamonds and Italian designer sweat suits for all to see. 
 But speak to any Uruguayan businessman here and you hear another story, one full of dismay about the deep, two-year-old recession gripping Argentina that some say will smother this resort or force it to transform itself into something more akin to Atlantic City. 
Concerned that they will have a second disappointing season in a row, they have reduced hotel and rental rates by 15 to 20 percent. Restaurants are offering tourist specials. Car rental agents are bargaining to attract customers at the airport as if they were hawking in a Middle Eastern bazaar.
Anticipating losses, Punta's most exclusive art dealership shut its doors and moved to Miami. With better than 75 percent of Punta's tourism dependent on Argentines, local newspaper stories about how Christmas sales in Argentina slumped 22 percent sent quivers down the spines of the boutique owners on Avenida Gorlero.
"I feel like a pilot who has taken off and discovers a serious malfunction," said Pepe Perille, 35, who opened a restaurant last year featuring sushi and disco dancing.
The alarm ranges from the histrionic to the philosophical in this resort that is in season for a precious 10 weeks -- from the third week of December to the end of February -- and then reverts to a virtual ghost town by April.
"Rely on the Argentine economy?" asked Ana Maria Bozzo, owner of La Posta del Cangrejo, one of Punta del Este's most fashionable hotels -- with $345-a-night pastel bungalows and photographs of former President George Bush and King Juan Carlos of Spain in the lobby. "Better to rely on God. Every year the big question is what is going to happen to Argentina, and you just never know."
Punta's crisis is a product of long-term social trends as well as five years of generally mediocre economic performance in Argentina. Wealthy and upper-middle-class Argentine families once took a month or two off in Punta, as a matter of recreation and prestige. 
But now they generally take shorter vacations. And with their overvalued pesos pegged to the strong dollar, they go increasingly to Europe, the United States and Brazil.
The construction boom here that spanned much of the 1960's, 70's and 80's, fed by capital flight from Argentina during periods of political unrest and bouts of hyperinflation, ended in the early 1990's, leaving several unsightly skeleton towers of incomplete structures and half-vacant apartment buildings.
Local business owners and political leaders, who found it unseemly to promote their resort in the past, have taken some strong measures to maintain their hold on their half-million annual visitors.
Sensitive to several critical stories in the Argentine press last year, the local government has pressed food stands on the beaches to cut their prices for ice cream and other refreshments in half, and it has broken up the monopoly franchise that one company had to clean the beaches, hoping that competition will result in cleaner boardwalks and sand dunes.
It has extended the hours discotheques can remain open to 7 a.m. and eased noise restrictions. And after some brainstorming with business leaders seeking new marketing ideas, local officials announced that from now on topless bathing will be welcome.
Very few women are actually going topless in Punta -- no more, and maybe fewer, than in previous years when topless bathers had to be more discreet, say watchful lifeguards. Argentine women like to wear skimpy bathing suits, but they are generally more conservative than, say, the French, Italians or Spanish.
"Now that topless is legal it's less appealing," said Orlando Uviroga, 21, a lifeguard at Las Terrazas de Manantiales beach. Nevertheless, the announcement that topless bathing would be allowed brought a strong negative reaction from the Roman Catholic Church of Uruguay and, as Uruguayan businessmen eagerly hoped, a news media frenzy in Argentina.
Buenos Aires is in the middle of a heat wave, and with Congress and schools out for the summer break, television news producers have chosen to fill their shows with rather complete coverage of the topless bathing issue in Punta. Gente, Argentina's glittery version of People magazine, featured the subject on its cover this week, with a multipage photo layout of two fashion models, Daniela Urzi and Andrea Bursten, sunning virtually au natural in Punta.
Seeing a competitive threat, in recent days Pinamar and other Argentine beech resorts have announced that they, too, welcome topless bathing.
"Topless is the talk of Punta del Este," said a smiling Ruben Rijo, manager of the San Marcos Hotel. "I hope to God it helps bring back the Argentines." But most people just wink at the topic, knowing it is more hype than reality.
While taping a promotional cable television show on Punta's boardwalk today, the Argentine clothing designer Roberto Giordano picked up on the subject of the moment in a teasing monologue, while tourists gawked at four of his models. "Here we are at the nudist beach," he said, laughing, even though there was no one topless in sight. "They are just covering themselves because they don't want to appear in the media."
Luis Sader, a leading real estate executive, said, "Topless may have modernized Punta, but we're still in a crisis."
Even before the current crisis, Punta had gradually moved downscale, responding to the changes in social patterns. It has tried to attract more middle-class Argentines and shifted its marketing toward Brazil, Paraguay and Chile. 
Taxi stands began to replace their aging fleets of powder yellow Mercedes-Benzes with powder yellow Volkswagens. Discos and fast-food chains proliferated, replacing much of the understated elegance of a previous era. And the wealthiest sold much of their property and moved to more secluded beeches further up the coast.
But many of the changes have only partly taken hold.
The Conrad, a Las Vegas-style hotel that opened four years ago with an immense and gaudy casino, has been only a modest success and has not spurred much interest among international hotel chains. And a hoped-for surge of Brazilian tourists has not fully materialized, in part because of the devaluation of the Brazilian currency in 1999.
"Punta del Este is ending one era that lasted 60 years," said Ramon Isequilla Real de Azua, president of the Punta del Este Development and Tourism League. "And what comes next we just don't know."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A seaside restaurant in Jose Ignacio, one of the beaches up the coast from Punta del Este that is chosen by wealthy vacationers. (Armando Sartorotti for The New York Times) Map of Uruguay shows the location of Punta de Este: The prosperity of Punta de Este depends on wealthy Argentines.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); RESTAURANTS (75%); ART DEALERS (66%); CHRISTMAS (65%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (60%); US DOLLAR (60%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) KRAUSS, CLIFFORD 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (98%); URUGUAY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); EUROPE (91%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); SPAIN (79%) PUNTA DEL ESTE (URUGUAY); ARGENTINA; URUGUAY; EUROPE; BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001 



199 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
The First Unionization Vote by Dot-Com Workers Is Set

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
This week a fixture of the old economy, the labor movement, will take a small but significant step into the new economy as the first unionization vote is held at a dot-com.
 While unionization efforts move slowly forward at high-technology giants like Microsoft and Amazon.com, 13 customer service representatives at etown.com, a Web site that provides information on consumer electronics, are on a fast unionization track, scheduled to vote Friday on whether to join the Communications Workers of America. 
 At Amazon, the unionization push has gained some momentum in recent months as a result of a new- economy complaint: many workers say their hourly pay is too low now that their stock options are underwater. At etown, a five-year-old company based in San Francisco, the impetus for a union has grown out of complaints common in the old economy -- the workers say pay is too low, management often does not listen to them and managers frequently do not stick to their promises. 
"The group's focus is just to be heard, just to have a voice," said Eric Anderson, a 22-year-old customer service representative at etown who is one of the most outspoken union supporters. "I'm also upset that I step up to the plate continuously and I'm not seeing the things that they promise me and offer me."
The unionization campaign at etown, a division of Collaborative Media, shares another trait with many old-economy companies -- management is fiercely resisting the organizing drive. Indeed, the communications workers union asserts that etown fired two leaders of the organizing drive because they favored unionizing and that the company dismissed 13 other customer service representatives to derail the organizing drive.
Executives at etown, which has yet to make a profit, readily acknowledge that they are urging workers to vote against a union, but they deny dismissing any workers to undermine unionization efforts. The company, which still has 99 workers in San Francisco and New York City, laid off the 13 customer service representatives last month, etown officials say, not to thwart the unionization drive, but as part of a cost-cutting effort, which included 29 layoffs throughout the company, aimed at satisfying etown's investors.
Like many other managers at high-technology companies, Steve Ramirez, etown's vice president for marketing and communications, voiced fears that unionization would raise costs and make it harder to turn a profit.
"We are not profitable," Mr. Ramirez said. "This certainly is a financially difficult time for ourselves as well as the high-tech industry and anything that adds to our cost structure is going to be a significant operating problem for us."
Even though the etown organizing drive involves only a handful of workers, the vote this Friday has taken on considerable importance for the union movement after most of its efforts to unionize new-economy companies have foundered.
"It's a smart strategy for labor -- they're trying to show their relevance in areas that are growing," said Gary Chaison, a professor of industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass. "If they can crack one high-tech company open, it will give them some real momentum. And in terms of union resurgence, it signifies that this is not your grandfather's labor movement, that this is no longer the smokestack labor movement."
Labor organizers say they expect some success in the high-technology industry for a little-understood reason. Many jobs in the new economy are unglamorous grunt work: answering phones, responding to customer complaints, filling orders and stuffing warehouse shelves.
But high-technology executives say unions have no place in their industry, asserting that unions usually resist the characteristics the industry thrives on: innovation, flexibility and entrepreneurship.
At etown, some union supporters are voicing optimism about Friday's vote, which is being supervised by the National Labor Relations Board. But some other workers predict the results will be very close.
The customer-service workers, who are paid $420 to $640 a week, petitioned for a unionization election after they complained that management was delaying and breaking promises on raises and promotions, was requiring too many employees to work overtime and often juggled their schedules around too much.
"It's very clear that management was consistently dishonest with its employees," said Chase Rummonds, a 31-year-old former customer service representative. " A union will lead to a negotiated contract, a tangible public document that states unequivocally what the agreement is between management and employees. It's the only way to force honesty between management and its employees."
Mr. Rummonds was dismissed in October, three days after he led a sickout that sought to protest management's failure to heed employee concerns on raises and other matters. Mr. Rummonds insists that he was fired merely because he backed a union; federal law bars companies from dismissing workers for that reason. But company officials said Mr. Rummonds was fired because he was disgruntled with the job and refused to promise that he would not take part in another sickout.
Mr. Ramirez of etown said the company had worked hard in recent weeks to resolve tensions and problems. Even one union supporter, Mr. Anderson, acknowledged that management, feeling the heat of a unionization drive, has become more attentive in listening and more consistent in making good on promises.
"They have asked for a second chance," Mr. Anderson said. "It really is up to everyone about whether they believe them. That's what the election's coming down to."
Mr. Anderson insisted that even if the union were to lose in Friday's vote, it would in ways emerge victorious because the fears of unionization have put pressure on management to treat workers better.
Company officials insist that a union will be an unwelcome intruder in the company. "We're facing an effort to bring in an unaffiliated third party that doesn't know our business, doesn't know our industry and doesn't know our employees," Mr. Ramirez said. "There's very little value that such a party can bring to the conversation."
Professor Chaison saw another reason that managers at new-economy companies fight so hard to beat back organizing drives. "Companies like Amazon are in a position where they have to rationalize to make a profit, and they feel that unionizing could finish them off," he said.
Mr. Anderson, the etown worker, said union supporters in no way wanted to hasten the company's demise. "No one wants to make the company not work," he said. "That wouldn't be a very smart idea."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chase Rummonds is a former customer service representative for etown.com. He was dismissed after leading an employee sickout. (Dan Krauss for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (89%); STOCK OPTIONS (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA; ETOWN.COM 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%)

PERSON: RUMMONDS, CHASE; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001 



200 of 835 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Camden Church Groups Seek Far Broader State Aid for City 

BYLINE:  By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 8 

 BODY:
Two influential Camden church organizations asked today that the state provide $500 million to rebuild the city's broken streets and collapsing sewers, provide new housing and attract new investment. The figure is far in excess of the $100 million proposed by a state consultant's report as well as two larger proposals now before the State Legislature.
 The groups, Camden Churches Organized for People and Concerned Black Clergy, have provided important political support for the state's varying proposals for New Jersey's poorest city, which have ranged from strengthening the city's management system to staging a complete takeover. The organizations, which represent most established churches in the city, endorsed the takeover idea last summer after all other efforts by the state failed. 
 Yet today the groups' leaders said in effect that the price of that continued support would be a more ambitious aid and reform package than one proposed in November.
A state consultant proposed generating about $100 million in added money for the city, mainly by improving management and imposing cost savings. Two takeover bills before the Legislature include provisions for ambitious economic development and rebuilding plans, estimated to bring hundreds of millions of dollars to the city. No specific figures have been developed.
The Rev. Heyward Wiggins, pastor of the Bible Tabernacle Church and president of Camden Churches Organized for People, said the state had to do more than keep the city of 83,000 on life support.
"For too long, Camden has been urged to wait, to suffer in silence, while the needs of others are attended to first," he said. "But it seems that Camden's turn for attention and recovery never comes, and our people's patience sometimes turns to hopelessness."
Mr. Wiggins noted that the city's mayor, Milton Milan, was recently convicted on corruption charges. But, he said, Camden's recovery does not rest only on rooting out corruption. "We must recognize that Camden's difficulties run much deeper than a few corrupt leaders," Mr. Wiggins said. "Any serious attempt to set Camden on the road to recovery must address the underlying cause of Camden's condition -- and that is lack of resources."
Tom Damm, the spokesman for the State Division of Community Affairs, said the takeover packages in the Legislature included provisions for "hundreds of millions" in aid to the city, but not the amount the church groups were seeking. He said any final rescue package would not approach $500 million.
"Money alone is not going to solve Camden's problems," Mr. Damm said. "We need accountability and strong management, and that is what the legislation offers."
Msgr. Robert McDermott of St. Joseph's Cathedral in East Camden said that Camden Churches Organized for People had estimated that there were 300 miles of collapsing sewers and decayed roads in the city, and that it would cost about $300 million to repair them all. The remaining $200 million would go toward housing and for economic development, including incentives for investment in the city.
But fixing the roads and sewers, Mr. McDermott said, was the first step toward providing the environment needed to attract new investment. "Money and people are not going to flow into Camden until the infrastructure is repaired," he said, "and the government is the only thing that can fix that part of the landscape."
The administration of Gov. Christie Whitman is negotiating with legislative leaders over language that addresses the state's demand for strong controls and the belief of many legislators that the city's autonomy should be protected. The state provides about $70 million of the city's $110 million operating budget. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); MAYORS (71%); CORRUPTION (67%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; CONSULTANTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) CAMDEN (NJ); NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2001 

 
