

401 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: Stock Slide Sinks Hopes in Industrial City 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN

DATELINE: YORK, Pa., March 15 

 BODY:
The stock market's shrapnel is spraying all over this industrial town, just under 200 miles from Wall Street. Like many Americans, the city's truck drivers and clerks, nurses and assembly line workers are new and largely accidental participants in a game that was once played exclusively by men who wore suits. 
 Starting in the late 1980's and encouraged by tax breaks, the men and women who work here in the Harley-Davidson plant or at the air-conditioner factory bought into their employers' 401K retirement plans and watched them grow and grow year by year. Then a year ago, at the peak of the market's heady rise, their fantasies of condos in Florida began shriveling, and for many this week, they collapsed. 
 Over deep-fried chicken at the R & D Luncheonette downtown on North Duke Street, Barbara Ruby, 48, said the markets have hammered her 401K and dashed her hopes of early retirement. "I thought I'd be leaving my job by the end of the year," said Ms. Ruby, a customer service worker at the York Water Company. "I want to go do something fun in horticulture, start my own little business." But the market's slide has left her unsettled. "Now, do I have to rethink my whole plan?" she asked. 
Another customer was Barbara Zinn, 41, an accounts payable clerk at a communications company. Only within the last year did she and her husband, a paper company worker, begin investing in 401K plans. She contributes $50 a month and he $130 a week. "I never wanted to start it, and they talked me into it," Ms. Zinn said. "Ever since, I've always had minuses on the statements."
During the 1990's, the city of York prospered -- helped along by well-paid, unionized industrial workers, established construction businesses and flourishing banks and financial services. The city, with a population of 41,000, witnessed a remarkable democratization of the stock market with the proliferation of 401K plans and other tax-favored investments like Individual Retirement Accounts.
The 401K plans, particularly, became popular among employers because they relieved them of providing conventional pensions, which assured retirees of a steady and predictable check regardless of the stock market's ups and downs. With deductions from their pay and varying amounts of employer contributions, workers on 401K plans have assumed most of the risk and burden of providing for their retirement. 
"The manufacturing worker was not even aware of the crash of '87," said Jack H. Grim, manager of the Janney Montgomery Scott securities office on East Market Street, York's main commercial artery. "But he's extremely aware of it today." Many are stunned. "I can see people pulling in their horns," Mr. Grim said. 
With the market's drubbing, investors in York are wary of President Bush's proposals to let them invest part of their Social Security payroll contributions in the stock market. 
Barbara Ruby, chastened by the fall of her 401K, doubted that she could make any better informed investments than government economic institutions. "I'm not smarter than Greenspan," she said. 
Kurt Dagenhardt, 46, who usually votes Republican, built up a sizable 401K fund by making his own investments. He did so well, in fact, that he was able to retire from his job as a salesman for a kitchen cabinet manufacturer and move home to York from Texas to be near his aging parents. 
But eventually he wants a Social Security benefit that he can depend on like the one that helps sustain his parents. "I think that the government should continue to shoulder the Social Security program rather than leave it up to individuals," he said.
Mr. Grim predicted that the Dow Jones industrial average would leap 1,000 points the day Congress enacted a plan permitting workers to determine a part of their retirment investments, and that workers' Social Security funds would rise over the long term. Still, he added, he thought it would now be difficult to assure workers of an ever-rising Dow. 
The Japanese market has been down for more than a decade, he said. "That's never happened here," he said. But if it did, "it would be extremely precarious," he said. 
Among Mr. Grim's 1,000 clients, mostly people who earn less than $100,000 a year, is his sister-in-law, Holly Shearer. A nurse practitioner who lives in Mechanicsburg, north of York, she said: "I'm concerned. I'm feeling very nervous." 
Ms. Shearer said she and her husband, Sam, manager of a Sears store, had gone on a spending spree last year, amassing a credit card debt. But two months ago, Ms. Shearer said she reduced her contribution by about 80 percent to pay off the bills. "Right now," she said, "I want to be safe and take my losses." 
Those close to retirement do not have that luxury. Marlow Palmieri, 60 and the president of the United Auto Workers local at the York air-conditioning plant, said that until last spring he had around $45,000 in 401K stock funds. Fearful that he was putting funds for his imminent retirement at risk, he shifted all but $11,000 of his savings into a cash fund. Since he made the move, the $11,000 in stock has fallen to $8,000. "I've been putting in $50 a month and then $100 a month all these years and I just got lucky," he said. 
The crowd at the Rose Haven bar is generally a little further from retirement. Nearly everyone coming into the smoke-filled bar with a homey feel across from the York International air conditioner plant is in the market in some way, most through 401K plans, but many, too, through their own accounts with brokerage firms. 
Everyone here has a story about wins and losses, including the bar manager, Kelly Snyder. About four years ago, she received an unexpected check for $2,000. Unfamiliar with the market, a tipster told her about a company that has since become Sirius Satellite Radio. She bought 500 shares for $1,875.
On March 3 last year, the stock had reached $69, bringing her total investment to $34,500. Today, Sirius was trading at $19.75 a share. Though Ms. Kelly is still ahead, she feels chastened. "I'm not happy about that at all," she said. "But I've had fun with it. I still think it's going over $100 a share."
As the bar's television drones with hourly reports from Wall Street, Jim Bell, the customer with the least to fear, plays the naysayer. Mr. Bell, who is 75, still works, driving trucks for $10 an hour. He also collects more than $1,000 a month in Social Security. He has a camp trailer, a custom van and he raises rabbits for show on the side. "We are headed for a crash," he said, thumping a fist on the bar. "It's going way more down."
At 70, investors must begin withdrawing funds from their 401Ks. "I pulled beaucoup out to remodel the house," said Mr. Bell. And on the advice of his broker, he put his additional withdrawals into relatively stable utility stocks. 
Crash or no crash, most of the Rose Haven's customers seem willing to stick it out. They have innoculated themselves against panic with a verbal vaccine called "the long haul." 
Jim Dellinger, 47, and his wife work at the nearby Giant Foods, where they have enrolled in 401K plans. Mr. Dellinger, a baker, has put most of his money into a Fidelity fund that has fallen 12 percent this year and a Janus fund that has dropped 16 percent. 
As the market slides, Mr. Dellinger said: "I think about it every day. I have basically my life savings in there." But with his retirement 15 or 20 years off, he said: "I do have a long time. I'm in it for the long haul."
But for such investors, holding on in the market does not always mean holding on to battered funds and stocks. Most 401K plans permit employees to allocate their savings among high-risk and low-risk mutual funds, and some have been shifting their funds as the market has fallen.
Steven Zinn, 35, a letter carrier, watched his stock fund investment drop from $71,000 to $48,000. "I pulled everything out of the stock market three weeks ago," he said. "I put it in government securities, which is guaranteed 6.5 percent. I don't think the market's quite down to where it's going to be at its low." 
An investor's age is a factor in the risks people here take. While Mr. Zinn has opted for a conservative strategy, he said he was planning to take a much bigger risk with a $5,000 fund he has set up for his 3-year-old daughter. The money's in a bond fund now -- but not for long. "I'm going to take $2,500 of that and put it in science and technology," he said. 
On East Market Street, Craig L. Ludwick, 34, who manages the Farmers Fire Insurance Company, put his 18-month-old son into an aggressive growth equity fund. "It's down substantially -- 30 percent in the last six months. But my philosophy is, you stay the course."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I pulled everything out of the stock market three weeks ago." STEVEN ZINN -- Letter carrier; "We are headed for a crash. It's going way more down." JIM BELL -- Trucker; "I think about it every day. I have basically my life savings in there." JIM DELLINGER -- Baker (Photographs by Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Kelly Snyder, manager of the Rose Haven bar in West York, said she expected the price of her stock to rebound to $100 a share from $19.75; Jack H. Grim, a securities broker in York, Pa., said the pain from falling stocks extended to factory workers. (Photographs by Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US 401K PLANS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (77%); TRUCK DRIVERS (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (76%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING (70%); PAPER MFG (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: THE YORK WATER CO (82%)

TICKER: YORW (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (82%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (82%) SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY; 

GEOGRAPHIC: YORK, PA, USA (92%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



402 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Developers Chosen for New Pennsylvania Station 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
State officials yesterday chose the operators of the Frankfurt airport and a Dallas real estate company headed by Roger Staubach to create a new Pennsylvania Station on Eighth Avenue within the James A. Farley Building, better known to New Yorkers as the General Post Office.
 Groundbreaking for the $788 million project will take place this fall, said Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation and its Pennsylvania Station redevelopment subsidiary. The new Farley-Penn Station, as state officials call it, is scheduled to open in December 2004. 
 Neither Fraport A.G. -- Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide nor the Staubach Company has had firsthand experience developing a transportation and commercial hub in a city center, though Mr. Staubach said two of his executives had played roles in the revitalization of Grand Central Terminal and of Union Station in Washington.
"The responsibility is enormous, but I know we have the talent," he said. Mr. Staubach, best remembered as a star quarterback for the Dallas Cowboys, has been in the real estate business for 24 years. His company employs about 1,000 people nationally.
Mr. Gargano cited another reason for selecting Penn Station Ventures, as the Fraport-Staubach group is called, over a team composed of LCOR and the Tishman Urban Development Corporation or a team composed of Jones Lang LaSalle and the Turner Construction Corporation.
"What set P.S.V. apart was their commitment of an equity investment," Mr. Gargano said, although he did not specify the amount, in part because the final deal has yet to be negotiated. "It demonstrated that they were willing to back up their vision with a financial stake."
Mr. Gargano also expressed confidence in the collective experience of the partnership, noting that Fraport "is the owner and manager of Europe's leading intermodal transportation hub."
Under plans prepared by the architectural firm Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, Amtrak will move across Eighth Avenue into transformed spaces within the Farley Building. The neo-Classical landmark sits above the west end of the passenger platforms, making possible its use as a railroad concourse. The Farley building was designed to complement the original Pennsylvania Station, which was razed in the 1960's.
Penn Station Ventures would hold a 35-year lease on Farley-Penn Station, with Staubach handling leasing of the 100,000 square feet of retail space and Fraport overseeing transportation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORT OPERATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); INTERMODAL SHIPPING (69%); CITIES (69%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (67%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (67%); SPORTS (67%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FRAPORT AG (86%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%); STAUBACH RETAIL (71%); JONES LANG LASALLE INC (58%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (53%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS (55%)

TICKER: FRA (FRA) (86%); JLL (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488111 AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (86%); SIC4789 TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (86%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (71%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (71%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (58%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



403 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Boroughs' Rise Driven Largely By Immigration 

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
The vast majority of the growth that helped propel New York City's population count to a historic peak in the census figures released yesterday occurred in Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx, in neighborhoods that have been rapidly transformed in recent years by the arrival of an unprecedented number of largely Hispanic and Asian immigrants.
 Latinos now outnumber blacks in New York City for the first time, the 2000 census figures show. Nearly one in 10 New Yorkers is Asian. The proportion of blacks remains stable at just under one-quarter of the city's official population count of 8,008,278, with an increasing number of them foreign-born. Whites, many of whom have died off or moved away, have dwindled to just over a third. 
 "You've got a big decline in the native-born population and a big increase in the foreign-born," said Emanuel Tobier, a professor of economics and planning at the Robert Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University. "The future middle class of the city is in the foreign-born population. So it's really a dramatic change."
It remains to be seen how much of the overall increase is explained by actual growth and how much by better counting. City planners believe at least half the increase in the census figures reflects real growth.
The largest increase occurred in Queens, where the population count grew by more than 11 percent, compared with 1990 numbers that had been adjusted to take into account the undercount in the 1990 census. That increase of more than 225,000 in Queens accounted for nearly half of the city's overall increase of 456,000 and more than a third of the increase in the count for the entire state.
The counts for Brooklyn and the Bronx each rose by more than 85,000 people, even though the Census Bureau's estimates had suggested that the population in those boroughs would shrink. Those jumps accounted for another third of the overall change in the city's count. Staten Island contributed the rest, with an increase of nearly 60,000, or 15 percent, the largest percentage increase among the boroughs. Manhattan's population remained roughly stable.
The numbers suggest significant growth in a city whose official population count had previously peaked at 7.894 million in 1970 and declined abruptly to slightly more than seven million. But better counting could also be a factor: the Census Bureau believes it missed fewer people in 2000 than it missed in 1990.
In addition, the city was allowed to add 370,000 households to the Census Bureau's address list that it says had been missing, many of which the city believes may have gone unnoticed and uncounted since the 1970's or 1980's. Figures to be released later in the year by the Census Bureau may indicate the extent to which those additional households, the equivalent of a medium-size American city, affected the count.
"I think we're comfortable saying that probably at least half of the total growth is real, not just a function of better counting," Joseph B. Rose, the chairman of the City Planning Commission, said yesterday. Mr. Rose has said the city must now determine what percentage of the growth was real to decide infrastructure needs.
Whatever the explanation, the increase is expected to have profound economic and political ramifications. Among other things, it is expected to make the city eligible for more federal and state money, affect crime rates and per capita income figures, shift the political balance of power in the state and enhance the city's reputation as a thriving place.
The last time the population count approached eight million, in 1970, New York was very different. Subway ridership was falling, crime was rising and immigration was still barely a force in the city, said Kenneth T. Jackson, a Columbia University historian who is the editor of the Encyclopedia of New York City.
"In 1970, people felt that cities in general and perhaps New York in particular were falling from some previous pinnacle of importance and success and that the future was not going to be as bright as the past," he said. "But I think in the year 2000, what's interesting is that people have a sense of the city as the place of the future."
The numbers released yesterday were limited to population counts and breakdowns by race and Hispanic origin. They did not include data on where the current New Yorkers came from. Those details are scheduled to come out later. But planners and demographers already have some sense of which neighborhoods have experienced heavy immigration and from which countries.
In Queens, which has attracted large numbers of South American and Asian immigrants, the number of Hispanics rose to about 556,000, or nearly a quarter of the borough's population. Asians jumped to nearly 17.5 percent. The number of non-Hispanic whites in the borough dropped by more than 200,000 to less than on third of the population, as white residents died or left.
According to an analysis by The New York Times, communities with especially large increases include Jackson Heights, East Elmhurst, Corona, North Corona, Woodside and Long Island City. There also appeared to be significant increases in East Flushing and in the area in southern Queens that includes Woodhaven, Ozone Park, Richmond Hill and South Jamaica.
In Brooklyn, the non-Hispanic white population also declined by about 70,000, to just over one-third of the overall count from nearly 40 percent. The number of non-Hispanic blacks dropped slightly. The number of Asians rose significantly, to 184,000 from about 118,000, while the number of Hispanics rose slightly. Nearly one in every five Brooklyn residents is Hispanic.
As for the Bronx, the non-Hispanic white population dropped to nearly 195,000 in 2000, from about 272,000 in 1990. Whites now make up just 14 percent of Bronx residents. The Hispanic population grew to nearly half the borough's population, while non-Hispanic blacks declined slightly, to less than a third of the borough. Neighborhoods that grew markedly included Morrisania in the South Bronx and a number of communities in the northeastern part of the borough, including Baychester, North Baychester and Eastchester.
In Staten Island, non-Hispanic whites remain more than 70 percent of the population. But Hispanics now make up 12 percent of the borough, and Asians nearly 6 percent. Much of Staten Island's growth was centered in the southwestern part of the island, in places like Tottenville, where there was a relatively large amount of new construction in the 1990's.
The population of Manhattan, meanwhile, remained stable at about 1,530,000, when comparing 2000 figures with adjusted 1990 figures. In Manhattan, the percentages of non-Hispanic whites and blacks dropped only slightly, while the numbers of Hispanics and Asians rose.
Citywide, slightly fewer than 5 percent of all New Yorkers identified themselves as multiracial.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How the City Diversified"Data compiled in a joint project by The New York Times and Queens College show how racial and ethnic neighborhoods developed. The project computerized the city's census data beginning in 1905. 1910 -- Only one tract has a black majority.POP.: 4,766,883WHITE: 98%BLACK: 2% 1930 -- 25 tracts in Harlem have black majorities.; 3 tracts in Queens and 2 in Brooklyn have black majorities.POP.: 6,930,446WHITE: 95%BLACK: 5% 1950 -- Morrisania and Claremont have black majorities.; Half the tracts in Bedford-Stuyvesant have black majorities.POP.: 7,891,957WHITE: 91%BLACK: 9% 1970 -- The Hispanic percentage in Longwood and Mott Haven is as high as 81 percent.; One tract in Bushwick is 96 percent Hispanic.POP. 7,894,862WHITE: 77%BLACK: 21%OTHER: 2%NOTE: In 1970, Hispanics were 16 percent of the population, but becauseof the way the data were reported, they cannot be shown as a separate group. 1980 -- The only tracts with Asian majorities are in Chinatown.POP.: 7,071,639WHITE: 52%BLACK: 24%OTHER: 1%HISPANIC: 20%ASIAN: 3% 1990 -- Areas with a majority of Asians spread in Queens.; Areas with a majority of Hispanics spread in the Bronx.POP.: 7,552,186WHITE: 42%BLACK: 26%OTHER: 1%HISPANIC: 25%ASIAN: 7% Mapping shows pluralities of races (40%-60%)(60%-80%) of White, Black, Hispanic and Asian people in New York City. 2000POP. 8,008,278 LARGEST PCT. OF HISPANICSWest Farms: 81% SECOND LARGEST PCT. OF HISPANICSNorth Corona: 78% LARGEST PCT. OF BLACKSSpringfield Gardens: 92% LARGEST PCT. OF ASIANSChinatown: 72% LARGEST PCT. OF WHITESBreezy Point: 98% SECOND LARGEST PCT. OF WHITESManhattan Beach: 96% WHITE: 35%OTHER SINGLE RACES: 1%HISPANIC: 27%BLACK: 25%ASIAN: 10%MULTIRACE: 3% Map shows race populations densities of New York City. NOTE: In 1910, the census divided up the races into black, white and a third category, which combined all others. In 1970, the census began collecting information on Hispanics and some Asian groups. For the 2000 census, individuals could identify themselves as belonging to more than one race. Percentages may not add up to 100 because of rounding. (Source: 1910 to 1990 New York City maps are based on published and unpublished census data files compiled by Prof. Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College sociology department. Data for each year are allocated and mapped to 2000 census tract boundaries. 2000 data are mapped by census block groups.)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (92%); POPULATION SIZE (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



404 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Valley Investors Cool to Silicon Alley 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Benjamin I. Goldhagen thought that raising investment money for his start-up in New York would be easier than the marathon he ran over melting glacial ice in Antarctica.
 It wasn't. 
 That is why Mr. Goldhagen, the founder and chief executive of the RedTop Company, which makes software, traveled more than 2,500 miles last month -- as did executives from 25 other companies in the New York region -- to look for investments at the Alley to the Valley conference in Silicon Valley in Northern California. 
But with venture capitalist firms stung by the impact of falling stock prices and a declining ability to recoup their investments through initial public offerings, young New York companies like RedTop have found it particularly hard to find investors. Many venture capitalists have curtailed their searches for new investments to focus on companies they have already financed, many of which need cash infusions to survive. 
"A lot of pretty good companies are in traction right now, with a couple of million dollars in revenue, shutting their doors because they can't get funding," said Robert Keith, a managing partner at TL Ventures, a national venture capital firm that finances several New York companies. "It's pretty disturbing. In the next few years, I think Darwin is going to show his teeth."
The first Alley to the Valley conference, in 1998 attracted many new dot-coms, like Wit Capital, HotJobs and StarMedia. A few weeks before the conference, DoubleClick, an Internet advertising company in Manhattan, had made a successful initial public offering. This year there were fewer media dot-coms and more software and technology companies.
During the dot-com boom, Mr. Goldhagen, whose company makes business software for health care providers, repeatedly refused New York venture capitalists' suggestions that he add a .com to his company's name to improve investment opportunities. "I did not play the game," Mr. Goldhagen said.
Now, after cobbling together $9 million from friends and family and getting his company to the point at which it is ready to take the next big leap, Mr. Goldhagen finds himself unable to attract new investors.
"The way races work," Mr. Goldhagen said, "is that sometime along the way it's going to be painful. But you just have to say that 'it's O.K., it's painful, but you got to keep going to finish the race.' But this is nearly impossible."
Three years ago, when AlleyCat News, a Silicon Alley trade magazine, and the New York City Economic Development Corporation sponsored the first Alley to the Valley conference, many New York companies sent representatives to San Francisco. Their goal, said Janet Stites, the publisher and chief executive of AlleyCat News, "was getting West Coast attention by saying that there were these emerging companies in New York, and the city wanted to say that they would do whatever they could to make the environment comfortable for early-stage companies."
Last year, the companies returned to the West Coast to point out their successes. This year, they were on a search for money. "Now people are clearly aware that New York has this technology community," Ms. Stites said. "Now, it is taking these companies on a road show and making sure venture capitalists know that these companies are looking for investments." 
Optimism was in short supply at the conference, which was held at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco's financial district. Sandeep Tyagi, founder and president of Inductis, a Summit, N.J., company that develops software for accounting companies, put on his best face and gave what he said was a nerve-racking slide-show presentation of his business model to a sparse audience of about 30.
Afterward, he found that his audience was not rich with venture capitalists. Instead, the room was filled mainly with other chief executives in the same boat. "There were very few people looking to do funding," he said. "It's just really tough right now."
Silicon Alley, which is driven by media companies, has often seemed three steps and three decades behind Silicon Valley. When the dot-com boom of the late 1990's began to spread across the country, one of the largest disadvantages that New York companies faced was a lack of established venture capital firms. 
But it did not take long for venture capital firms to sprout up in New York. Flatiron Partners, which was started by Chase Capital Partners in 1996, was one of the first firms to focus on Silicon Alley investments. By 1999, the annual investments by venture capital firms in the New York area had jumped to $2.6 billion, up from $390 million four years earlier, according to VentureOne and PricewaterhouseCoopers. The investments helped put Silicon Alley on the map, even if they were dwarfed by the $15.3 billion invested in Silicon Valley in 1999.
But as the stock market valuations of technology companies began to drop last summer, so did the market for initial public offerings. Only 13 companies in the New York area made initial public offerings in 2000, compared with 42 such offerings in 1999, according to IPO.com and Thompson Financial Securities Data.
Venture capitalists began to retrench in 2000. They and others say it has been particularly difficult for entrepreneurs in New York because its young venture capital industry invested so heavily in Silicon Alley's worst-hit dot-coms, like LivePerson and StarMedia. So technology entrepreneurs in New York are looking to Silicon Valley, because that is where most of the money is.
Timothy C. Draper, the founder and managing director of Draper Fisher Jurvetson, who spoke at the conference, said he thought that young New York technology companies would have a hard time finding venture money unless they were in certain subsectors. "There will always be opportunity for early-stage venture capitalists who take risks," he said. "In New York, it will probably be in media, financial services and some sciences."
Daniel H. Ahn, a former New York banker who is now a principal at the Woodside Fund, a venture capital firm in Redwood Shores, Calif., and a speaker at the conference, took a more pessimistic tone. Mr. Ahn said that his firm might invest in a company " on the East Coast, but only if we can find a partner who can play baby sitter."
During his presentation at the conference, Mr. Goldhagen pulled out slide after slide showing that the mental health software market was virtually untapped, and tried to show that his company was ahead of the handful of others. He told the audience he sought $15 million to help keep RedTop running smoothly until the company reaches profitability.
Afterward, outside the presentation room, Mr. Goldhagen said he was encouraged to keep trying, but was told that without a prime backer in New York, he would have a hard time. "We had West Coast venture firms come by and say, 'We love your company, but get us a lead investor in New York,' " he said. 
He added later, "For a company like ours, we have to suffer because of the mistakes and bad moves of the companies who came before us."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 11, 2003

 CORRECTION:
On Thursday, June 12, 2003, The Times published an Editors' Note stating that ten additional articles by Jayson Blair, who resigned on May 1 as a reporter, were found to include misrepresentations or possible borrowed passages. An accounting of those articles was published online at nytimes.com/corrections.html. This article was among those described. The description:

'Silicon Valley Investors Cool to Silicon Alley'
 In this article about the struggles of Internet entrepreneurs in obtaining funds,Mr. Blair quoted Benjamin I. Goldhagen, founder and former chief executive of Redtop, as saying, 'The way races work, is that sometime along the way it's going to be painful. But you just have to say that it's O.K., it's painful, but you got to keep going to finish the race.' But this is nearly impossible.' Mr. Goldhagen said that he did not say 'But this is nearly impossible.'

GRAPHIC: Photo: Benjamin I. Goldhagen discussing his company's prospects with Janet Stites, center, and Anna Copeland Wheatley of AlleyCat News, a Silicon Alley trade magazine. (Dan Krauss for The New York Times)(pg. B1) Chart: "LEDGER -- Nothing Ventured . . ."The rise and eventual decline in venture capital invested in New York and Silicon Valley, shown by quarter. Graph shows figures for NEW YORK METRO AREA and SILICON VALLEY from 1995-2000.(Source: PricewaterhouseCoopers and VentureOne)(pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%); HEALTH CARE (50%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: TL VENTURES (55%); DOUBLECLICK INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (98%); ANTARCTICA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



405 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: THE CENSUS/NEW YORK; 
CITY POPULATION TOPS 8 MILLION IN CENSUS COUNT FOR FIRST TIME

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

 BODY:
The population of New York City surged past eight million for the first time, a 6 percent growth spurt in the last decade that outpaced the state and suburbs for the first time in decades, according to figures released yesterday from the 2000 census. 
 The city became the engine of state growth, a change from the past. It grew by 456,000 people to 8,008,278, accounting for more than two-thirds of the total state population gain. A decade of sustained immigration, combined with several years of prosperity, helped drive the increase by drawing newcomers and persuading New Yorkers to stay put, officials and analysts said. 
 The Bronx, once the byword for urban blight, continued a rebound that began in the 1980's, posting a 7 percent gain in population. Queens and Staten Island, magnets for the immigrants who have helped restructure the city's ethnic balance and push Hispanics past blacks as the city's biggest minority group, had double-digit growth. 
The figures released by the Census Bureau contain population breakdowns by race and ethnicity, but they do not show how many people are immigrants from out of the country or out of the state. Nor is it clear how much of the increase is due to a more accurate count, although city officials say they believe that at least half the city increase reflects actual growth. 
Over all, the state grew at a slower rate of 4 percent, sharpening the contrast between the metropolitan area and the upstate region, where only a handful of towns and cities showed any growth at all. 
The population increases and decreases are based on figures for 2000 and on 1990 data for the state that were adjusted to make up for the estimated undercounting. The city population began to slip in the 1950's and grew only slightly or declined in every 10-year census until 1990. The 1980's provided the first sign of a rebirth, and the latest census figures indicate that the turnaround has become a full-fledged recovery.
The census figures offer just a preview of a more detailed demographic picture to come. But they have immediate implications for economists, businesses and politicians. 
As the numerical center of gravity in the state, New York City may be able to bulk up politically to match its demographic weight. It will gain two seats in the Assembly and one seat in the State Senate, and it could gain the muscle needed to resist attempts by upstate lawmakers to eliminate an urban Congressional seat.
The state expects to lose 2 of its 31 seats in the House of Representatives because its population increases were behind those of Southern and Western states.
The statistical evidence that New York City was center stage after decades of slow growth or decline clearly delighted Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who said the city got bigger because it became a better place to live. 
He also credited the increased population figures, in part at least, to the city's "detective work," which provided the census takers with more than 370,000 household addresses added during the past decade or missed in previous counts. 
"The flight from the city has declined a lot," the mayor said. "People were leaving because they worried about crime, the economic mix in the city, the fact that they would have to pay high taxes. So a lot of it is a better count. And a lot of it is because the city is doing so well."
The city, he added, will press its advantage with state officials. "We will make the point to the state that we are the primary reason for their jump, so that when the analysis is done as to how we distribute money the city should benefit from this," Mr. Giuliani said. 
The non-Hispanic white population of the city continued its slow decline, dropping nearly 12 percent. And the march of people to the suburbs -- the postwar story of big American cities -- has continued. But for the first time in decades, the suburbs' gain, of 5 percent, was not New York City's loss.
"This is about the changing prospects of New York and big cities," said Robert Yaro, executive director of the Regional Plan Association, a planning advocacy group. "These places are really safer, cleaner and more livable. The other related change is demographic. Baby boomers can live wherever they want. The kids are out of the house. They're tired of mowing the lawn. So we have this big countertrend of folks staying in the city or moving back in. That was an aberration until this decade."
The suburbs still attract people, but no longer just white people fleeing the city. 
Once-pastoral areas at the outer edge of the metropolitan area showed robust growth. Dutchess County grew by 7 percent and Putnam by 13 percent, for instance. Growth was slower closer to the city, where vacant land for new housing long ago became a premium in Nassau, Rockland and Westchester Counties. In that inner ring, population grew by only 4 percent.
The figures, however, mask real changes taking place along the fringes of New York City, where some of the traditional distinctions between city and suburb have been blurred. 
In the inner suburbs, Hispanics made up more than 12 percent of the 2000 population, but just under 8 percent in 1990.
Although immigrant flows are not broken out in the census data, the effects of more than 15 years of steady immigration can be seen. Statewide, for example, the Hispanic population grew by more than 25 percent in the past decade, with new clusters of Latinos in upstate cities as well as New York and its suburbs. 
In Albany and the area around it, the Hispanic population grew by nearly 50 percent, and in other upstate counties by nearly 40 percent. 
A similar trend was evident beyond the near suburbs, in once-rural areas that have increasingly become the first stop for new immigrants. About 10 percent of the population is Hispanic, more than non-Hispanic blacks. 
"The suburbs are definitely becoming more diverse in the sense that the black and Latino and Asian populations of the suburbs are rising," said John Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.
"It's still a small share compared to the city," he added. "But you're also seeing more pockets of poverty than in the past that make them more like the city."
In a reflection of the diversity that has characterized the city over the last 15 years, 5 percent of people identified themselves as members of more than one race. Nationally, just 2 percent did so. 
"One reason is that we have a higher diversity now, with the presence of new immigrants who came to the U.S. with a different view of what we call race," said Clara E. Rodriguez, a professor of sociology at Fordham University and the author of a book on changing racial identities, "Changing Race."
Her research found that many people, particularly Latinos, change the way they classify themselves for the census from decade to decade. 
"As they change their context and go to school, move to different areas or change jobs, they come to see that the way they see themselves is different from the way they are seen by others," Dr. Rodriguez said.
The picture of the state will remain out of focus for some time. The census figures released now do not provide information on the gender, employment or national origin of people. That data, and other details, will be contained in census reports to be issued over the next year or so.
For New York City and its suburbs, which have undergone the broadest demographic change, the data to come will be needed to understand the diversity.
The general racial and ethnic totals, for instance, do not distinguish between a Hispanic from Mexico and one from Chile; between a white person who may be a new Russian immigrant and a third-generation Irish-American; or between a black from the West Indies and a native-born African-American. 
Demographers and planners also will not know for some time how much of the population increase is based on new people -- that is, a net gain from the excess of births and new arrivals over deaths and departures -- or simply better counting. 
The distinction is important, not only for examining the census procedure. New arrivals to the city may take over the housing or classroom seats of those who leave. But they may not correspond in age or training to those who left. So they do not necessarily fill similar jobs or make the same demand on city services, like transportation, schools and public assistance. In short, they change the economic and social mix. 
More accurate counting, however, may well be at the heart of some growth figures. 
Monroe County, for example, grew slightly during the decade despite a population loss in the city of Rochester, which was hit hard by a loss of thousands of jobs at Eastman Kodak, once its biggest employer. The new census data show that Monroe County grew by 12,411 people. 
But it also had provided the census takers with a roster of 15,000 addresses that it said were missed in the 1990 census. Other torpid upstate cities, like Buffalo, did not revise their lists of addresses.
"We're happy to declare victory and go home," said Kent Gardner, director of economic analysis at the Center for Governmental Research in Rochester, which helped the county put together the list of addresses. "But from the statistician's perspective, the fact that we here had attention paid to that critical aspect of the census suggests the numbers may be of different accuracy in different communities."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Population Change In the City . . ."New York City's population growth can largely be attributed to big increases in Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx. The map shows percentage change from 1990 to 2000 by census tracts, which include from a handful to a few thousand people each and can be used to analyze subtle population shifts. In the suburbs, growth was slower among the counties closest to the city and faster in the outlying communities. MANHATTAN: No changeBROOKLYN: +4%STATEN ISLAND: +15%BRONX: +7%QUEENS: +11% . . . and in the Suburban CountiesLONG ISLANDNassau: +3%Suffolk: +7% NORTH OF THE CITYRockland: +6%Westchester: +4%Orange: +10%Putnam: +13%Ulster: +6%Dutchess: +7%Sullivan: +5%(Source: Census Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (96%); CITY LIFE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); ETHNICITY (77%); IMMIGRATION (75%); POLITICS (72%); MAYORS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (82%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



406 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 4700 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The New York Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. 
* denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "AFRICAN FORMS," Museum for African Art, 593 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 966-1313 (through Aug. 8). This show forgoes the figurative sculptures and masks that made African art a foundation of Western modernism to concentrate on supposedly humbler stuff, objects of physical adornment and daily use. With some 400 objects created by 156 ethnic groups, it proceeds in clusters of related carved wood neck rests, stools and boxes; ivory hairpins and snuff bottles; all kinds of jewelry; baskets and ceramic vessels; as well as spoons, weapons and musical instruments. The show is pervaded by elegance, economy of form and a sensitivity to materials that is both intensely spiritual and protomodern. Figurative sculpture and masks may be the "high art" of Africa, but there is no low. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50, students and 65+ (Roberta Smith).

* "COMMITTED TO THE IMAGE: CONTEMPORARY BLACK PHOTOGRAPHERS," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through April 29). This sharply installed survey of 94 artists covers several decades of work, much of it by a generation of photographers who came of age in the 1960's and 70's. The pictures are sorted by broad themes (people, beauty, family, religion, etc.), and formal polish tends to predominate over conceptual grit. The terrain is, over all, unsensational ordinary life, with the heat now and then turned up high. Images of urban churchgoers, Louisiana sugar cane cutters, the magnetic Billie Holiday and children in African refugee camps sit side by side. The eclectic array has its share of bland entries, but there are dozens of wonderful artists here, and their collective spirit is persuasive. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 am. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of the month). Admission: $4; $2, students and 62+ (Holland Cotter).

"THE COS COB ART COLONY: IMPRESSIONISTS ON THE CONNECTICUT SHORE," National Academy of Design Museum, 1083 Fifth Avenue, between 89th and 90th Streets, (212) 369-4880 (through May 13). From 1890 to 1920, Cos Cob, Conn., was a hangout for American Impressionist painters, led by John H. Twachtman, J. Alden Weir, Childe Hassam and Theodore Robinson. Writers and journalists added to the scene's buzz. Though art talk and theorizing ran at fever pitch, in practice the Cos Cobbers put out a quiet, conservative brand of Impressionism that emphasized a bright palette, pastoral subjects and a concentration on what the novelist and critic William Dean Howells once called "the smiling aspects of life." Still, as a footnote to American art history, Cos Cob deserves recognition. Even though this is not the most urgent exhibition in town, it includes some lovely paintings, produced by the group's minor artists as well as its stars. Hours: Wednesdays and Thursdays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5 (Grace Glueck).

"A FAMILY ALBUM: BROOKLYN COLLECTS," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5931 (through July 1). This big, uneven but frequently transcendental grab bag of an exhibition celebrates collectors of art or antiques who live in or come from Brooklyn. Eighty-six collectors of all stripes lent some of their prized possessions. The grand, wildly pluralistic total of more than 300 items includes ancient Egyptian heads, Navajo rugs, 20th-century kitsch and 21st-century avant-gardism. The exhibition covers all the bases and includes some real masterpieces, like an early Miroesque painting by de Kooning or a vividly realistic Roman portrait of a worried-looking man from 40-20 B.C. Hours and admission: See above (Ken Johnson).

* "ANDREAS GURSKY," Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400 (through May 15). The giant pictures in this mid-career retrospective of Mr. Gursky, the 46-year-old German photographer, are so eye-poppingly, drop-dead gorgeous that in this world, where no good turn goes unpunished, you may feel compelled to react with suspicion and reserve. But knee-jerk resistance at the sight of the nondescript global emblems of new capitalist sprawl that he photographs is short-circuited by sheer awe at the incredible, sublimely weird, almost erotic glamour he imparts to them. The work is instantly attractive to the point of alarm, which is the feeling of falling in love. You might as well give yourself over to it and worry about the consequences later. Hours: Thursdays through Tuesdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; until 8:15 p.m. on Fridays. Admission: $10; $6.50, students and 65+ (Michael Kimmelman).

"HERE AND THERE/AQUI Y ALLA: SIX ARTISTS FROM SAN JUAN," El Museo del Barrio, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7927 (through May 20). The six ambitious, cosmopolitan Puerto Rican artists in this show -- four men and two women, all in their 30's, all working with some form of installation -- are a lively crew. Minimalism isn't their scene; nor, in any overt way, is politics. For the most part, they are into sound, color, humor and unfastidious beauty, with several media cooking away simultaneously. The results are a high-spirited, obstacle-ridden, outre-and-proud sort of show, the kind you move slowly, even cautiously, around in, rather than one you breeze through. Hours: Wednesday through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $4; $2, students and 65+ (Cotter).

* "KENNETH JOSEPHSON: A RETROSPECTIVE," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676 (through May 27). The first full-scale career assessment for one of the earliest and most inventive explorers of photography's character and the issues of perception and representation that it raises. In the 1960's, when Mr. Josephson began commenting on it, the truthfulness of photography was still a myth with a powerful hold on the imagination. Best of all, his philosophizing is often served up with a generous portion of wit. Much of his work has never been exhibited, and he is not nearly as well known as he deserves to be. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $8, students and 62+ (Vicki Goldberg).

"MATERIAL AND MATTER," Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500 (through April 1). This is a permanent collection show with a go-getter twist. Half the work is from the museum's holdings; much of the rest is on loan from commercial galleries and adds up to a wish list for the future. The museum already owns the fine pieces by Benny Andrews and David Hammons; the loans include work by smart younger figures like Nayland Blake, Odili Donald Odita and Romuald Hazoume from Benin. In its cool way, the show is a hot mix. (Also on view is a small solo show by the San Francisco artist John Bankston, made up of pages from a visual novel-in-progress. Part 19th-century slave narrative, part fairy tale and part homoerotic S-and-M fantasy, it is as understated as it is sophisticated.) Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Fridays, to 8 p.m. Admission: $5; $3, students and 62+ (Cotter).

* PAUL McCARTHY, New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through May 13). From his far-out position where the psychic security of Hollywood's packaging of sex and violence doesn't exist, Mr. McCarthy taps veins deep in the collective subconscious, far beyond where most shock artists have the audacity or intelligence to operate. He has been a cultish presence in Los Angeles for years, and his moment has finally come in New York with this retrospective and shows at Luhring Augustine in Chelsea, Deitch Projects in SoHo and, in collaboration with the Public Art Fund, at the public atrium on the northwest corner of 56th Street and Madison Avenue. We see an artist of wild highs and lows, of black comedy, cheap jokes, unspeakable actions, dry formalism and some real fiascos -- the mark of an artist risking failure, a good sign. There is something beyond mere Pop parody or social provocation in the work, something to do with deep private needs and desires, which we perceive secondhand as comic pathos. It is art as tough therapy, disturbingly honest. Hours: Wednesdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays through Saturdays, noon to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, artists, students and 65+ (Kimmelman).

* CHARLOTTE SALOMON, Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200 (through March 25). Put aside as much as possible the grim death that has boxed Salomon, like Anne Frank, into the eye-glazing, inviolate category of Holocaust artist, a disservice to her. "Life? Or Theater?," her quasi-fictional diary of text and nearly 800 pictures cued to musical themes, will make you feel that you are in good company while flattering your intelligence. The allusions are varied, the tone at times surprisingly light. Film was a big inspiration to Salomon. Images vary among close-ups, flashbacks, long shots and montage. She had an illustrator's gift for distillation and paraphrase. The result is a complex meditation on the connection between love and art. It is a coming-of-age story about a woman squeezing a whole life into one great gesture. Ultimately, the energy counts most, a civilizing energy. "Take good care of it," Salomon told the man to whom she entrusted the work before she was shipped to Auschwitz. "It is my whole life." So it was. Hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; Tuesdays to 8 p.m. Admission: $8; $5.50, students and 65+ (Kimmelman).

* "THE TREASURY OF BASEL CATHEDRAL," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through May 27). The jewel-embellished gold and silver liturgical objects and reliquaries in this show exist on some exotic outer fringe of beauty, where the crass and the ineffable meet. Together they have a cliffhanger of a tale to tell, as frustrating as it is uplifting. (They were preserved as an ensemble until Basel city politics intervened in the 19th century.) There's the rarity factor: almost none of the 75 works have visited the United States before. And it's hard to remember the last time anything quite like their single-minded incandescence radiated from a local museum. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:15 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 8:45 p.m. Admission: $10; $5, students and 65+ (Cotter).

* "VAN GOGH'S POSTMAN: THE PORTRAITS OF JOSEPH ROULIN," Museum of Modern Art, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400 (through May 15). This revelatory micro-exhibition reunites five portraits of the postal worker Joseph Roulin, whom van Gogh met while living in Arles in the south of France. The show affords an excellent opportunity to study the painter's craft as he processes a single motif through a series of approaches from painterly naturalism to richly patterned symbolism. It is fascinating as well to see the portraits in light of the biographical background. Roulin cared for van Gogh after the famous ear-cutting incident, and he grew in the artist's imagination from an amusing local character to a figure of Christ-like benevolence. Hours and admission: See above. (Johnson).

* "VERMEER AND THE DELFT SCHOOL," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500 (through May 27). Genius does not flourish in a vacuum. That's the simple lesson vividly conveyed by this alternately tousled and crystalline exhibition. With 15 Vermeers -- nearly half his known paintings -- serving as ballast, this exhibition almost giddily spotlights a succession of artists, tracking the emergence of an increasingly effortless illusionism in Delft in the 1650's and 60's. Flower still lifes, whitewashed church interiors, townscapes and genre scenes by Pieter de Hooch, Carel Fabritius and Gerard Houckgeest are part of the mix, along with drawings and a breathtaking selection of small landscapes by artists you've never heard of. All this contextualizing sharpens one's sense of Vermeer's achievement, but it also spells out the milieu without which he would not have been Vermeer. Hours and admission: See above (Smith).

Galleries: 57th Street

FLAVIO GARCIANDIA, Galeria Ramis Barquet, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 644-9090 (through March 24). The elegant abstractions in this Cuban painter's New York debut have savvy, sharp-tongued titles like "I Insulted Brice Marden in Havana (Twice)," which they don't quite live up to -- but that may be the point. They are the work of a skilled ironist whose works from the 1980's kept abreast of the decade's style-mongering tendencies. While similarly inclined, his new efforts are more subdued and transitional in feeling. But they indicate an artist with talent, touch and a healthy sense of skepticism, and leave one waiting for his next move (Smith).

* "OUR BEAUTIFUL AND TORMENTED AUSTRIA: ART BRUT IN THE LAND OF FREUD," Galerie St. Etienne, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 245-6734 (through March 31). This extraordinary show introduces the recently discovered work of two self-taught Viennese artists: Emanuel Navratil (1875-1956), who made large colored-pencil drawings that transformed his native city into a magical kingdom of fantasy architecture, intricate pattern and bourgeois contentment; and Josef Karl Radler (1844-1917), a retired porcelain painter whose fusions of writing and painting infuse scenes of the hospital where he spent his final years with a power akin to illuminated manuscripts (Smith).

ROBERT OVERBY, "Stairwell, Paul's Place," Grant Selwyn Fine Art, 37 West 57th Street, (212) 755-0434 (through April 1). Overby (1935-1993) is known for the latex rubber castings of rooms and architectural elements that he began making in the early 1970's. This show features the ghostly imprint of a whole stairwell. Suspended in the middle of the gallery, the boxy volume, with details of moldings, wall textures and various fixtures preserved in the fleshy, dirty yellow rubber, seems at once preposterous and scientific (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

BRIAN ALFRED, Max Protetch, 511 West 22nd Street, (212) 633-6999 (through March 24). A current minitrend has some young painters using tape to stencil hard-edged, 1960's-style acrylic pictures of the modern built environment. Mr. Alfred, having his first solo exhibition, is an adept practitioner of the genre. The cheerful neo-Pop surfaces of his pictures of a swimming pool, a great suspension bridge or a building being demolished mask rueful emotions about utopian modernism (Johnson).

GLEN BAXTER, "Unmitigated Ramifications," Lombard-Freid, 531 West 26th Street, (212) 967-8040 (through March 24). This delightfully witty cartoonist, familiar to readers of The New Yorker, is at his best when he gently mocks pretentious high culture, as in his image of two cowboys lounging around a campfire. Holding up a small canvas, one declares, "Working out here helps me to address the problem of the notion of the nonrepresentational as an absolute" (Johnson).

SOPHIE CALLE, "Double Game," Paula Cooper Gallery, 534 West 21st Street, (212) 255-1105 (through March 24). This French-born Conceptual artist is a world-class snoop. Her art consists largely of spying on people -- cleaning rooms in a Venice hotel, for example, to get a line on their anonymous occupants. In TriBeCa in 1994, she adopted a public phone booth for a week, stocked it with snacks, drinks and flowers and stationed herself nearby to chat with its users and listen to telephone talk. As a diarist, Ms. Calle is amusingly deadpan, and her obsessively detailed reports on her antics have a certain fascination. But she is no great shakes as a photographer, and the long sequences of shots documenting her actions are less than compelling (Glueck).

THERESA HACKETT, "Going Off," Florence Lynch, 147 West 29th Street, (212) 967-7584 (through March 31). Airy or oceanic blue flux and little boxes in loose grids are the bipolar terms of Ms. Hackett's expansive, doodlelike drawings. In her whimsical play with patterning and collage, and the addition of three-dimensional elements like piles of fabric swatches, there is an appealing idiosyncrasy (the work of Diana Cooper comes to mind) that would be worth pushing into more unpredictable territory (Johnson).

ROBERT F. HAMMERSTIEL, Cristinerose, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 206-0297 (through March 31). This Austrian photographer focuses on the dog industry to critique capitalism. Photographs of dog leashes alternate with small mug shots of dog owners. Each in a series of thin boxes displays a dog portrait and an actual syringe used for inserting identification microchips under the animal's skin. This may sound like a parody of some kind of neo-Marxist Conceptualism, but it is not particularly funny. Perhaps Mr. Hammerstiel is serious: that would be funny (Johnson).

CHRIS LARSON, "The Gastral Colony," Rare, 435 West 14th Street, (212) 645-5591 (through March 24). The main attraction of this interesting young sculptor's New York debut is a trio of bizarre machines designed, it seems, to perform possibly torturous operations on human bodies. Remarkably, these contraptions with their levers, plungers, gears and clamps are assembled almost entirely of rough-hewn wood. They have an antique, folksy look, as if they had been built by a loony Amish inventor (Johnson).

MICHAEL LAZARUS, "Exceptance," Feature, 530 West 25th Street, (212) 675-7772 (through April 7). Combining glossy enamel paint and elements of Modernist abstraction and Asian patterning, Mr. Lazarus makes symmetrical panel paintings -- with cutouts, in some cases -- that revolve around the image of a simplified mask, part jack o'lantern, part skull. These cheerfully decorative works have slightly sinister implications; they could be icons for some secret cult (Johnson).

BEVERLY SEMMES, Leslie Tonkonow, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-8450 (through April 14). An artist known for her sculptures in the form of gigantically oversize women's clothing, here presents something monumental and absurd but abstract: a great, vaguely fecal mound of convoluted, fat, stuffed tubes of electric green nylon. Gallery personnel are wearing overalls made from the same material, which creates a mysterious sense of industrial purpose (Johnson).

LEON TARASEWICZ, Gary Tatintsian, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 633-0110 (through March 31). Mr. Tarasewicz, selected to represent Poland in the Venice Biennale later this year, paints brushy striped compositions on canvas and, more interestingly, turns whole galleries into striped environments. Here fuzzy brown stripes alternating with blue, white or green wrap around a series of thick partitions and cover one wall, creating an enveloping interplay of Minimalist structure and humming painterly surface (Johnson).

Galleries: SoHo

"AT THE EDGE: THE HORIZON LINE IN CONTEMPORARY ART," Dorsky, 379 West Broadway, near Spring Street, (212) 966-6170 (through April 14). This 15-artist group show might have taken a less literal, more imaginative approach to its potentially rich theme, but it offers some pleasing pictures. These include three small, delicately atmospheric seascapes painted by Pat de Groot and assorted expansive photographic landscapes or waterscapes that range in style from lush color pictures by Stuart Klipper and Richard Misrach to the Minimalistic black-and-white approaches of Hiroshi Sugimoto or Tom Bamburger (Johnson).

CHRIS MARTIN, Malca, 580 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-8854 (through March 31) and at Sideshow, 319 Bedford Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 486-8180 (through March 19). Mr Martin is a perennially interesting and admirably unfashionable painter. At Malca, a canvas measuring 10 by 36 feet and bearing a stack of white rectangles topped by a flying-saucer-like form, looks like a giant sign made by a nonartist who had a close encounter of the third kind. At Sideshow, pictures of orange or yellow boxes against sky blue fields are richer as paintings and transcendentally suggestive as images (Johnson).

ERIN O'KEEFE AND VINCENT SZAREK, Sandra Gering, 476 Broome Street, (212) 226-8195 (through March 24). Two sculptors each combine Minimalist structure and lush material: Ms. O'Keefe arranges colored blocks and mirrors in boxes behind squares of frosted glass, creating blurry, spatially ambiguous compositions. Mr. Szarek, borrowing from custom-car culture, fabricates sleek, undulating wall works with glossy automotive paint jobs; one beauty sports a sumptuous candy-colored cherry red metalflake coating (Johnson).

ROBERT SCHMID, Sears-Peyton, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 966-7469 (through March 31). With sensitive, assiduous craft, Mr. Schmid paints small-scale copies of blurred, smeared, double-exposed or otherwise distorted snapshots of people, city streets and natural landscapes that were taken with a defective camera. He organizes these images into gridded compositions that have a moody, cinematic quality (Johnson).

Other Galleries

ROBERT JACK, "Webs and Flow," 123 Watts, 123 Watts Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-1482 (through March 31). With sharp instruments, a delicate touch and considerable industry, this young artist makes densely accumulative abstract drawings. Many are grid-based; others suggest geological surfaces or bundles of nerves; some involve holes repeatedly poked in long rolls of graph paper with a heating element (Johnson).

Last Chance

* BODY AND THE EAST: FROM THE 1960'S TO THE PRESENT, Exit Art/The Third World, 548 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 966-7745 (through tomorrow). Organized in 1998 by the Museum of Modern Art in Ljubljana, Slovenia, this exhibition surveys the body and performance work of some 100 artists or artists' collectives from 14 former Soviet bloc countries. It represents a tremendous effort of retrieval, adds many new names, locations and artworks to the constantly expanding map of postwar art and offers further proof that American and Western European artists did not and do not act alone (Smith).

"CONFRONTATIONAL CLAY: THE ARTIST AS SOCIAL CRITIC," American Craft Museum, 40 West 53rd Street, (212) 956-3535 (through today). This intermittently interesting show makes an inconsistent case for clay as a medium of social criticism, but it offers some fine ceramic works, including Robert Arneson's grisly, charred head on a pedestal, "Nuclear Warhead"; Nancy Fried's sensitive rendering of her own naked, corpulent torso with one breast lost to surgery; Ann Agee's assortment of sex toys glazed in traditional Delftware patterns; and Cynthia Consentino's figurines representing young schoolgirls brandishing handguns or assault rifles. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Thursdays, to 8 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50, students and 65+ (Johnson).

* OSKAR KOKOSCHKA, "Memorial Exhibition," Marlborough Gallery, 40 West 57th Street, (212) 541-4900 (through tomorrow). This show is a continual reminder that Kokoschka, who died in 1980 at 93, gave his whole self, without evasion and without stinting, in everything he did. It begins with his portraits of the composers Webern (1914) and Schoenberg (1925); continues with his big cityscapes, with their attention to telling detail; and makes a strong case for his late watercolors, in which the image is briskly defined and the color has an irresistible energy. This hand never shook (John Russell).

* HARRIET KORMAN, Lennon, Weinberg, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 941-0012 (through tomorrow). In her beautiful new paintings, it looks as if Ms. Korman has achieved a harmonic convergence of all her painterly energies. Each squarish, medium-size canvas offers a flat, thinly but sensuously painted harlequin patchwork of richly hued, interlocking shapes. Klee, Miro, Kandinsky and Mondrian come to mind, but these paintings have their own fresh, contemporary feel (Johnson).

"THE OPULENT EYE OF ALEXANDER GIRARD," Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400 (through Sunday). The first comprehensive look at the multifaceted work of this architect and designer. Girard's contribution to contemporary design was a free approach that incorporated all sorts of visual stimuli, from Italian stage sets to Mexican folk art to motifs from modern technology, making exuberant use of color, pattern, texture and ornament. In photographs, models and objects, the exhibition displays his fabrics, graphics, interiors, furniture, tableware, radio cabinets and much else. A whole room is devoted to the more than 300 fabric and wallpaper designs he created for the Herman Miller Furniture Company from the 1950's to the early 1970's, with fresh patterns and colors that pushed the limits of middle-class taste. While Girard may not have been a heavyweight in American design, he was one of its liveliest figures. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Tuesdays until 9 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $8; $3, students and 62+ (Glueck).

* "PERFECTING MANKIND: EUGENICS AND PHOTOGRAPHY," International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 860-1777 (through Sunday). A timely exercise wildly disproportionate in significance to its size, this one-room show tackles the complicated story of photography's supporting role in eugenics, the pseudoscience of human breeding. Via 19th-century composite portraits of Jews, snapshots of "Fitter Family" and "Perfect Baby" contest winners and early Nazi photographs of Aryans, it tracks the arc of eugenics' popularity, an object lesson for this era of genetic engineering. And it shows the dubious results of an unreflective faith in technological science, in this case the new technology of photography, which seemed at the time a reliable instrument of reason. The exhibition is a reminder that photographs almost always say less than people think or want, and sometimes precious little except about the prejudices of the viewer. Hours: Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6, students and 62+ (Kimmelman).

"SIX AMERICAN PAINTERS AND THE PHOTOGRAPH," Zabriskie, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 752-1223 (through tomorrow). This illuminating show takes us back to a time long before big color photographs began to invade the territory once occupied solely by painting. For Konrad Cramer, Ralston Crawford, Yasuo Kuniyoushi, Ben Shahn, Richard Pousette-Dart and Charles Sheeler -- each represented by black-and-white photographs and modest paintings or drawings -- photography could stand on its own or inform the composition of paintings, but it never called into question the need for painting the way it does today (Johnson).

"ANDY WARHOL: PHOTOGRAPHY," International Center of Photography, 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 860-1777 (through Sunday). When Warhol died in 1987, he left some 100,000 photographs in the form of prints, contact sheets and negatives. This exhibition is the first major examination of this material and focuses on its relationship to Warhol's photo-based paintings, early and late. Taken strictly as a display of photographs, the show feels a little thin, mostly because his output in the medium was almost willfully insubstantial. But as a fresh take on his hugely influential work and complex personality, the results are entertaining and sometimes revealing. Included is one of his "time capsules," cardboard boxes that he periodically filled with the material clutter of his life, then sealed, dated and stored away. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6, students and 62+ (Cotter).

GRAPHIC: Photos: A detail from "The Chromatic Diet" by the Conceptual artist Sophie Calle, in her show "Double Game" at Paula Cooper in Chelsea. (Paula Cooper Gallery); "Munch Monstrance," from "The Treasury of Basel Cathedral." (Metropolitan Museum of Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); SCULPTURE (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PAINTING (78%); RELIGION (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); ETHNICITY (54%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (53%); MUSIC (53%); REFUGEES (50%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



407 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
A change at TWBA illustrates concerns over a slow economy.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
THE LEADER of one of the three large worldwide agencies operated by the Omnicom Group in New York is suddenly being replaced in a surprising shift that speaks to the increasing concern along Madison Avenue over the economic slowdown.
 Omnicom, the world's second-largest agency company in billings and third largest in revenue, is replacing Michael Greenlees, who has been president and chief executive at TBWA Worldwide in New York since May 1998. TBWA, which includes the well-known TBWA/Chiat/Day agency, is the smallest of the three Omnicom global networks, after BBDO Worldwide and DDB Worldwide. TBWA has billings estimated at $6.5 billion from brands like Apple, Energizer, Levi's and Nissan. 
 Mr. Greenlees, 54, is being succeeded by Jean-Marie Dru, 54. Mr. Dru reported to Mr. Greenlees as president and chief executive for the TBWA international operations, supervising offices in all countries outside the Americas. Mr. Dru was deemed instrumental in helping to persuade Nissan Motor not to leave the agency last summer. That was a considerable accomplishment because the company is TBWA's largest client, as well as Omnicom's second largest, after DaimlerChrysler.
The change in leadership at TBWA is a sign of the increasing scrutiny of agency performance as the economy sputters and uncertainty grows over whether clients will proceed with the spending plans for 2001 that they made as recently as December.
There is less tolerance for underperformance, much less bad performance, as the wagons are circled in case the economy and consumer confidence deteriorate further and an actual advertising recession begins. As a result, the ability of top agency executives to care for and feed current clients effectively, as well as skillfully and successfully woo potential clients, looms larger.
For instance, Mr. Greenlees was not identified with any one TBWA client the way Mr. Dru is with Nissan Motor; the absence of such relationships can be harmful.
"I don't know how else it could be anyone else," said a senior agency executive. "He saved the Nissan account." The executive, who once worked with Mr. Greenlees, spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Mr. Dru will work with Lee Clow, who will continue as chairman and worldwide creative director at TBWA, based in Playa del Rey, Calif., which is a principal office of TBWA/Chiat/Day.
Mr. Dru, who has been based in Paris, will move to New York. The online edition of the trade publication Adweek reported on Tuesday that Mr. Greenlees would leave TBWA and identified Mr. Dru as a front-runner for the top job.
Mr. Greenlees is not being dismissed. Rather, he is taking what was described in a news release from Omnicom as "a new leadership position" at the agency company, focused on "working to advance its e-services strategy."
Pat Sloan, a spokeswoman for Omnicom, declined to elaborate on that vague wording; she said there would be further word about Mr. Greenlees's new duties and title "in the very near future."
Omnicom has been ahead of its competitors in the realm of interactive advertising, taking stakes in many top agencies specializing in Internet marketing, which are managed by a unit named Communicade.
The release took pains to praise Mr. Greenlees's performance, noting that under his tenure, billings rose to $6.5 billion last year from $5.1 billion in 1998. But the agency had difficulty landing additional worldwide clients, falling short, for example, in a review for the Delta Air Lines account in 1999. Delta left Saatchi & Saatchi in New York for the Leo Burnett Company in Chicago.
Mr. Greenlees joined TBWA months after Omnicom acquired the GGT Group in London, an agency company he founded and expanded until it ran into problems after losing large clients at one of its agencies, BDDP Worldwide. The acquisition, which gave Omnicom control of agencies including GSD&M in Austin, Tex., and Martin/Williams in Minneapolis, ended Mr. Greenlees's plans to keep expanding GGT as an independent agency company so it could compete against Omnicom and other giants like Havas Advertising, the Interpublic Group of Companies and the Publicis Groupe.
At TBWA, Mr. Greenlees succeeded Bill Tragos, the "T" in TBWA, who retired after presiding over the merger of TBWA with Chiat/Day.
That merger, along with the merger of BDDP into TBWA, produced a worldwide agency network that included disparate units that were all charged with cooperating on creative and account tasks but that were used to operating on their own. The challenge of helping to reduce the fractious relations among the various fiefs and building a cohesive TBWA fell to Mr. Greenlees, who encountered difficulties there.
The departure of Mr. Greenlees is the second time in three months that a top executive of TBWA has left the agency. In January, Bob Kuperman, president and chief executive at the North American operations of TBWA/Chiat/Day, joined an Omnicom sibling, DDB, as chairman of its flagship New York office.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Greenlees's position may have been undercut because he was not linked to any one client. (TBWA Worldwide) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (98%); TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (72%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (56%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (98%); 7201 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (58%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



408 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: UAL and AMR Join Other Airlines in Issuing Profit Warnings 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN

 BODY:
The country's two largest airlines warned investors yesterday that a decline in passengers amid a weakening economy would hurt their first- quarter results more than expected.
 By issuing the separate warnings, the two airlines, the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, and the AMR Corporation, the parent of American Airlines, joined most other major carriers in predicting either bigger losses or lower-than-expected profits for the quarter. Only Continental Airlines and Southwest Airlines have not issued formal warnings. 
 United said that its loss would be substantially deeper than the loss of $2.82 a share that analysts had forecast. The company, which had expected to break even this year despite months of labor woes, said that it would probably end up losing money and would try to cut $200 million in expenses. 
"The softening of the U.S. economy has had an industrywide effect on business travel demand," James E. Goodwin, United's chief executive, said in a statement. "While our 2001 business plan assumed a challenging financial environment, the economic situation has deteriorated more than expected." 
Analysts expected AMR to earn 34 cents a share during the quarter. But in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the company said that softening passenger demand combined with a brief labor disruption at Kennedy Airport and winter storms in the Northeast and Dallas would result in "a modest loss." 
Earlier this week, Delta Air Lines, the third-biggest American carrier, said that it would post a loss of $85 million to $110 million for the quarter, blaming passenger worries over a potential strike by its pilots. Fourth-ranked Northwest Airlines, which is facing a potential strike by mechanics in May, said Wednesday that it would lose as much as $150 million. Before that, US Airways had also warned that earnings would be well below Wall Street forecasts.
Analysts had been expecting a warning from United, but some were taken aback at American's prediction of a loss.
"This is a surprise," said Raymond E. Neidl, an airline analyst at ING Baring in New York. "It's not as bad as Delta and Northwest, but it is a surprise."
Investors seemed to take yesterday's news in stride after the earlier warnings from the other carriers. The share prices of most of the major airlines, with the exception of US Airways, rose yesterday. AMR was up $1.73, closing at $34.54. UAL closed at $36.55, up $1.45. Both trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
Mr. Neidl said it appeared that economizing by business travelers to avoid paying high last-minute fares was a bigger factor in the airlines' weakness than any actual fall in the number of passengers. He still expects the economic slowdown to be relatively mild, he added, meaning that the industry could recover in the second half of the year. 
"If they can get the labor contracts squared away and get some help from lower oil prices, the second half of the year can be salvaged," Mr. Neidl said.
But Kevin Murphy, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, warned that "if things don't pick up by midyear, the losses for the first quarter could end up becoming losses for the entire year."
Southwest Airlines, the industry's low-fare leader, traditionally does well during economic downturns, because travelers look for bargains. A spokesman for Continental said that it, too, had seen some softening, particularly in business travel, but the airline has not issued a formal warning. Continental did say that its first-quarter earnings would be hurt by a winter storm that forced many cancellations at its Newark hub earlier this month.
Like Delta and Northwest, United and American are in contentious labor negotiations in which unions are asking for large wage increases, citing the record profits earned by the airlines since their last contracts were signed in the mid-1990's. 
Mr. Murphy speculated that the airlines were probably not too unhappy to report bad economic news right now. "If I were a manager, I would certainly be using the soft landing for everything I could get," he said. "Clearly labor has to be sobered by this whole experience." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFIT WARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (94%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (85%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (85%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



409 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1797 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Sales Of Technology Are No Longer A U.S. Refuge 

BYLINE:  By WAYNE ARNOLD with SUZANNE KAPNER

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, March 15 

 BODY:
American technology companies, whose recent earnings declines in the United States have been softened by strong sales abroad, now appear to be facing a slowdown overseas as well.
 A slump in technology sales in Asia, coupled with signs that growth in Europe may also be ebbing, is raising concern among analysts that instead of insulating American technology industries from the domestic slowdown, foreign markets may worsen the trend this year. Together, Asia and Europe account for almost half of global sales in information technology, according to the International Data Corporation, a market research firm. 
 "It looks like it's going to be a globally synchronized downturn," said Steven Milunovich, technology strategist at Merrill Lynch in New York. While analysts have been hoping for a strong industry bounce in the second half of the year, he said, "I think if the rest of the world worsens, we're talking about a U-shaped recovery." 
"I think it means you can write off this year for earnings," he said.
In Asia, commonly one of the fastest-growing markets for technology products, strong demand last year for computers and other information technology took some of the edge off sharply slower sales at home.
But as slower growth in the United States weakens the demand for Asian exports, and as home-grown economic problems push Asian currencies lower, growth in Asian technology sales could edge below 10 percent this year, according to International Data, from more than 16 percent in 2000. The research firm said it expects to reduce its estimates further in coming weeks as reports accumulate on the effects of the slowdown in the United States.
"The economic environment is worsening and consumers are becoming more conservative," said Junichi Saeki, a senior analyst at International Data's subsidiary in Japan, Asia's largest market for technology products. "Corporate spending is declining."
What makes the overseas slowdown so remarkable is how suddenly it appears to have overtaken the industry. Just weeks ago, companies like Oracle, Sun Microsystems and Cisco Systems were citing robust sales in Asia and Europe as bright spots in otherwise gloomy financial results.
"Sales growth for Oracle products in Europe and Asia-Pacific remained strong," said Oracle's chairman and chief executive, Lawrence J. Ellison, announcing on March 1 that profits would come in below forecasts. "The problem is the U.S. economy."
A little more than a month ago, Cisco assured investors that sales overseas, which account for roughly half its revenue, remained strong. Then last Friday, Cisco's chief executive, John Chambers, said his company could see "initial signs of a slowdown expanding to other parts of the world," in explaining why Cisco might eliminate as many as 5,000 full-time jobs -- 11 percent of the work force.
Also among signs that the United States is exporting its slowdown are the latest revenue figures from the dominant chip maker, Intel, which relies on Asia and Europe for more than 60 percent of its global sales. After a year of at least 25 percent quarterly growth, sales growth in Asia dropped back to 16 percent in the fourth quarter of 2000. Intel's European sales fell almost 2 percent.
Some economists have warned for more than a year that Asia's export-driven economies would suffer from a slowdown in American demand for technology-related products. In January, Japan posted its first trade deficit in four years as exports to the United States and the rest of Asia slowed and the price of imported crude oil increased.
Nonetheless, many executives and analysts expressed hope that demand in Asia and Europe might weather a slowdown in the United States. Emboldened by resilient foreign demand last year, some of them predicted that economies overseas -- having largely missed out on the kind of boom that churned out new fortunes in America almost daily -- would be spared the bust. In addition, companies in Europe and Asia lagged behind their American competitors in adopting technologies to streamline their businesses, so demand for new equipment might remain strong, they thought.
Executives and others used similar logic to explain why Asian sales would not suffer when financial crisis erupted there in 1997. Asian companies, they argued, needed their equipment too much not to spend -- a view that turned out to be woefully wrong. Spending on technology was one of the first things that Asian companies cut, and revenue declined.
Not all high-technology executives ignored the risk of a ripple effect abroad this time. As she announced a 59 percent drop in quarterly profit last month, the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, Carleton S. Fiorina, said her company was concerned that economic weakness in the United States could spread to areas dependent on exports like Mexico, South Korea and Taiwan.
Ms. Fiorina's worries now seem to be coming true. International Data expects growth in Taiwan to slip, and predicts the South Korean market will grow little more than 2 percent after swelling 47 percent last year.
Compounding South Korea's problems is a sharp decline in the value of its currency, the won. The won has dropped 13 percent against the dollar in the last six months, making imports from the United States that much more expensive for Korean customers. 
All this would matter less if Asia, like the United States, were a big buyer of high-technology services. But hardware sales dominate the market, making Asian demand more vulnerable to turmoil in the foreign-exchange markets. Services can be priced in local currencies, but hardware typically carries a dollar price tag.
The biggest dent in Asian sales growth comes from Japan. Despite an economy with virtually flat growth for the last decade, Japan's market for information technology has boomed. Analysts credit a popular fascination with the Internet that has spurred sales of personal computers, especially more expensive laptops. Also aiding sales were deregulatory measures that pushed banks and manufacturers to overhaul some of their operations and embrace Western networking concepts like companywide raw-materials planning, customer relationship management and data mining.
As a result, Japanese companies and banks that once prided themselves on running huge, in-house networks have realized that they can import expertise and achieve savings by handing over the running of those operations to specialists like I.B.M. In the last year, I.B.M. has signed major contracts with companies including Daiwa Bank, NKK Steel, Nissan and Nippon Telegraph and Telephone. 
But this drive for competitiveness at some businesses is apparently insufficient to overcome the country's economic troubles. Double-digit growth in Japanese technology services declined to just over 4 percent last year, and the International Data Corporation estimates that growth will not be much better this year. 
Sales of personal computers are slumping as the ardor of Japanese for the Internet cools and competition drives down PC prices. International Data predicts that the PC market there will grow slightly more than 7 percent this year, after growth of more than 25 percent in 2000. Not only has interest peaked in Internet access by personal computer, Mr. Saeki of International Data says, but competition from mobile phones able to download e-mail and surf the Web is eating into demand.
A similar lag is being played out less markedly in Europe. Unlike South Korea and Southeast Asia's export-dependent economies, Europe has enough internal trade and economic dynamism to insulate itself somewhat from the drop in American growth, economists say.
"The trans-Atlantic umbilical cord is still pretty strong," said Paul Horne, a European equity market economist with Schroder Salomon Smith Barney in London. "But the American and European economies seem to be less correlated than in the past."
In large part, that is the result of the increasing cohesion of the European Union. Just 2.25 percent of the 15 European Union countries' combined gross national product is exported to the United States, Mr. Horne said, making the region less susceptible to the American slowdown. That compares with 16 percent of output sold within the European bloc, he said.
Nevertheless, growth in Europe is expected to slow. International Data forecasts that growth in information technology will dip to 11.1 percent this year, from 12.5 percent in 2000. And when telecommunications is included, the drop is expected to be sharper -- to 8.8 percent this year, from 10.6 percent in 2000. Martin Hingley, vice president for European systems at International Data in Britain, acknowledged that the estimate is optimistic, given the economic tides buffeting the Continent from across the Atlantic. He said his firm was in the process of lowering its forecasts for Europe.
The telecommunications industry accounts for roughly half of total spending on information technology in Europe, according to International Data. On Monday, the Swedish electronics producer LM Ericsson warned it would report a first-quarter loss, as demand slackened on both sides of the Atlantic. Nokia of Finland, the world's largest maker of mobile phones, had issued its own warning of a slowdown. Today, Nokia confirmed that first-quarter profit would be about the same as a year earlier, even though sales are falling short of expectations.
All this can be seen as more bad news for companies like Intel and Compaq that make chips and servers for mobile devices.
"Any impact on demand for mobile phones impacts the suppliers," said Graham Palmer, a spokesman for Intel, one of the largest suppliers of flash memory devices for mobile devices. Mr. Palmer said the softening demand in the United States had spread to Europe and Asia.
And so, analysts say, companies looking for shelter abroad this year will have to look to China, Asia's second-largest market for technology products after Japan and its fastest-growing one. International Data expects sales growth in China to continue this year around 30 percent, providing a lone bright spot in the gathering Asian gloom.
Though China runs an enormous trade surplus with the United States, its economy is proportionately less dependent than others on such exports. At the same time, China is trying to overhaul its economy, make state-owned enterprises profitable and prepare private enterprise for the threat of foreign competition that entry into the World Trade Organization will bring.
That, say technology executives, means more computers and more networks. "There is pent-up demand waiting to be capitalized on," said Muan Lim, Hewlett-Packard's vice president for technology financing, based in Hong Kong. China's companies, he said, "need to compete, so they need to develop their I.T. systems."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cisco Systems' chief executive, John Chambers, explaining changing market conditions on Wednesday in Boston. Cisco, the leading company in networking technology, may eliminate 11 percent of its full-time staff. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) Chart: "No Relief"Many American technology companies, facing falling demand domestically because of the slowing United States economy, had hoped that they could pick up sales in Europe and Asia. But analysts expect that sales growth in those markets, too, will slow this year. SALES OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES EST. 2000 SALES (BILLIONS)Asia: $178.08Japan: 112.76China: 15.28South Korea: 11.94Taiwan: 4.58India: 4.22Western Europe: 284.3 SALES GROWTH 1999-2000Asia: +16.3%Japan: +11.9China: +40.0South Korea: +46.7Taiwan: +14.8India: +34.9Western Europe: +12.5 SALES GROWTH 2000-2001Asia: + 9.6%Japan: + 6.6China: + 29.7South Korea: + 2.2Taiwan: + 13.5India: + 28.5Western Europe: + 11.1(Source: International Data Corporation)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); TRENDS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); EXECUTIVES (67%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (66%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (87%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (83%); ORACLE CORP (74%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (52%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (87%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (87%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (87%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (74%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (74%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (74%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (74%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (74%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (74%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (50%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ASIA (97%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); TAIWAN (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



410 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Bank Sale Advances Plan for New Big Board Base 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
J. P. Morgan Chase & Company has agreed to sell an office building it owns at 15 Broad Street to New York City for $220 million, paving the way for the city to build new headquarters for the New York Stock Exchange, officials said.
 The 982,000-square-foot building, with entrances at 15 Broad and 23 Wall Street, encompasses the low-rise white marble building that J. Pierpont Morgan built as headquarters for his bank in 1913. That building's front facade, which now serves as an entranceway for the 39-story tower above, is a designated landmark and will become part of the new stock exchange building under the city's plans. 
 A J. P. Morgan spokeswoman, Charlotte Gilbert-Biro, issued a statement confirming the sale without disclosing terms. Ms. Gilbert-Biro also said the company had withdrawn a petition it filed in New York State Supreme Court last week challenging the property's appraisal.
With the sale, two of the three property owners with buildings in the way of the $930 million project have agreed to sell to the city's Economic Development Corporation. The agency's president, Michael Carey, disclosed the price, saying he thought the project had "momentum" and that demolition could begin early next year.
The third building, which is owned by the Wilf family, will be seized through a court-imposed condemnation rather than negotiation, Mr. Carey said. He said he expected the city to obtain the building sometime this summer.
Some public interest groups have attacked the project as "corporate welfare" because of the $1 billion in tax breaks and subsidies that the city and state have supplied. In addition, tenants at 45 Wall Street, an apartment building the city has agreed to buy from the Rockrose Development Corporation for $160 million, have sued to block their evictions.
A judge agreed on Wednesday to hear the tenants' arguments, said Ray Fleischhacker, a tenants association spokesman. Briefs are to be submitted next week. The tenants say the evictions violate the condemnation statute, which requires a "public purpose" before a property can be taken.
While declining to discuss the details, Mr. Carey said he did not expect the lawsuit to hold up the project. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); EVICTION (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PETITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); ROCKROSE DEVELOPMENT CORP (65%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (65%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (65%) SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



411 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Russians Question Wisdom Of Their Coziness With Iran 

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 15 

 BODY:
President Vladimir V. Putin is deep in the Siberian taiga -- either skiing or hunting wolves, the Kremlin will not say for sure -- but here in the capital there is no vacation from the political debate that Russia's blossoming relationship with Iran has touched off.
 A state visit this week by the Iranian president, Mohammad Khatami, the first of its kind since the Iranian revolution, has not only set off alarms in the Bush administration over Moscow's determination to sell arms and nuclear technology to Tehran. It has also caused prominent Russians to question the prudence of developing warmer relations with a country believed to be supporting terrorism. 
 "The patron of international terrorism has been promised increased sales of arms and broader cooperation in the nuclear energy field," the newspaper Sevodnya said on Wednesday, summing up the visit, which it said had "lived up to Washington's worst expectations." Mr. Putin met with the Iranian leader on Monday and then left for his four-day vacation. 
"The Khatami presidency is a liberal facade for the fundamentalist regime," Izvestia said after the visit, under a headline "Dangerous Deal." The real power in Iran, the newspaper warned on Wednesday, "is held not by the liberal Khatami but by the ayatollahs, who take quite a different view of the country's future and its relationship with the outside world." Mr. Putin should not be surprised, the paper warned further, if in 5 to 10 years' time, "a group of Islamic terrorists or separatists armed with military hardware which Moscow had just sent to Tehran" show up in Russia or on its borders.
The domestic debate over Mr. Putin's rush to capture the Iranian market for Russia's beleaguered arms and energy industries is not yet as intense as the American reaction to it -- indeed, many Russians support closer ties with Iran. But a sense of danger is growing here, based in part on the fear that Iran's moderates will once again lose power, putting Russian weapons in the hands of hard-liners who might point them at Central Asia or use them to incite Russia's Muslim population. The conflict in Chechnya has intensified this concern.
The sense of danger is also based on the fear that Russia's relations with Washington will only degenerate further as the Bush administration presses Iran over its support for terrorism and its efforts to develop long-range ballistic missiles and weapons of mass destruction.
"Russia today has a major problem of image deterioration," said Andrei V. Kozyrev, foreign minister under President Boris N. Yeltsin. "We are losing in terms of these demonizing cliches, that every Russian businessman is a thief," or that "Russia is reverting to the old Soviet style of anti-Western behavior."
He added, "This reality requires that we in government, Parliament and business should understand that we have an image problem that should be addressed and that requires a cautious approach in foreign policy." He pointed out that while Russia has no other choice but to do business with Iran, it should do so in a manner that addresses Western concerns about the spread of dangerous weapons technologies.
"I would be extremely cautious in doing any weapons business with Iran since that would put Russia on particularly thin ice," Mr. Kozyrev said.
Nonetheless, Mr. Putin's policy on Iran does have its supporters. 
"I think that Russia, the United States and the European Union have a very big stake in the future of Iran and we need many channels of communication," said Andrei A. Kokoshin, national security adviser under Mr. Yeltsin. He characterized Mr. Khatami's visit as "an opportunity for the involvement of Iran in world political affairs and world economic affairs that could provide an alternative to the policies of the conservatives in Iran."
Mr. Kokoshin said he hoped that the United States and Russia could collaborate in drawing Iran out of its isolation. He also rejected the notion that the sale of conventional Russian weapons was a significant factor in Moscow's relations with Tehran.
Even some of Moscow's most pro-Western liberals favor selling arms to Iran, up to a point.
In January, Grigory V. Yavlinsky, who heads the liberal Yabloko Party, wrote an open letter that he thought Mr. Putin should send to President Bush. 
In it, Mr. Yavlinsky said Iran represented a "very important arms market for Russia," adding: "Such trade does not threaten our security. We do not intend to make concessions on this issue. This is a very important source of revenue, and the possibility of developing technology.
"I understand that some contracts may cause significant concern in the region. That's why I propose to discuss the commercial and political aspects of this issue."
It is not known whether Mr. Putin has taken Mr. Yavlinsky's advice and conveyed these sentiments to Mr. Bush, but the Russian leader chose this week to send his closest adviser on national security affairs, Sergei B. Ivanov, to Washington. In meetings at the White House and State Department, Mr. Ivanov was expected to try to convince Mr. Bush's aides that Russia is as concerned about the potential danger from Iran as anyone. 
Mr. Ivanov likes to say that Russians live much closer to Iran than anyone in the West and therefore Moscow has no interest in assisting Iran's ballistic missile program or its secret efforts to develop nuclear weapons. He also likes to point out that the nuclear power plant that Russia is providing Iran at Bushehr on the Persian Gulf coast is almost identical to a nuclear plant that the United States and South Korea are building in North Korea. He does fail to mention, though, that Washington has hinged the deal on North Korea's agreement to abandon any attempt to develop nuclear weapons.
Iran has essentially made this commitment by signing the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. It has also given the International Atomic Energy Agency the right to supervise and inspect the Bushehr power plant. On a site abandoned by Germany in 1979, the plant is now home to 1,200 Russian engineers and technicians who are working to complete the first phase by 2004.
Washington suspects that Iran is conducting secret nuclear weapons research and remains concerned that Russian assistance at Bushehr will enhance Iran's knowledge and capacities in the nuclear weapons field.
After Mr. Ivanov left for Washington, his colleague, Igor S. Ivanov, the foreign minister, said on Wednesday that Russia would sell arms to Iran "within the limits that are required for ensuring the defensive capability of Iran and that will not hurt third countries or regional stability." And, in one of the most private meetings of the week, the Russian and Iranian defense ministers met on Wednesday to discuss "joint efforts against international terrorism and extremism and questions related to the strengthening of the nonproliferation of weapons of mass destruction, their delivery vehicles and missile technologies," according to a report by the Interfax news agency.
Meanwhile, Mr. Khatami, obviously pleased to be in the Russian limelight, took advantage of the platform his visit had afforded him to praise Mr. Putin's government for resisting other governments' "attempts to interfere with cooperation between our two countries, particularly in the peaceful use of nuclear energy."
After his speech, Mr. Khatami left Moscow for St. Petersburg, where today he inspected the nuclear reactor that will be shipped to Iran later this year. Yevgeny Sergeyev, general director of the Izhorskiye machine works said the completion date for the first reactor unit at Bushehr had been set for 2002, but has now slipped to early 2004. He did not give a reason for the delay, but announced that Mr. Khatami confirmed during the visit today that "as soon as the equipment for the first reactor leaves the factory, a contract for a second reactor will be signed."
Mr. Khatami was due to make one more stop in Russia, at Kazan, capital of the autonomous Tatarstan Republic, whose population is largely Muslim.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mohammad Khatami of Iran, center, joking with a student in the Tatarstan Republic yesterday. Mr. Khatami's stopover there followed a Moscow visit criticized by the Russian press as well as the United States. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); FUNDAMENTALISM (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (64%); RELIGION (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); IRAN (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



412 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Compaq to Cut 5,000 Jobs; Profit Forecast Is Lowered 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

DATELINE: DALLAS, March 15 

 BODY:
The Compaq Computer Corporation said today that it would cut 5,000 jobs and predicted that first-quarter earnings per share would be about one-third lower than expectations. Analysts said the announcement further underscored how long it might take the technology sector to recover from the slowdown in consumer buying and corporate capital spending.
 Compaq, a leading manufacturer of personal computers and servers, also said it would merge its commercial and consumer PC divisions and trim its marketing force. Combined with previously announced cost-cutting, the moves should save the Houston-based company $500 million to $600 million a year. 
 The cutbacks will not help first-quarter results, however, and the company now expects earnings of 12 to 14 cents a share, far lower than analysts' expectations of 18 cents a share, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. 
Revenue for the quarter will be $9 billion to $9.2 billion, a 20 percent decline from the fourth quarter and less than the $9.6 billion the company predicted just two months ago.
The company today also named Jeff Clarke, 39, as chief financial officer. Mr. Clarke, who had been vice president for finance and strategy for Compaq Sales and Services, replaces Jesse J. Greene Jr., who becomes senior vice president for strategic planning.
Michael Capellas, Compaq's chief executive, blamed the weak United States economy, sliding consumer confidence and cutbacks in industry capital spending, and he said he "remains concerned about future deterioration in global markets."
On the personal computer side, demand for desktop computers has slowed the most, but notebook demand has also weakened, company officials said. Mr. Capellas said the server business was suffering from slackening demand in sectors including telecommunications, autos and core manufacturing, as well as from very severe pricing pressure. Price-cutting, he said, is "fierce, so it's time to get aggressive."
The layoffs, which will trim 7 percent of Compaq's work force, will come from the personal computer business and from within marketing and supply-chain divisions, which include manufacturing, distribution, inventory, procurement and order controls. Mr. Capellas said the company would make most cuts within six weeks, but he declined to say where, geographically, they would mostly occur.
Dan Niles, a semiconductor and personal computer analyst with Lehman Brothers in San Francisco, said the news, while not surprising, further emphasized how long it would take technology companies to regain their footing.
"This isn't anywhere close to being over," Mr. Niles said, adding that "it definitely looks like this is going to spread" to foreign markets. "This is going to be long and painful."
Mr. Niles said the industry's severe weakness would continue through the summer, and probably through the end of the year. "I know everybody is hoping and praying that Alan Greenspan is going to save us, but it's just not going to happen," Mr. Niles said. "There are just too many structural problems right now for an interest rate cut to turn that around."
In general, Mr. Niles said he was recommending that investors steer clear of technology, but he added that the computer hardware sector, with some valuations near a five-year low, is a more appealing place than some other sectors. He also said Compaq's lowered revenue forecast was not as bad as he thought it would be. For the year, Mr. Niles now expects earnings of 55 to 65 cents a share, compared with the $1.08 analysts had been predicting before today's news, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. 
With the announcement today by Compaq following a spate of similar warnings from other companies, investors seemed to take things in stride. Shares of Compaq closed at $18.50 up 15 cents, before the profit warning. After a conference call with analysts, shares rose slightly in after-hours trading, before later settling back to $18.50. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (88%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); NETWORK SERVERS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (76%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL CAPELLAS (78%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



413 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: A Business-Dictated Bankruptcy Law 

 BODY:
Business interests generously supported Republican candidates in the last election and are now reaping the rewards. President Bush and Republican Congressional leaders have moved to rescind new Labor Department ergonomics rules aimed at fostering a safer workplace, largely because business considered them too costly. Congress is also revising bankruptcy law in a way long sought by major financial institutions that gave Republicans $26 million in the last election cycle. President Clinton wisely vetoed the proposal last year, but a nearly identical bill has passed the House and another version was approved by the Senate yesterday. President Bush fully supports the overhaul. 
 The legislation makes it harder for debtors to have their credit card and other unsecured debt erased under Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code. Instead, a rigid formula would require more debtors to file under Chapter 13 and partially repay all their debts. 
 The nation's bankruptcy laws have long reflected a delicate weighing of society's interest in giving people in distress a fresh start against the rights of creditors. Proponents of this overhaul claim it is needed to curb abuses by high-income debtors who run up big debts and then use the bankruptcy code to avoid repaying them. But the House bill allows wealthy debtors to keep their pricey homes, if owned more than two years, out of creditors' reach, so it hardly furthers that avowed goal. The Senate, to its credit, voted to set a uniform $125,000 limit on the value of a house that can be shielded. We hope this approach prevails. 
On the broader issue, there is scant evidence that bankruptcy abuse is rampant. Studies consistently show that those obtaining Chapter 7 protection are truly in dire straits. That is partly because the credit card industry frequently bombards even low-income Americans who have a checkered credit history with offers for high-interest loans. Now credit card issuers want the government to reduce all risk from their profitable business. 
The legislation will weaken an important protection available to people who fall on hard times as the economy slows. Its timing is as poor as are its merits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (96%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VETO (78%); US CHAPTER 13 BANKRUPTCY (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (77%); ERGONOMICS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); HOME PRICES (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



414 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Bush Plans State Visit to China in Fall 

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15 

 BODY:
Administration officials said today that President Bush intended to make a state visit to China in October, but the White House held off on an official announcement of the visit even though Prime Minister Zhu Rongji prematurely mentioned it in Beijing.
 Mr. Bush had already announced plans to visit Shanghai in October to attend the annual Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, and administration officials said today that he would probably stay on to meet with Chinese officials in Beijing. After Mr. Zhu's announcement, though, White House officials would say publicly today only that Mr. Bush appreciated the invitation to extend his stay but that aides were still working on the logistics. 
 Such visits are typically announced jointly, and White House officials had intended to lay the groundwork for Mr. Bush's visit and announce it next week when Deputy Prime Minister Qian Qichen will become the first official from Beijing to meet with Mr. Bush in Washington.
"The fact is that the president plans to go to Shanghai and meet up with Chinese officials after that," an administration official said. "The Chinese are just a little ahead of themselves in announcing this."
The president has so far made only one brief foreign trip as president, to Mexico. He is widely expected to add stops in Japan and South Korea to his trip to Asia. 
In Beijing, Mr. Zhu made announced a Bush visit at an annual televised news briefing before several hundred reporters gathered in the Great Hall of the People.
He said that the Chinese government did not yet know many members of the Bush administration and that what Beijing has heard from the White House had sometimes been contradictory. "It will take some time for the two sides to get to know each other," the Chinese leader said.
Mr. Zhu's remarks seemed to irritate the White House. "It's always proper to notify people who are invited to a meeting before you notify the press," said Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary. "I know that sounds novel."
At his daily news briefing, Mr. Fleischer said the White House would follow protocol, despite the announcement in Beijing.
"The president is very pleased to have received the invitation to visit China, and we are considering how we can respond at this time," Mr. Fleischer said. "And as soon as we have a formal response, of course it will be conveyed to the Chinese government, and then we will let you know shortly thereafter."
The administration's goal of deploying a missile defense system is expected to top the agenda when Mr. Qian arrives in Washington next Thursday. Chinese officials have opposed the Bush administration's plan for a missile shield, but White House officials say they are encouraged that Beijing seeks to discuss the matter.
"This will be the beginning of an opportunity to talk with them about missile defense," a senior administration official said. "Missile defense really should not be seen as a threat by anyone that doesn't intend to blackmail us."
The Chinese are also concerned about Taiwan's requests to buy advanced American weapons.
"The Chinese do have a role to play in this," the senior Bush aide said, and added, using the initials for the People's Republic of China, "If they are not appearing to threaten Taiwan, then Taiwan's needs are different than if the P.R.C. is presenting a threat to Taiwan."
Mr. Bush's visit would follow a similar trip by his predecessor. President Clinton attended a summit meeting with China in 1998. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (66%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (60%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%); EAST CHINA (93%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



415 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Senators Adopt Tougher Rules On Bankruptcy 

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15 

 BODY:
The Senate voted overwhelmingly today to overhaul the nation's bankruptcy laws and make it harder for people to erase their debts.
 The lopsided vote, 83 to 15, makes it far more likely that the federal bankruptcy code will be rewritten this year. The House has passed a similar bill, and President Bush has signaled that he will sign whatever compromise is reached by House and Senate negotiators. 
 Support for the overhaul was largely bipartisan, with 36 Democrats joining 47 Republicans in the evenly divided Senate to vote for it. President Bill Clinton vetoed similar legislation in his final weeks in office, describing it as too harsh on consumers. 
The bill's quick resurrection after Mr. Bush's inauguration was seen as evidence of the generous campaign contributions made to each party by the credit industry. It also reflected the growing power of lobbyists in a government in which the White House and Congress are run by business-friendly Republicans.
Some of the same lobbyists had a significant victory last week, when the House and Senate voted to overturn regulations intended to protect workers from repetitive-stress injuries.
For many of the more than one million Americans whose financial troubles are expected to force them into bankruptcy next year, the bill would end their ability to use the bankruptcy system to wipe out credit-card bills and other loans that are not secured by homes or other assets. 
Instead, they would be forced to pay off some or all of those debts under a court-supervised plan, even if that puts the payment of old credit-card bills in competition with the payment of current child support, alimony and other court-ordered expenditures.
The credit industry says it has been damaged by major growth in the number of personal bankruptcies, which rose to nearly 1.3 million last year from about 700,000 in 1990.
The bill's critics say that credit-card companies and other lenders are themselves largely to blame for the explosion in bankruptcy -- specifically, that their mass solicitations for high-interest credit cards and other loans have encouraged irresponsible spending that has landed borrowers in bankruptcy court.
In the debate on the Senate floor today, the bill's sponsors said it would end abuses by people who have the ability to pay some of their debts but who choose instead to erase them by filing for bankruptcy. They said that abusive debtors who entered bankruptcy had forced up the cost of borrowing for all other consumers.
"They have to raise the interest rates on all the rest of us," said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama. 
"I absolutely think this is a moral decision," Mr. Sessions said of his support for the bill, describing it as an issue of personal responsibility. "It's unhealthy to promote the idea that a person who can pay a substantial portion of his or her debts can just walk away."
Opponents said the bill would provide billions of dollars to credit-card companies and other lenders over the next decade at the expense of vulnerable debtors, many of them forced into bankruptcy because of medical bills, job loss or divorce.
Senator Paul Wellstone, a Minnesota Democrat who was the most vocal opponent of the bill on the Senate floor, said the bankruptcy system was meant to be a safety net for honest debtors.
"It's being shredded by this piece of legislation," Mr. Wellstone said. "This bill is a wish list for the credit-card industry and a nightmare for vulnerable families."
Senators approved the bill after agreeing on a voice vote to adopt a Democratic amendment that would end what is often singled out as the most flagrant abuse of the bankruptcy system: moves by high-income debtors to shift millions of dollars into the purchase of a house that can be shielded from creditors under the so-called homestead exemption.
The amendment -- which was fiercely opposed by lawmakers from Florida and Texas, where a house of any value can be exempted -- would place a $125,000 limit on the value of a home that could be shielded.
Senator Herb Kohl, the Wisconsin Democrat who sponsored the amendment, cited several instances in which high-income debtors had taken advantage of the loophole in recent years.
Among the debtors was the actor Burt Reynolds, who wrote off more than $8 million in debt through bankruptcy but was still able to hold onto his $2.5 million Florida estate, named Valhalla.
"There is no greater bankruptcy abuse than this," Senator Kohl said.
Opponents, arguing that states should retain the right to set the exemption limit, are expected to try to remove the amendment when it is considered by the House and Senate negotiators.
Today's vote came after an aggressive lobbying campaign by credit-card companies, banks and retailers. Their lobbying was supported by millions of dollars in political donations to members of Congress in the last election cycle and some of the largest corporate contributions to the Bush campaign.
Ranked by donations from its employees and their families, the MBNA Corporation of Delaware, was the biggest corporate donor to Mr. Bush's campaign. The company describes itself as the largest independent credit-card issuer in the world and the chairman of its bank unit was one of Mr. Bush's biggest fund-raisers.
Although its critics have all but conceded that some version of the bankruptcy bill will become law, the legislation still faces hurdles in a House-Senate conference committee.
Republicans are expected to try to strip the compromise bill of at least two amendments inserted in the Senate version by Democrats: the $125,000 limit on home equity that can be shielded from creditors and a provision that would force people involved in violence against abortion clinics to pay legal judgments resulting from the violence, even if they file for bankruptcy.
The White House has said that President Bush opposes the $125,000 limit. But his spokesman, Ari Fleischer, did not suggest that the provision threatened the president's support for the overall bill.
"We're going to continue to work with leaders on the hill," Mr. Fleischer said. "The president is looking forward to the presentation of a bill that he can sign."
Republican supporters of the legislation made clear on the floor of the Senate that they were stung by accusations that their votes were swayed by large political donations. 
"There are a lot of trade associations that are interested in getting this bill passed -- I'm not oblivious to that," said Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who helped write the bill. "But where did I first hear about abuses of the bankruptcy laws? It was from the small business people of Main Street U.S.A."
Senators also voted today, 79 to 18, to remove language from the bill that could have blocked Lloyd's of London, the British insurance company, from pursuing millions of dollars it says it is owed by a group of American investors.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Robert G. Torricelli, right, Democrat of New Jersey, conferred yesterday with Harold M. Ickes, a former Clinton deputy chief of staff, between Senate votes on amendments to a bankruptcy reform bill. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (91%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); CREDIT CARDS (88%); VETO (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (71%); SPOUSAL SUPPORT (71%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



416 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Detroit May Face Pressure To Reduce Carbon Dioxide 

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 15 

 BODY:
President Bush's decision this week not to regulate carbon dioxide emissions by electric utilities is a mixed blessing for automakers, which oppose any regulation of such emissions.
 Automakers have been increasingly alarmed by public attention to carbon dioxide, a gas linked to global warming. Whether carbon dioxide emissions from electric utilities should be regulated has implications for a far more politically acrimonious issue: federal fuel-economy regulations for new automobiles. 
 Automobile engines produce almost 20 pounds of carbon dioxide for each gallon of gasoline they burn. The catalytic converters in cars slightly increase these emissions, by turning dangerous carbon monoxide in engine exhaust into yet more carbon dioxide.
In deciding not to regulate electric utilities' emissions, President Bush questioned the scientific research that has tied man-made carbon dioxide emissions to global warming. Automakers have also questioned the research.
But having told electric utilities that their carbon dioxide emissions will not be regulated, the administration will find itself under even more pressure from environmentalists to reduce such emissions from automobiles to address global warming concerns, said Dan Becker, the energy policy director at the Sierra Club.
Josephine Cooper, the president of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, a Washington-based trade group, said that the auto industry had been watching the electric utilities' issue closely but had not weighed in. "Clearly, it is an issue that resonates with our members," she said, adding that the automakers did not support any increase in the gas mileage requirements currently set by federal law.
Each automaker is required to produce cars that get an average of 27.5 miles a gallon. Light trucks -- sport utility vehicles, minivans and pickups -- must get an average of 20.7 miles a gallon. Overall fuel efficiency has been declining as manufacturers produce more light trucks instead of cars. 
When gasoline prices soared last spring, there was a push for more stringent light truck standards by Democratic and Republican senators from Western states where people drive long distances. In a compromise, the National Academy of Sciences was asked to produce a report, due on July 1.
Officials at General Motors, Ford Motor and DaimlerChrysler said this week that they had not lobbied on the electric utilities issue. But environmentalists contend that the auto industry did not need to explain its views to top administration officials, some of whom are veterans of the auto and oil industry's battles against fuel-economy regulations over the last quarter of a century.
Spencer Abraham, the energy secretary, and Vice President Dick Cheney helped persuade President Bush to retreat on Tuesday from a campaign pledge to limit electric utilities' carbon dioxide emissions. Mr. Abraham spent the last six years as a Republican senator from Michigan and opposed global warming initiatives while leading successful efforts to freeze fuel-economy regulations. Mr. Cheney was the chief executive until last year of the Halliburton Company, an oil drilling company.
As president of the American Automobile Manufacturers Association, and then as G.M.'s top lobbyist until last autumn, Andrew H. Card Jr., now the White House chief of staff, fought Clinton administration initiatives on global warming.
Ms. Cooper said that she had not tried to lobby Mr. Card because of his previous ties to the auto industry. "I've tried to maintain decorum and distance from Andy," she said.
Transportation-related carbon dioxide emissions increased at a faster rate from 1997 to 1999 than any other large category of emissions, according to the Energy Department. But electric utilities still emit twice as much carbon dioxide as automobiles. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (95%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (93%); AUTOMAKERS (93%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CARBON MONOXIDE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (64%); OIL EXTRACTION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (84%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (55%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (84%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); DICK CHENEY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



417 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Of Coal and Climates 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
President Bush's reversal this week on a pledge to cut power plant emissions highlights the difficulty of controlling carbon dioxide, a seemingly benign ingredient of the air people exhale, but also, many scientists say, a chief cause of global warming. 
 A growing body of research has concluded that carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping greenhouse gases appear responsible for at least half of a warming trend over the last 50 years and pose a threat to ecosystems, water supplies, coastlines and tropical agriculture in the new century. 
 Advocates on each side of the issue point to a long, varied list of factors that have stalled efforts to control carbon dioxide in the United States and worldwide.
These vary from the political influence of industries and energy companies that have plants that release the gas to the lack of any clear and present harm from the increase in carbon dioxide that has already occurred: a 25 percent gain since the late 1800's, almost all of it from smokestacks and tailpipes. 
But the chief sticking point is simply that carbon dioxide -- unlike more familiar forms of pollution, which can be filtered -- is for the moment an unavoidable byproduct of burning fuels, particularly fossil fuels, and especially the biggest source, coal. 
That means, as Mr. Bush stated this week in reversing his campaign promise, almost any effort to cut emissions must curtail the use of coal, which now supplies 56 percent of the country's electricity. And that means it would cost a lot of money. 
The cost is important not only to the domestic debate over the need for a law cleaning up power plants, but also to negotiations over the Kyoto Protocol, a 1997 treaty that would, if ratified, commit 38 industrialized countries to reduce greenhouse emissions. Each country, in calculating the merits of reductions, has a different estimate of how it would affect the economy. 
Those dependent on coal -- the United States, for example -- see mainly economic peril in a binding treaty. Those that generate most of their electricity with carbonless nuclear power -- France, for example -- are less likely to resist.
But the cost is only one side of the calculus that leads either to action or inaction to blunt climate change, environmental experts say.
The other is weighing risk: risk to health, ecosystems, agriculture and the like. Countries or communities generally have to perceive some definable threat on a clear timetable to be prompted to act to repel the threat or at least to invest in an insurance policy. 
In the past, pollution problems were almost always attacked only after those two conditions were satisfied. Lead was removed from gasoline because levels in blood were high. As unleaded gasoline became the norm, lead levels in blood sharply dropped. 
Other air pollutants -- like soot, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides -- leave discernible fingerprints: grimy windows, sterilized mountain lakes downwind from power plants or eye-burning clouds of smog.
In contrast, carbon dioxide, as opponents of cuts like to point out, is harder to cast as a villain. In fact, the skeptics say, no clear evidence exists that a crime has been committed. 
The gas is, after all, the substance that plants transform through photosynthesis into corn, pansies and rosewood.
Finally, in instances where scientists say they have measured its effects, they are always secondary, indirect, and often far, far away from where most of the earth's human population is located. 
The most recent findings have come from melting mountain glaciers and satellites monitoring an increase in the amount of heat trapped in the upper atmosphere as greenhouse gases build. 
These are hardly the kinds of effects that are quick to generate a call for new laws or global treaties that could raise energy costs. 
A lack of urgency and a focus on costs both contributed to the breakdown of talks on the Kyoto in The Hague last November. The shift this week by Mr. Bush has, according to a variety of battle-worn veterans of the climate wars, threatened prospects for the next round of treaty talks, which are scheduled to take place in Bonn in July.
The White House action left opponents of controls on carbon dioxide doing the e-mail equivalent of high-fives. On Tuesday night, the Cooler Heads Coalition, an informal network of groups opposing cuts in greenhouse gases, sent an urgent Internet alert from its chairman, Myron Ebell. "We have won a famous victory, and everyone should congratulate themselves," he wrote.
Still, some supporters of controlling carbon dioxide say they are confident that momentum will eventually swing their way, though perhaps slower than they would like. 
Sherwood L. Boehlert, a moderate Republican congressman who was first elected to represent Utica, N.Y., in 1982, said it took eight years of fighting for acid rain controls to be added to the Clean Air Act in 1990. Power plant emissions of the offending compounds, nitrogen oxides, have dropped but remain too high, Mr. Boehlert said.
"And I still have some colleagues in the House telling me it's a figment of my imagination," he said.
The same timetable is likely to hold true for actions to curtail global warming, said Mr. Boehlert, one of a small but growing minority of Republican officials seeking limits on carbon dioxide along with other air kinds of air pollution.
Yesterday, undeterred by Mr. Bush's decision and a near certain prospect of failure, Mr. Boehlert and a bipartisan group of colleagues introduced House and Senate bills calling for exactly what the president rejected -- adding carbon dioxide to the list of power plant emissions to be cut. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NITROGEN OXIDES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); AIR POLLUTANTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); GASOLINE (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); WEATHER (72%); LEAD (71%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (68%); LEAD POISONING (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2001 



418 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2411 words

HEADLINE: Poles and the Jews: How Deep the Guilt? 

BYLINE:  By ADAM MICHNIK 

 BODY:
On July 10, 1941, 1,600 Jews, nearly the entire Jewish population of the Polish village of Jedwabne, were murdered by their Polish neighbors. Some were hunted down and killed with clubs, axes and knives; most were herded into a barn and then burned alive. Although the slaughter was not a secret, publicly the Nazi occupiers were blamed. A monument in Jedwabne (pronounced yed-VAHB-nay) declared: "Place of martyrdom of the Jewish people. Hitler's Gestapo and gendarmerie burned 1,600 people alive, July 10, 1941." But last May, Jan T. Gross, a historian at New York University, published "Neighbors: The Destruction of the Jewish Community in Jedwabne" in Poland. The book, which will be issued in the United States in April, documents the massacre by Polish villagers in gruesome detail. In a country whose people think of themselves as wartime victims, not villains, it set off a storm of debate in corner shops, cafes and classrooms, and among the country's political and church leaders. Some Poles have continued to deny Polish responsibility; most have tried to wrestle with the country's history of anti-Semitism and questions of collective guilt. Jozef Cardinal Glemp, the Roman Catholic Primate, and President Aleksander Kwasniewski have publicly asked for forgiveness, and on Thursday the Jedwabne memorial was removed. Adam Michnik is a dissident and historian who spent six years in prison under the postwar Communist regime, served as an adviser to the Solidarity leader Lech Walesa and is now editor-in-chief of Gazeta Wyborcza, Poland's largest daily newspaper. 
He wrote this article for The New York Times, and it was translated from the Polish by Ewa Zadrzynska.
 Do Poles, along with Germans, bear guilt for the Holocaust? It is hard to imagine a more absurd claim. 
 Not a single Polish family was spared by Hitler and Stalin. The two totalitarian dictatorships obliterated three million Poles and three million Polish citizens classified as Jews by the Nazis.
Poland was the first country to oppose Hitler's demands and the first to stand against his aggression. Poland never had a Quisling. No Polish regiment fought on behalf of the Third Reich. Betrayed by the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact, Poles fought alongside the anti-Nazi forces from the first day until the last. And inside Poland armed resistance to the German occupation was widespread.
The British prime minister paid homage to the Poles for their role in the Battle of Britain and the president of the United States called Poles an "inspiration" to the world. Yet that didn't stop them from delivering Poland into Stalin's clutches at Yalta. Heroes of the Polish resistance -- enemies of Stalin's Communism -- ended up in Soviet gulags and Polish Communist prisons.
All of these truths contribute to Poland's image of itself as an innocent and noble victim of foreign violence and intrigue. After the war, while the West was able to reflect on what had happened, Stalinist terror stymied public discussion in Poland about the war, the Holocaust and anti-Semitism.
At the same time, anti-Semitic traditions were deeply rooted in Poland. In the 19th century, when the Polish state didn't exist, the modern nation that was to emerge was shaped by ethnic and religious ties and by opposing antagonistic neighbors often hostile to the dream of Polish independence. Anti-Semitism was the ideological glue of great political nationalistic formations. And yet it was also used at various points as a tool by Russian occupiers in accordance with the principle "divide et impera."
In the 1920's and 30's, anti-Semitism took hold. It became a fixture of radical right-wing nationalists and it could be detected in the utterances of the hierarchy of the Catholic church. Though historically Poland had been a relatively safe haven for them, Jews began to feel increasingly discriminated against and unsafe -- and they were, with noisy anti-Semitic groups, segregated seating at universities and calls for pogroms.
During Hitler's occupation, the Polish nationalistic and anti-Semitic right didn't collaborate with the Nazis, as the right wing did elsewhere in Europe, but actively participated in the anti-Hitler undergound. Polish anti-Semites fought against Hitler, and some of them even rescued Jews, though this was punishable by death.
Thus we have a singularly Polish paradox: on occupied Polish soil, a person could be an anti-Semite, a hero of the resistance and a savior of Jews.
Fourteen years ago an essay recalled a well-known appeal to save the Jews that was published by a famous Catholic writer, Zofia Kossak-Szczucka, in August 1942. She wrote of hundreds of thousands of Jews in the Warsaw ghetto awaiting death without hope of rescue and how the entire world -- England, America, Jews overseas and Poles -- was silent. "The dying Jews are surrounded by Pilates washing their hands," she wrote. "This silence cannot be tolerated any longer. No matter what the reasons for it, this silence is a disgrace." 
Speaking of Catholic Poles, she continued: "Our feelings toward the Jews haven't changed. We still consider them the political, economic and ideological enemies of Poland. Furthermore, we are aware that they hate us even more than they hate the Germans, that they hold us responsible for their misfortune. . . . The knowledge of these feelings doesn't relieve us of the duty of condemning the crime. We don't want to be Pilates. We have no chance to act against the German crimes, we can't help or save anybody, but we protest from the depths of our hearts, filled with compassion, indignation and awe. . . . The compulsory participation of the Polish nation in this bloody show, which is taking place on Polish soil, can breed indifference to the wrongs, the sadism and above all the sinister conviction that one can kill one's neighbors and go unpunished."
This extraordinary appeal, full of idealism and courage while openly poisoned by anti-Semitic stereotypes, illustrates the paradox of Polish attitudes toward the dying Jews. The anti-Semitic tradition compels the Poles to perceive the Jews as aliens while the Polish heroic tradition compels them to save them. 
The same Kossak-Szczucka, in a letter to a friend after the war, described a wartime incident on a Warsaw bridge: "Another time, on the Kierbedz bridge, a German saw a Pole giving alms to a starving Jewish urchin. He pounced and ordered the Pole to throw the child into the river or else he would be shot along with the young beggar. 'There is nothing you can to do help him. I will kill him anyway; he is not allowed to be here. You can go free, if you drown him, or I will kill you, too. Drown him or die. I will count . . . 1, 2 --'
"The Pole could not take it. He broke down and threw the child over the rail into the river. The German gave him a pat on the shoulder. 'Braver Kerl.' They went their separate ways. Two days later, the Pole hanged himself."
The lives of those Poles who felt the guilt of being helpless witnesses to atrocity were marked by a deep trauma, which surfaces with each new debate about anti-Semitism, Polish-Jewish relations and the Holocaust. After all, people in Poland know deep inside that they were the ones who moved into the houses vacated by Jews herded into the ghetto. And there were other reasons for guilt. There were some Poles who turned Jews in and others who hid Jews for money.
Polish public opinion is rarely united, but almost all Poles react very sharply when confronted with the charge that Poles get their anti-Semitism with their mothers' milk and with accusations of their complicity in the Shoah. For the anti-Semites, who are plentiful on the margins of Poland's political life, those attacks are proof of the international anti-Polish Jewish conspiracy. To normal people who came of age in the years of falsifications and silence about the Holocaust, these allegations seem unjust.
To these people, Jan Tomasz Gross's book "Neighbors," which revealed the story of the murder by Poles of 1,600 Jews in Jedwabne, was a terrible shock. It is difficult to describe the extent of this shock. Mr. Gross's book has generated a heated response comparable to the Jewish community's reaction to the publication of Hannah Arendt's "Eichmann in Jerusalem." Arendt wrote about the collaboration of some of the Jewish communities with the Nazis: "The Jewish Councils of Elders were informed by Eichmann or his men of how many Jews were needed to fill each train, and they made out the list of deportees. The Jews registered, filled out innumerable forms, answered pages and pages of questionnaires regarding their property so that it could be seized the more easily; they then assembled at the collection points and boarded the trains. The few who tried to hide or to escape were rounded up by a special Jewish police force. . . . We know how the Jewish officials felt when they became instruments of murder -- like captains 'whose ships were about to sink and who succeeded in bringing them safe to port by casting overboard a great part of their precious cargo.' " Soon afterward, her Jewish critics said that Hannah Arendt claimed that Jews themselves implemented their Shoah.
Some of the reactions to the book by Mr. Gross were as emotional. An average Polish reader couldn't believe that something like this could have happened. I must admit that I couldn't believe it either, and I thought that my friend Jan Gross had fallen victim to a a falsification. But the murder in Jedwabne, preceded by a bestial pogrom, did take place and must weigh on the collective consciousness of the Poles -- and on my individual consciousness.
The Polish debate about Jedwabne has been going on for several months. It is a serious debate, full of sadness and sometimes terror -- as if the whole society was suddenly forced to carry the weight of this terrible 60-year-old crime; as if all Poles were made to admit their guilt collectively and ask for forgiveness.
I don't believe in collective guilt or collective responsibility or any other responsibility except the moral one. And therefore I ponder what exactly is my individual responsibility and my own guilt. Certainly I cannot be responsible for that crowd of murderers who set the barn in Jedwabne on fire. Similarly, today's citizens of Jedwabne cannot be blamed for that crime. When I hear a call to admit my Polish guilt, I feel hurt the same way the citizens of today's Jedwabne feel when they are interrogated by reporters from around the world. 
But when I hear that Mr. Gross's book, which revealed the truth about the crime, is a lie that was concocted by the international Jewish conspiracy against Poland, that is when I feel guilty. Because these false excuses are in fact nothing else but a rationalization of that crime. 
As I write this text, I am weighing words carefully and repeating Montesquieu: "I am a man thanks to nature, I am a Frenchman thanks to coincidence." By coincidence I am a Pole with Jewish roots. Almost my whole family was devoured by the Holocaust. My relatives could have perished in Jebwabne. Some of them were Communists or relatives of Communists, some were craftsmen, some merchants, perhaps some rabbis. But all were Jews, according to the Nuremberg laws of the Third Reich. All of them could have been herded into that barn, which was set on fire by Polish criminals.
I do not feel guilty for those murdered, but I do feel responsible. Not that they were murdered -- I could not have stopped that. I feel guilty that after they died they were murdered again, denied a decent burial, denied tears, denied truth about this hideous crime, and that for decades a lie was repeated.
This is my fault. For lack of imagination or time, for convenience and spiritual laziness, I did not ask myself certain questions and did not look for answers. Why? After all, I was among those who actively pushed to reveal the truth about the Katyn massacre of Polish soldiers, I worked to tell the truth about the Stalinist trials in Poland, about the victims of the Communist repression. Why then did I not look for the truth about the murdered Jews of Jedwabne? Perhaps because I subconsciously feared the cruel truth about the Jewish fate during that time. After all, the bestial mob in Jedwabne was not unique. In all of the countries conquered by the Soviets after 1939, there were horrible acts of terror against the Jews in the summer and in the autumn of 1941. They died at the hands of their Lithuanian, Latvian, Estonian, Ukrainian, Russian and Belarussian neighbors. I think that the time has come to reveal the truth about these hideous acts. I will try to contribute to this. 
Writing these words, I feel a specific schizophrenia: I am a Pole, and my shame about the Jedwabne's murder is a Polish shame. At the same time, I know that if I had been there in Jedwabne, I would have been killed as a Jew. 
Who then am I, as I write these words? Thanks to nature, I am a man, and I am responsible to other people for what I do and what I do not do. Thanks to my choice, I am a Pole, and I am responsible to the world for the evil inflicted by my countrymen. I do so out of my free will, by my own choice, and by the deep urging of my conscience.
But I am also a Jew who feels a deep brotherhood with those who were murdered as Jews. From this perspective, I assert that whoever tries to remove the crime in Jedwabne from the context of its epoch, whoever uses this example to generalize that this is how only the Poles and all the Poles behaved, is lying. And this lie is as repulsive as the lie that was told for many years about the crime in Jedwabne.
A Polish neighbor might have saved one of my relatives from the hands of the executioners who pushed him into the barn. And indeed, there were many such Polish neighbors -- the forest of Polish trees in the Avenue of the Righteous in Yad Vashem, the Holocaust memorial in Jerusalem, is dense. 
For these people who lost their lives saving Jews, I feel responsible, too. I feel guilty when I read so often in Polish and foreign newspapers about the murderers who killed Jews, and note the deep silence about those who rescued Jews. Do the murderers deserve more recognition than the righteous? 
The Polish primate, the Polish president and the Rabbi of Warsaw said almost in one voice that a tribute to the Jedwabne victims should serve the cause of reconciling Poles and Jews in the truth. I desire nothing more. If it doesn't happen, it will be also my fault.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A monument at Jedwabne, Poland, that blamed Nazi occupiers for a massacre of local Jews. It was removed on Thursday after public acknowledgment that Poles committed the murders. (Associated Press)(pg. B7); Jan T. Gross, who exposed Polish responsibility for the massacre of Jews at Jedwabne. (Associated Press)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (94%); RELIGION (92%); HISTORY (90%); MURDER (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (87%); HOLOCAUST (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); BURN INJURIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); GENDARMERIE (70%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%) NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: MICHNIK, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) POLAND

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



419 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1784 words

HEADLINE: What They Knew (Not!): 44 Years of C.I.A. Secrets 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN KOTKIN; Stephen Kotkin, the director of Russian studies at Princeton, is the author of "Armageddon Averted: The Soviet Collapse, 1970-2000," to be published this fall.

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J., March 16 

 BODY:
The wood-paneled auditorium, filled with more than 175 gray-haired men in gray suits, was buzzing. The men, mostly retired C.I.A. analysts and some current ones, were not known for their garrulousness, but many couldn't contain themselves. "This is all too much," said an otherwise sober-minded analyst. "I'm sorry. I just -- I can't stop talking. This is great!"
 They had gathered at Princeton University last week along with 70-some professors, students and dabblers in espionage for a two-day conference devoted to the agency's analysis of the Soviet Union from 1947 to 1991. 
 Did the Central Intelligence Agency, as former New York Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan has often charged, greatly overestimate Soviet capabilities -- causing the United States to spend far too much on its military -- and then hide its erroneous views in an undemocratic "culture of secrecy"? Or was the agency's record "pretty good," as suggested by Lloyd Salvetti, director of the Center for the Study of Intelligence, who distributed CD-ROM's holding 19,000 pages of recently declassified documents at this public conference? 
Even with the release of such documents, the questions are not easily answered, since only the agency knows what remains classified. But that is what made the Princeton conference, at the initiative of the agency, so extraordinary. Here was a chance to hear the front-line analysts candidly explaining and criticizing their work.
And beyond the insider's look at the agency was the look at the insiders. They attended schools like Princeton, Yale and Harvard, the favorite recruiting grounds, colleges that were closed to women until the 1970's. Preferring to go by their first names, Howie and Winston, Smitty and Dick, they referred to their analyses as "product" and to government officials as their "customers."
For these highly professional and dedicated men, the Soviet world, at a certain remove, was an integral part of their lives. Having toiled in utter seclusion for decades, received medals in private ceremonies and followed orders not to disclose what they knew, these desk veterans were allowed in from the cold.
Ray said he had briefed Richard M. Nixon for the "kitchen debate" with Nikita S. Khrushchev. Bill rose to say he had predicted the outbreak of the Korean War, but that his later attempt to get his own paper using the Freedom of Information Act came up empty. Eight seats over, Herb leaped up to announce that he had handled the request and apologized that the document could not be located.
They had written secret multivolume encyclopedias on things from the consistency of Soviet rope to the friction in Chinese-Soviet relations. And now they reminisced about careers in cold war puzzle solving. Like a mysterious 880-foot-long building in the Soviet Union. Was it a chicken farm or a state-of-the-art radar facility? It was radar, in fact, part of the Soviet early warning system. How did the agency figure that out? First they identified the structure from photos taken from a U-2 spy plane, then a new tool. Next they maneuvered their own giant radar dish on Chesapeake Bay to pick up radiation emitted from the "chicken farm" that analysts surmised could be caught bouncing off the moon.
Such ingenuity enabled the agency to grasp the extent and limits of the Soviet military in the 1950's without artificial satellites. The agency had correctly reported that the Soviet Union was not likely to launch a war in Europe the way the Japanese had at Pearl Harbor. Mr. Salvetti, the conference organizer, seemed vindicated.
But so, in absentia, did Senator Moynihan. Raymond Garthoff, a longtime C.I.A. military analyst, admitted that "there were consistent overestimates of the threat every year from 1978 to 1985." Douglas MacEachin, a 32-year veteran and former deputy director, agreed, saying: "The biggest single trap for intelligence estimates was Soviet intentions. We 'knew' what their intentions were before they did." He added, "We joked, 'Let's cable Moscow with the news.' "
Mr. MacEachin said that the agency did not fully realize how the Soviet military industrial complex drove its own institutional growth, which took on a life of its own without a conscious political strategy. He said the agency also missed the extent to which Leonid I. Brezhnev's military buildup from the late 60's to the early 80's was based on Soviet perceptions of American military strength. And the agency overestimated the accuracy of Soviet missiles. That, too, derived from a tendency to interpret Soviet realities through American eyes.
But where else could government officials, the "customers," turn? Jack F. Matlock Jr., a former envoy to the Soviet Union for the Reagan and George Bush administrations, summed up his appreciation for the C.I.A. by noting that everyone ignored Pentagon intelligence on the Soviet Union because "it would never include anything that might threaten to reduce the Pentagon budget."
Indeed, independent analysis of the Soviet arsenal was indispensable. The agency's best-guess inventories proved that weapons agreements could be "verified." Without them, arms control would not have been possible.
The contribution was still deeper. Even when wrong, the precision offered in agency intelligence estimates eventually cast a calming spell. Knowing in detail how the Soviet Union could destroy the world a thousand times over, paradoxically, helped reduce the hysterical levels of paranoia in the nuclear age. "We understood the plumbing of the Soviet armed forces," boomed Fritz W. Ermarth, another retired agency veteran, "so we did not overreact in periods of tension."
Elsewhere in the agency, Soviet statistical manuals (when they were available) were subjected to econometric analysis, and satellite imagery was used to measure floor space in factories and deduce production capacities. Quickly it became clear that the Soviet Union would not overtake the United States, but a debate ensued about the size of its economy: was it 30 percent or 60 percent of the American economy? And what was its growth rate?
One trip to a Soviet manufacturing plant would have provided some ready answers, but even though travel to the Soviet Union became possible in 1957, agency desk analysts for the most part were not sent to do fieldwork. Analysts who did travel to Moscow much later, and who had assumed that Soviet goods were probably similar to the lowest-end items in the Sears, Roebuck catalog, reported having been shocked by their shoddiness.
Decrepit, inefficient factories, however, were worth quite a bit inside the Soviet Union, since their output was often a monopoly and they also provided housing, nurseries and secure jobs, not to mention urban power grids and mass transit systems. Considered in world market terms, however, those same factories were often destroyers of wealth: their output was valued at less than the cost of their inputs.
Puzzling over the worth of an economy without market prices or a real currency, agency economists, at policymakers' request, estimated the Soviet gross national product in dollars. But that willy-nilly rendered it as part of the global economy even though it wasn't. Here was the crucial question, and it did not involve growth rates or size estimates but politics: How long could the Soviet Union wall itself off from the rest of the world's economy? The answer began to emerge in the 1970's, when oil exports and grain imports increasingly entangled the Soviets in the world market. And that world market's valuation of the Soviet economy proved devastating, as Russia in the 1990's showed.
James Millar, an academic economist and agency consultant, noted that the C.I.A. did get Soviet trends right (i.e., downward) and had caught the onset of declining growth under Brezhnev. "But C.I.A. did not have the courage of its convictions," he concluded, adding, "We underestimated the costs of haste in industrialization, of autarky, empire, excessive standardization and the suppression of economists."
Did the agency do better than the Sovietologists at universities? "No, they did about the same," Mr. Millar said. Should the agency have done better, given its big budget and access to wider information? He shrugged his shoulders. Later Richard Kerr, a 32-year agency veteran and deputy director in 1989-92, finished the thought, calling the agency "a W.P.A. project for economists."
Predictably, both the analysts and the organization as a whole found it difficult to relinquish views in which they were deeply invested. The economist Paul Samuelson, noted Steven Rosen, director of the Olin Center for Strategic Studies at Harvard, liked to say, "We make progress in economic theory one academic funeral at a time." Mr. Ermarth pointed out that they didn't understand that the Soviets couldn't translate their military might into political and diplomatic leverage. Worse, an agency paper on "the domestic stress on the Soviet system," he said, was produced only in the fall of 1985, "embarrassingly late." Another paper bore the title, "Moscow's troubles with empire -- so what?"
One could go further and argue that the C.I.A. underestimated the crushing effect on the Soviet Union of America's social welfare programs (which blunted the Communist critique of capitalism), expanding home ownership, and export of mass culture, and the example exerted by an open and democratic society. It was a combination of weapons for which the Soviet Union had no answer.
After the stunning Soviet breakup, John McLaughlin, the current deputy director of the agency, said, "We still had a Soviet canned goods specialist and a Soviet timber specialist." Soon, however, such analysts "found themselves studying Uzbek language or Ukrainian politics."
Gone is the problem of gathering information about a closed society, Mr. McLaughlin said. He described an analyst starting her day now by profitably examining 20 Russian Web sites, the same ones available on any computer. But the agency's task has not been made easier, for the "clarity of the old paradigm" is gone, he said.
The picture that emerged over two days was of thousands of analysts, bounded by their consciences but also their worldviews, producing a vast body of intelligence. Some of it was indispensable; and some, within limits, offered divergent views. But how much of this colossal effort affected or even reached policymakers?
James R. Schlesinger, a former director and secretary of defense, observed that policymakers "like to have their views confirmed," so "they pick out of our intelligence the points that confirm their views." How often directors of central intelligence, who funnel information to the president, did the same, was left unsaid.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nostalgia for the verities of the old world order: The conference poster for a meeting of retired and current C.I.A. analysts, professors and students at Princeton University. (pg. B7); The C.I.A. was able to grasp the extent and limits of Soviet power in the 1950's, but analysts admit that it made a string of overestimates from 1978 to 1985. (Top, Sovfoto/Eastfoto; bottom, United Press International)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); COLD WAR (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (72%); KOREAN WAR (68%) ESPIONAGE 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY; PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (50%) KOTKIN, STEPHEN

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIA; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



420 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Weak Output and Price Data Seen as Pointing to a Rate Cut 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16 

 BODY:
Prices paid to manufacturers, farmers and other producers rose a modest 0.1 percent in February, while industrial production slumped in the month, new reports showed today, suggesting that the Federal Reserve has leeway to cut interest rates deeper and quicker. 
 But a survey on consumer sentiment showed an unexpected swing in optimism, confounding some investors. Another piece of data that indicated some strength in the economy was the February report on housing starts, which fell slightly but stayed at a robust level. Still, today's overall economic picture "certainly increases the chances" that Fed policy makers will cut interest rates by three-quarters of a point when they meet on Tuesday, said Cary Leahey, senior economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York. 
 The gain in the Producer Price Index followed a 1.1 percent jump in January that surprised investors and was the biggest since October 1999. February's core index, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, fell 0.3 percent after rising 0.7 percent in January, the Labor Department said. Last month the decline in the core index, the largest since August 1993, was led by lower prices for autos, computers and paper.
Energy prices rose 1.4 percent in February, after rising 3.8 percent in January, led by a 19 percent surge in the cost of liquefied petroleum gas.
Production at factories, utilities and mines fell 0.6 percent in February, twice the drop expected by economists, after a similar decline in January. It was the fifth consecutive monthly decline, the longest such string since a six-month slump from October 1990 to March 1991, the heart of the last recession.
Manufacturing has suffered the most from the economic slowdown. Factories reported production fell 0.4 percent last month after a 0.6 percent drop in January, the Fed reported today.
A study by the University of Michigan found that consumers were more upbeat about their finances and economic prospects this month than they were in February. The university said its preliminary index of consumer sentiment for March rose to 91.8, compared with a final reading of 90.6 in February, people with access to the study said. Analysts had expected the index to fall to 89.5 The index, set in 1966, has a base of 100. Increases or decreases from that level indicate Americans' degree of comfort with their finances and the state of the economy.
The university's preliminary index of current economic conditions was 104.1 in March, down from a final reading of 105.8 in February. The preliminary index of expectations was 84.0 in March, compared with 80.8 in February, and 86.4 in January. The university's survey, however, was largely completed before this week's steep slide in the stock market. The Commerce Department's housing report showed that construction of new homes decreased 0.4 percent -- the first decline since October -- to an annual rate of 1.647 million units in February from a pace of 1.653 million in January. The annual pace of construction in February was close to the 1.593 million units built last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); MINING OUTPUT (78%); RECESSION (78%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX; CREDIT; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



421 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 890 words

PERSON: Joe Carollo 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Mayor Puts His Troubles, but Not Politics, Behind Him

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY 

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
MAYOR JOE CAROLLO says he has given up on one love of his life but won't let go of another.
 The mayor, caught up in a messy divorce, said he had finally accepted that his marriage was over. But his love affair with the city endures, Mr. Carollo said. So last week, reversing an earlier decision, he announced that he would seek a third term. 
 "I lost my main love, but I won't lose my other love, the love for the City of Miami," he said in a recent interview at City Hall.
His decision came after he said in November that he would not run, and just weeks after he was arrested in a domestic dispute that he and his estranged wife, Maria Ledon Carollo, now say was a private misunderstanding. 
Local political insiders have said they never truly believed he would not run again. 
The mayor, a Republican, insists that he would have been willing to leave City Hall to save his marriage, but he said there was simply too much work to be done for him to step aside now. He ticked off a list of his accomplishments, noting that crime in the city is the lowest it has been in years, construction of hotels and office buildings is brisk, and the local economy remains healthy. 
Just how much the mayor can take credit for depends on whom you ask, since his job is largely symbolic. The Miami-Dade County mayor and the city manager hold much of the executive power in and around Miami.
In a third term, the mayor says, he wants to create a world trade center to capitalize on Miami's ties to Latin America and to transform Miami into an Internet capital for the region.
"Going forward, what I want to be able to accomplish in my next term is where I truly believe Miami's future lies, that is in international trade and commerce," Mr. Carollo said.
But those goals, ambitious to be sure, have been on his to-do list since he was first elected, in 1996, to fill the term of a mayor who died of cancer. Mr. Carollo's election to a second term, in 1998, was packed with controversy and suspense. Mr. Carollo, 45, who came to the United States from Cuba when he was 6, was returned to office only after a state appeals court overturned the election of his opponent, former Mayor Xavier Suarez, ruling that the victory resulted from widespread voting fraud.
Mr. Carollo acknowledges that his tenure has been marked by contention, some of his own making, some inherited. So he has come to expect nothing less from the city that has lived through everything from Elian Gonzalez to hanging chads.
Joseph Carollo, a rough-and-tumble veteran of Miami politics, knows how swiftly the political winds can change here. He became Miami's youngest city commissioner at 24 but in 1987 failed to win re-election.
As mayor, he is beloved in the Cuban community, in part for the hard line he took in support of the efforts of Elian's Miami relatives to keep the young ship-sinking survivor in the United States. But he has at times had a strained relationship with black voters, who have complained that he cares only about Cuban-American issues. He has also had a testy relationship with the Miami Police Department since the Elian episode. The police accused Mr. Carollo of having forced the resignation of a popular police chief because, under federal orders, the chief did not give him advance notice of the planned raid to remove the boy from the relatives' home.
The latest episode in Mr. Carollo's rocky tenure came last month, when he was arrested at his Coconut Grove home after the police received an early morning 911 call from one of the Carollos' two young daughters, who said her father was hitting her mother.
The police said at the time that Mr. Carollo had hit his wife in the head with a terra-cotta tea canister, which they later said was a cardboard box. The mayor, who faces a misdemeanor battery charge in the incident, said that it had been accidental and that he had never struck his wife. Mrs. Carollo, 42, held a news conference on Wednesday in which she said her husband had not struck her and that she had lunged at him and ordered her daughter to call the police.
His domestic troubles notwithstanding, the mayor said that the city was on the right track and that he was ready to take on anyone seeking to unseat him.
Back when many regarded Miami as a joke of a city (much further back than November), few people were willing to roll up their sleeves to deal with budget deficits and the murders of foreign vacationers, as he was in the mid-1990's, the mayor said. "And now that I have left the city in great shape," he said, "where we have a healthy surplus in Miami and the city is on the way up, now they want to be mayor and be a part of it."
THAT may be overstating things, both in terms of his role in any perceived turnaround and his opponents' motives. But one thing is certain, he will most likely face a crowded field of challengers. These are expected to include Mr. Suarez; Wilfredo Gort, chairman of the City Commission; Jose Garcia-Redrosa, a former Miami and Miami Beach city manager; and Manny Diaz, a lawyer for Elian's Miami relatives.
If it is a fight his opponents want, bring it on, Mr. Carollo says: he is accustomed to juggling "one major crisis after another." As he sees it, dealing with the latest one to land the city in the nightly national news -- or a long list of candidates eager for his job -- is all in a day's work.

GRAPHIC: Photo: MAYOR JOSEPH CAROLLO (Cindy Karp for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOMESTIC OFFENSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (74%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (71%); ARRESTS (69%); ELECTION FRAUD (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (60%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (51%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; CUBAN-AMERICANS; BLACKS; DOMESTIC VIOLENCE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

CANEDY, DANA; CAROLLO, JOE (MAYOR); CAROLLO, MARIA LEDON 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (95%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) MIAMI (FLA)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



422 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: White House Asks Congress To Accelerate A Tax Cut 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16 

 BODY:
Faced with growing signs of a troubled economy, the Bush administration encouraged Congress today to rework the president's proposed tax cut and put more money than previously contemplated back in the hands of individuals this year.
 Administration officials said they would continue to insist that the total tax cut not exceed $1.6 trillion. But they said they would ask the Senate to draw up a tax package that included a bigger reduction this year than the $5.5 billion included in legislation passed earlier this month by the House. 
 "The president understands the concerns of the American people, the concerns about their savings, the concerns about their financial situation at this stage, and we need to do everything we can to help get more money into their pockets as soon as possible," said Scott McClellan, the deputy White House press secretary. 
Mr. McClellan spoke on a day when the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 207 points, ending its worst week since 1989.
While sticking to their argument that Mr. Bush's tax cut is too big and too tilted to the wealthy, Democrats have increasingly attacked the White House's plan and the House bill for doing too little to stimulate the economy this year. 
A $5 billion tax cut in a $10 trillion economy, Democrats said, would have almost no effect. As passed by the House, the income tax cut this year would amount to $180 for individuals and $360 for married couples.
Administration officials are now, in effect, calling the Democrats' bluff. They said that Mr. Bush had always favored making more of the tax plan retroactive to the beginning of this year, and that with Democrats seeking more, as well, there should be bipartisan support for such a change.
"More is always better," said Michele A. Davis, spokeswoman for Paul H. O'Neill, the Treasury secretary. "The House bill is better than what we started with, and more than that is also better."
Ms. Davis said the administration was not yet ready to discuss publicly how much of a tax cut it wanted this year. But members of both parties have pointed out that the government is projected to run a surplus this year of $125 billion outside the Social Security system, providing considerable room for a tax cut big enough to have a more powerful effect on the faltering economy.
The administration's willingness to seek a bigger tax cut for this year was first reported today by USA Today.
Democrats said their desire to give the economy an immediate push did not mean that they were willing to accept a version of Mr. Bush's proposal that would load more of the tax cut into the first year or two. 
They said they would continue to press for a tax cut in the range of $750 billion over the next decade, with the benefits intended mostly for low- and middle-income people. But they said it would make sense to construct the tax cut so that it helped the economy as much as possible in the short run, as long as it could be done within a budget that provided for paying off the national debt and increasing spending on programs Democrats consider priorities.
"If you're going to provide stimulus, let's do it soon, and let's target it to those families where it can do the most good," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Senate Democratic leader. "We can talk more about numbers and how much we can afford after we've had a chance to look at what the budget is."
Administration officials acknowledged that Mr. Bush would have to scale back or delay other parts of his tax package if he wanted to cut income tax rates more this year without pushing the 10-year cost of his plan above $1.6 trillion.
But they declined to specify which components of Mr. Bush's plan they were willing to put on the table. In addition to cutting all income tax rates, the president's proposal would double the child credit to $1,000, give a break to many two-income couples and repeal the federal estate tax.
Officials at the Treasury Department have been studying a variety of ways in which a substantial tax cut could be enacted this year, including making a one-time payment to taxpayers this summer or fall.
Republicans in the Senate said that if the current year's surplus and the budget now being drawn up for next year made money available for a retroactive tax cut, they would strongly support finding some way to cut taxes substantially this year.
"The sooner we move money out of Washington into taxpayers' pockets, the more it will help our credibility and the more it will help the economy," said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. "On that point, I think we would get Democratic support, because I think the Democrats are getting nervous about the economy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INCOME TAX (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (62%); MARRIAGE (50%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



423 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: If the Fed Cuts Rates, Will History Again Be Kind to Stocks? 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve will not come out and say that it is trying to help the stock market if it does what everyone assumes it will do on Tuesday and cuts short-term interest rates for a third time this year.
 If the past is an accurate indicator of future performance, the Fed will lower borrowing costs and the market will rise over the next 12 months. However, there are people who have raised serious doubts that history will repeat itself this time. 
 With major stock market gauges in near free fall and the economy apparently becalmed, the consensus on Wall Street holds that the Fed will cut its target on overnight bank loans by at least half a percentage point. That move would follow similar half-point reductions on Jan. 3 and Jan. 31. 
Interest rate cuts are always welcome events for equities. But they become particularly potent when the central bank doles out three or more in relatively rapid succession.
"A third cut usually convinces the market that the Fed really wants a recovery," said Edward Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Deutsche Banc Alex. Brown. "On Wall Street there is a saying, 'Don't fight the Fed.' But for the last week or so people have been wondering if the Fed is fighting hard enough for them."
There have been 13 periods since 1921 in which the Fed has delivered three rate cuts in relatively quick succession, according to analysts at Ned Davis Research. The most recent dose of this sort of monetary medicine came in the fall of 1998.
In the past cases, the stock market was almost always higher a year after the third rate cut. The one exception was 1930, the beginning of the Depression. Twelve months after Feb. 7, 1930, the date of the Fed's third rate cut, the Dow Jones industrial average had fallen by more than 35 percent.
The rest of the record is more impressive: for the other periods, the Dow was up an average of 21 percent 12 months after the last of the Fed's three rate cuts.
The Nasdaq composite index was not around in 1930. Since 1971, when the index was created, there have been eight periods when the Fed cut rates at least three times. And in the year after those cuts, the Nasdaq rose an average of 39.8 percent. (The gains are skewed by the 81.6 percent gain after the rate cuts from November 1981 through July 1982, and the 74 percent surge that came after the Fed cut rates in the summer and fall of 1998.)
Of course, there is no guarantee the medicine will work this time. Several analysts are skeptical that it will. And compared with past history, the market's response to the January cuts has been extremely poor.
"History is to be respected, but not blindly worshiped," said Steven S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "The odds are at least one in three, and possibly greater than 50 percent, that the market will underperform the 20-odd percent upward trajectory of the past."
Mr. Roach and others doubt a third rate cut will be able to cure what currently ails the equity market: high valuations, falling earnings and what is seen as a prolonged state of weakness in the technology sector.
Despite the 62.5 percent decline in the Nasdaq since its peak just over a year ago, "the fundamentals in technology are still terrible," said Richard Bernstein, chief quantitative strategist at Merrill Lynch & Company. Indeed, the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index closed yesterday at 172 times the combined earnings of the companies in the index.
"Technology is the lead weight on the market," Mr. Bernstein said. "Any interest rate cuts from here forward will help the rest of the market. But I am not sure Alan Greenspan can overcome the problems in the tech sector."
It is certainly true that the two rate cuts so far this year have not done technology much good: the Nasdaq bounced a tidy 6 percent in the 28 days after the first cut on Jan. 3. But since Jan. 31, when the Fed cut rates again by half a percentage point, the Nasdaq index has fallen more than 31 percent.
The Nasdaq has fallen in the period between the second and third rate cuts before, but only once. From Dec. 4, 1981, to July 20, 1982, the index declined 15 percent. The good news is that in the 12 months after the July 20 cut, the Nasdaq gained more than 81 percent.
Movement in the prices of the stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average since the first rate cut this year is also troubling.
From Jan. 3 to Jan. 31, the date of the second cut, the Dow was basically flat, falling 0.5 percent. But since the end of January, the blue-chip index has declined 9.6 percent.
The Ned Davis research shows that the Dow stocks fell in reaction to two rate cuts only once before, in 1921. Twelve months after the third cut that year, the Dow average was more than 40 percent higher.
"The market is probably willing to overlook declining earnings when there is visibility about when the process is going to end and the earnings recovery is going to take place," said Tom Van Leuven, an equity market strategist at J. P. Morgan.
"It doesn't seem to us that interest rates have a big impact on the direction of the market," he added. "When we start to see the pace of earnings revisions start to slow, and managements begin to express a bit more optimism about the future, we will feel better about stocks."
Currently, there are serious doubts that technology shares can rise from the ashes. But historically they have been the best performers after a third rate cut by the Fed.
In an analysis for clients, Birinyi Associates, a stock market research firm, tracked the performance of individual stock sectors between 1971 and 2000, a span when the Fed lowered rates three times during eight different periods.
Twelve months after a third rate cut, every industry group had moved higher. But the gains were biggest for communication equipment, computer software and semiconductor stocks; on average, the prices of these shares were at least 48 percent higher a year later.
Telephone stocks, shares in major regional banks and airline companies were the worst performers, according to the Birinyi study. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; FINANCES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANC ALEX BROWN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



424 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: New York City's Population Peak 

 BODY:
The first burst of census data from the year 2000 offers cause for optimism in New York City. The numbers show the city as an inviting metropolis, no longer a victim of flight and urban decay. After losing its population mostly to the suburbs and the South in the mid-1970's and early 1980's, the city began to register signs of renewal with the 1990 census. Now, in the latest round of counting, New York has broken the eight million mark, surpassing its historical peak in population of 30 years ago. The census has finally registered what any New Yorker knows firsthand from crowding into the subways or competing for an affordable apartment. America's largest city, benefiting from a decade of sustained immigration and a solid economy, is officially booming. 
 The Census Bureau's early, broad-brush rendering of last year's count also describes a perceptible shift in New York State's population from upstate to downstate. In political terms, these shifts should give the city more clout both in Albany and in Washington, including more seats in the Legislature and possibly insulation against losing a Congressional seat. 
 Much of the increase in the city's population comes from the latest wave of immigrants, who like earlier arrivals have provided labor and energy to New York City. This expansion is reflected primarily in the growth in the Hispanic and Asian populations, particularly in Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx. The black population grew only slightly over the past decade and the non-Hispanic white population continued to decline, but the new portrait of New York still shows a richly diverse city.
The greater accuracy of this census may account for more than half of the city's population increase, which was either 450,000 or almost 700,000 people, depending on what base is used. City employees worked diligently over the last few years to help census takers find previously uncharted living quarters that helped boost the city's census numbers. As a result, the city should automatically gain $40 million a year, at the very least, under various state and federal financing programs that distribute money based on population.
Unfortunately, even these latest census figures are probably still too low, since the census canvassers tend to miss many immigrants and others in poorer areas. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani needs to join the mayors of other metropolitan areas who are pressing for release of detailed adjusted data from the Census Bureau to determine whether the city would benefit from statistical sampling expected to help make up for some of the undercount.
The new numbers stand as a clear challenge to New York's political and urban thinkers to deal more quickly with the needs of a growing city. For too long, New York has been mostly patching and fixing an infrastructure planned and built many decades ago. This new data confirms the need for fresh, long-term strategies to cope with such difficulties as aging, crowded schools, an antiquated subway and transportation system, the scarcity of affordable housing, and a commercial sector that needs space and services to maintain a thriving economy. Bigger populations impose bigger responsibilities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (96%); CITY LIFE (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); SUBURBS (72%); REFUGEES (69%) POPULATION; EDITORIALS; CENSUS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



425 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: Misery Is Abundant For Potato Farmers; 
Bumper Crops Turned Into Fertilizer

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: IDAHO FALLS, Idaho 

 BODY:
Standing in ankle-deep snow in his potato field, James Hoff knelt down and unearthed one of the large russet potatoes he had reluctantly dumped here earlier this winter so that it would freeze and then turn to mush.
 "This is the first time I've ever had to dump my spuds," Mr. Hoff said sourly. "I hope I never have to do anything like this again." 
 Discarding fresh potatoes by spreading them back onto the fields like fertilizer is what Mr. Hoff and hundreds of farmers here in Idaho are doing this winter in response to a record harvest that has produced far too many potatoes and sent prices plummeting to their lowest levels in decades. 
Desperate growers are also giving away millions of pounds of potatoes to food banks and hunger drives. But the stocks of potatoes are still so huge, and farm prices so depressed, that many of the 7,000 farmers nationwide say they are on the verge of bankruptcy. By some estimates as many as a third of this state's nearly 900 potato growers could go broke within a year.
"It's pretty bleak," said Keith Esplin, president of the Potato Growers of Idaho, based in Blackfoot. "We've lost almost half the growers who were in business in 1995. And the feeling is if we don't change things, there'll just be corporate-type farms left."
Potato growers are the latest victims of a nasty recession that hit the nation's agricultural sector four years ago, when weakening demand from Asia and excellent weather created an oversupply of crops that sent farm prices tumbling.
Everyone from corn and soybean farmers to hog producers and apple and cranberry growers has been feeling the effects of a global downturn in agricultural commodities.
"Farm prices are at their lowest level in 15 to 20 years," said Keith Collins, the chief economist at the Agriculture Department. 
Yet few groups are as desperate as potato growers. While some deals are made at higher prices or under older contracts, the price many are being paid for 100-pound sacks of fresh potatoes has fallen from $8 to less than $1 today. That is far below the typical cost of production of about $5, which is climbing because of rising energy and fuel costs.
"This is certainly the worst I remember," said Tom Cooper, who has tracked potato prices for the Agriculture Department for 25 years. And even though the most recent figures from the U.S.D.A., for January, still show an average price for bags of fresh potatoes of about $2, lots of "growers are getting 75 cents to a dollar a hundredweight; we've never heard of numbers this low," he said. 
The reasons for the calamity are now clear. Excellent weather and planting conditions combined with better farm technology yielded a bumper crop in 2000 -- a potato harvest that at 52 billion pounds was nearly 2 percent more than the record crop in 1996.
Though the prices paid to farmers have been falling since 1996, when supply levels began to bulge, many growers continued to plant big crops in the hopes of profiting from a rebound in prices. Instead, they helped bring the crisis on themselves by producing exceptionally large harvests year after year.
"The root of our problem," said Wade Chapman, the operations manager of Idaho Supreme Potatoes, a big potato processor, "is the American potato farmer is too darn efficient."
Potato growers are also complaining that the strong American dollar has led to a flood of imports from Canada, forcing prices even lower.
Here in Idaho, the largest potato state with more than a quarter of the nation's production, the downturn is rippling through the Snake River Valley and depressing cities like Idaho Falls and Blackfoot, where storage cellars are still jammed with mounds of unsold potatoes.
"Right now, everybody's on the edge," said Gary Ball, 67, who farms 400 acres of the region's light volcanic soil just northeast of here with his 31-year-old son, Brian. "Even the good growers, the well-established growers, are on the edge."
A grower who got about $2,100 early in 2000 for a truckload of 420 sacks of fresh potatoes, enough money to just about break even, is now getting $400 for the same load, according to industry officials. Multiply that loss by the scores of truckloads a typical farmer ships each year and growers say it looks like a recipe for bankruptcy.
Farmers who grow potatoes primarily for processors are somewhat better off, because they were contracted to grow at a fixed price that is well above the price of fresh potatoes on the open market. But with a potato glut, good contracts are much harder to come by.
The downturn is also taking its toll on potato shippers, who wash, inspect and package the fresh potatoes sold to grocers. A series of big mergers in the supermarket and food service industry means that the bigger companies can leverage their power and demand even lower prices from shippers.
John Taylor, the owner of TG&T Produce, a small potato shipper here in Idaho Falls, was at his shop surveying his workers as they boxed fresh potatoes tumbling down a conveyor belt. A few workers were counting potatoes, others sorting the big from the small, the good from the bad. Still others were sealing boxes to be shipped to a big supermarket chain in Ohio.
"A few years ago you used to have little chains that everyone dealt with, but now that the big supermarket chains are buying everyone out, it's cut the amount of people we go to in half," Mr. Taylor said over the din and clanking of the potato conveyor belts. "And these companies demand such high quantities and low prices. They have a lot of leverage that way."
Processing plants, which turn fresh potatoes into frozen or dehydrated products, are also suffering because of higher energy costs and weakening demand.
Idaho Supreme, one of the biggest dehydrating processors in Idaho, was forced to shut down its giant plant here in Idaho Falls for 30 days last winter. About 350 employees were laid off around Christmastime.
"Our fuel prices got way out of line," Mr. Chapman said. "Some plants went from $100,000 a month in energy costs to $1 million."
Washington State, the nation's second-biggest producer of potatoes and the dominant exporter of frozen French fries, is also struggling with a downturn. Because growers in Washington sell most of their crop to companies that process potatoes into frozen or dehydrated products, the problem is not so much with surpluses and plunging market prices, but with processors building up large inventories for 2002.
"Every year the price on contracts is incrementally reduced," said Pat Boss, executive director of the Washington State Potato Commission. "You're probably wondering why if prices are going down our growers plant more potatoes. Well, potatoes are a rotational crop and other crops like wheat were doing worse than potatoes. So they were trying to take the lesser of two evils."
Higher up the food chain, there are fewer problems. The world's leading French fry makers, who buy fresh potatoes under contract with growers each year, are doing better than farmers and shippers. But many say they are also being squeezed by food makers and fast-food restaurants.
Big supermarkets are probably benefiting the most from the downturn. Although the price of fresh potatoes has dropped to about a penny a pound at the farm level, major grocers are still charging 39 cents to 69 cents a pound for russets.
Many growers have complained about the disparity, saying retailers and fast-food restaurants are reaping huge profits while farmers are suffering.
Some potato industry officials, however, say that their own studies indicate that consumers do not tend to buy more potatoes as prices fall. And the supermarket chains say they are offering some specials but are reluctant to lower prices because later, when the prices climb, consumers can have a negative reaction.
McDonald's, one of the nation's largest buyers of frozen french fries, declined to comment on the price disparities, saying only that "McDonald's has been the potato's best friend for the past 50 years."
The J. R. Simplot Company, based in Boise and one of the nation's biggest potato processors, said it did not expect to increase the value of its contracts.
"We recognize there will be significant cost increases to growers," said Fred Zerza, a company spokesman. But "we don't see the market being able to pass on additional prices."
To remedy the situation, potato growers are trying to band together to cut production levels for the 2001 crop. And the Potato Marketing Association is asking growers to reject "undervalued contracts." 
Time, however, is running out. Because potato growers are not eligible for federal farm assistance, bankruptcies are expected to rise during spring planting. And more and more potatoes are being ground up as slop and fed to cattle. The federal government might buy some potatoes, but whether that would really make a dent in the supply is doubtful.
Mr. Hoff, who has a storage cellar with 3.6 million pounds of fresh potatoes stacked nearly 20 feet high, climbed a small ladder and made his way to the top, where small fans were helping circulate the chilled air.
He said many growers were facing losses of $1,500 an acre. Despite the diversion -- the food banks, charity drives, cow slop and field dumpings -- there are still far too many potatoes in Idaho. And while he is hoping for the price to rebound, he is not too sure it will.
"It still looks grim," he said. "Even if the market moves it looks like it won't even get close to break- even." Less than a dollar for a hundred pounds of potatoes, he added, is just "a slap in the face to me."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers, above, at a potato packing plant in Shelley, Idaho, sort freshly washed potatoes for packing. Galen Williams, below, scoops up surplus potatoes to feed to the cattle on his ranch in Ucon, Idaho. (Photographs by Randy G. Hayes for The New York Times)(pg. C1); James Hoff has been forced to dump nearly 10 percent of some 40,000 bags of potatoes from one of his cellars in Idaho Falls, Idaho, this season. A glut of potatoes for the market and low prices have hurt growers. (Randy G. Hayes for The New York Times)(pg. C2) Chart: "Potato Glut"The United States had a record harvest of potatoes last year. In Idaho, the source of nearly one-third of the nation's crop, prices of fresh potatoes have fallen so low that they threaten to bankrupt some farmers. Chart shows potato production since 1990 and fresh potato prices since 1996.(Source: Department of Agriculture)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POTATO FARMING (94%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); RECESSION (78%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); FERTILIZERS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); BERRY FARMING (73%); TRENDS (73%); CORN FARMING (70%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (70%); HOG & PIG FARMING (70%); SOYBEAN FARMING (70%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%) AGRICULTURE; POTATOES; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) IDAHO

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



426 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: In the War on Coca, Colombian Growers Simply Move Along 

BYLINE:  By JUAN FORERO 

DATELINE: LLORENTE, Colombia, March 12 

 BODY:
This isolated town used to be as sedate and dirt poor as all the rest. 
 Then came coca and its byproducts, discos and prostitutes, pool halls and cantinas, cheap hotels and the businesses that cater to newcomers, stores with wood planks, tin sheeting and other materials for flimsy but serviceable housing. 
 The change began more than a year ago, local government officials and residents say, but accelerated with a huge American-backed campaign to destroy coca fields in adjacent Putumayo Province. The effort, the officials said, displaced coca growers and their crops, sending them to the jungles here in Narino Province. It is a familiar pattern. Coca came to Colombia because of success in eliminating it in Bolivia and Peru, without aerial spraying. 
"What the fumigation did was to transfer the phenomenon from Putumayo to Narino," said Gov. Parmenio Cuellar of Narino. "And if they fumigate Narino, the problem will go to another place."
Nowhere are the effects more visible than in this town on Highway 10, once a sleepy community of poor farmers that is luring hundreds of former Putumayo farmers, coca-laboratory workers and others drawn by the coca trade.
"They call this Little Putumayo, and they say people who are coming here are leaving Putumayo because of the fumigation," said the Rev. Domingo Moreno, a Roman Catholic priest who works in Llorente. "The people, more and more, are lured by coca, tempted by the magic leaf. Not only are they starting to plant coca, but they're also leaving behind the other plants they grew, plantation bananas and cacao."
Critics of aerial defoliation say the expansion of coca in Narino and elsewhere bore out a central warning about the plan to destroy coca in Putumayo: that eradication in one region causes coca to move to others.
"The argument I've always made is that the fumigation will not, in any way, do away with the coca fields," said Carlos Palacios, an expert on the coca trade and the human development secretary in the town of Valle del Guamues in Putumayo. "What fumigation does is that it causes the fields to simply transfer to other places."
Opposition to spraying is so strong in southern Colombia that mayors, church officials and others have been pushing President Andres Pastrana's government and the United States to stop the spraying. Mr. Cuellar and three other governors visited Washington this week to criticize the program and to lobby for aid to improve agriculture. 
American officials counter that the size of the Narino crop, with fewer than 15,000 acres under cultivation, is manageable compared with the 250,000 acres that existed in the coca-growing heartland of Putumayo and Caqueta Provinces before large-scale spraying began in late December. The Americans also note that the movement of people and planting of coca in Narino began long before the spraying in Putumayo. 
The Americans say the defoliation effort, called Plan Colombia, with its reliance on crop dusters, military helicopters and battalions of Colombian antinarcotics troops, is intended to contain the spread of coca. The plan is "intended to apply pressure in more places simultaneously than previously possible," said Jim Mack, deputy assistant secretary of state for international narcotics and law enforcement.
But the officials, and their Colombian counterparts, are worried.
"We're concerned about Narino," an official at the American Embassy said. "Right now, there's a lot more coca there, in Narino, so much so that in fact it's going to be one of our next priorities."
Mr. Cuellar said the migration into the province began before the spraying in Putumayo, as farmers and others in the coca trade became convinced that a broad plan to wipe out coca was going to become a reality. But he said the movement of people grew significantly in late September, when the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia closed roads throughout Putumayo to prove that it was in control, strangling the coca trade in the process.
On Dec. 19, Plan Colombia, with a goal of halving the estimated 336,000 acres of coca in five years, began. Financed with a $1.1 billion American aid package, the operation denuded 75,000 acres of coca in Putumayo in two months. Those whose farms became instantly worthless quickly packed up and left for Narino.
Provincial officials and workers from the central government's social service agency, Solidarity, said the displacement of people from Putumayo had stretched resources in Narino. Shantytowns have sprouted on the outskirts of Pasto, the capital. Crime has increased.
An estimated 10,000 people have fled Putumayo since September, with 1,600 settling in neighboring Ecuador, according to the director of Solidarity, Fernando Medellin. An additional 8,400 dispersed into Narino, Cauca and Huila Provinces, with most settling in this province, Mr. Medellin said. In Pasto, nearly 900 arrived in February, and about 40 new families arrive every week.
Alonso Matta, 36, who arrived two weeks ago in Pasto, said spraying his four-acre farm "got everything, my plantains, my coca, all of it."
"There are a lot of people who are leaving for that reason," Mr. Matta said. "They're going to go where they find work, where they can find some money."
In many cases, experts said, the migrants are going to where they can again grow coca. Other provinces like Amazonas, which is large, isolated and laced with rivers that allow the easy movement of contraband, may also have new coca fields, American officials said. Guaviare Province, which had large tracts of coca sprayed in 1999 and last year, has shown signs of a resurgence. 
Last month, the army said that it had found thousands of acres of coca on the border of Guiania and Vichada Provinces in the southeast. In the north, particularly in Santander Province, coca is also flourishing under the watchful paramilitary groups. 
American and Colombian officials who defend the eradication have noted that coca farmers with small-scale farms could voluntarily stop their coca in exchange for a benefits package. Many of those who fled Putumayo for Narino came from a region where farmers declined to sign pacts with the government to destroy their crops voluntarily. Ana Teresa Bernal, director of Redepaz, which works with the displaced, said 65 percent of those who fled worked in coca fields.
Llorente was in many ways the perfect place to relocate coca and coca labs, a locale that Mr. Cuellar calls "the door to the vast territories where narcotraffic is creating extensive coca fields." 
Traffickers can take advantage of many rivers to move in the processing chemicals and move out the finished product. Narino's long unguarded Pacific Coast is an ideal jumping-off point for northbound cocaine. 
And public security is nonexistent in the 100-mile stretch between Tumaco on the Pacific and Ricaurte, where the Andes rise dramatically, said Col. Jorge Valencia, the police commander in Pasto. Indeed, some newcomers here said they were well aware of the slight presence of security forces. 
"Here, everyone works in everything that has to do with coca," said a recent arrival from Putumayo who used to work in coca labs. "There are farms and labs and transportation, all of that. I'm looking for work in the lab."
Others seek work in new businesses or those that are booming because of the influx of cash.
"We've been seeing a lot more business," said Pilar Benavides, 18, who was born in Putumayo and who was running a pool hall while her parents picked coca. "They come to play pool, have some beers. The tables are always full on weekends, all the time. Here, any business will work. If you sell some corncakes on the street, you'll make money."
Jose Laborda, a vendor from Putumayo, said he left after spraying had dried up most businesses, including his. He quickly found a job as administrator of the Hotel Familiar.
"I see friends here and there and I ask them why they came," Mr. Laborda said. "They all say the same thing. The reason is economic."
Others, like Alberto Tapias, moved to Llorente to escape the violence in Putumayo. Mr. Tapias, a former coca grower who moved with his wife and three children, has given up coca for now. He works in a palm field.
"We're poorly paid, have little to eat, live badly, but we're better off," said Mr. Tapias, who is renting a newly built house in a crowded neighborhood filled with flimsy structures.
There are signs of change. Murders and other violent acts are increasing, officials said. Leftist rebels and their archenemies, the paramilitary groups, are more visible than before.
"There's a lot of concern," Father Moreno said. "I've said this is a time bomb. We don't know when it's going to go off. But it will." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of people from Putumayo have been displaced by an American-backed effort to eradicate coca. Scores arrive weekly in a neighboring province, and the coca trade is luring farmers away from other crops. (Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. A5) Map of Colombia highlights Llorente: Llorente was a sleepy town, until coca and its byproducts arrived. (pg. A5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COCAINE (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); COCOA FARMING (89%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); MAYORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HERBICIDES (75%); CROP PRODUCTION (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LOBBYING (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); RELIGION (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; DEFOLIANTS AND HERBICIDES; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE 

PERSON: FORERO, JUAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); PERU (79%); BOLIVIA (79%) COLOMBIA; PUTUMAYO PROVINCE (COLOMBIA); NARINO (COLOMBIA)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



427 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Wall St. Ends an Awful Week As All Eyes Turn to the Fed

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The stock market ended one of its worst weeks in history yesterday with all eyes focused on Tuesday's meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers in Washington.
 With the sell-off that sent all three of the major stock indexes down more than 6 percent for the week, hopes have quickly faded among analysts that the markets and the economy will snap back quickly. But the Fed, with its ability to cut short-term interest rates, still has the best weapon at hand to engineer a rebound, they say. 
 Yesterday's was the third sharp decline this week, as stocks plunged in the afternoon after a strong rebound from the morning's sell-off. The Nasdaq composite index, heavy with technology issues, fell through 2000 earlier this week for the first time since late 1998 and kept on going yesterday, through 1900. 
The Dow Jones industrial average, having fallen through 10,000 earlier this week, dropped below 9,900. It was the Dow's worst week since October 1989 and the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index's worst week since April last year.
Although the Nasdaq had fallen almost 60 percent before this week, the sell-off in the two other indexes since Monday has broadened the market's decline and confirmed, by Wall Street's definition, the arrival of the first bear market since 1987.
Slowing economic growth in the United States, despite a few positive signals, and sharply declining corporate earnings are weighing on stocks. The financial and political crisis in Japan, the world's second- largest economy, is threatening to become a drag on global economic growth.
In Europe, forecasts of growth are also slipping as signs of rising inflation delay the European Central Bank's expected cuts in interest rates. That delay helped send the euro down 3.7 percent against the dollar this week.
"Why aren't investors becoming more upbeat about the economy?" asked Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at the First Albany Corporation. "They should be." 
Despite a likely Fed rate cut on Tuesday that would be the third this year, and a Federal tax cut in the works, investors Mr. Johnson talks to expect no recovery in the economy or corporate earnings for the rest of the year, he said, adding, "That's very troubling." 
Or as Douglas R. Cliggott, chief equity strategist at J. P. Morgan, dismissing hopes of a rapid rebound in the economy or markets, put it, "The V recovery is gone." 
He said that the investors he talks to around the country were also becoming pessimistic about the longer term. Instead of just wondering whether there will be a recession or how soon to jump back into stocks, they question whether earnings growth will again be as strong as in 1999 and most of 2000. 
"There is a growing sense that we could be in a period of years when earnings-per-share growth could be much slower than in previous years," he said.
This pessimism is fed by a barrage of bad earnings news. Computer Sciences, a major computer services company, joined the crowd yesterday, cutting its quarterly profit forecast by as much as 60 percent and announcing the layoff of 700 to 900 workers. Its stock plunged 40 percent.
Analysts' current earnings forecasts for the companies in the S.& P. 500 index are for declines of 6.3 percent in the first quarter and 4.1 percent in the second quarters, a sharp reversal from forecasts, as of Jan 1. for 5 percent growth in each quarter.
Many investors appear to expect a cut of three-quarters of a percentage point by the Fed in its benchmark federal funds rate, the overnight rate on loans between banks. Many analysts, however, still think the Fed will cut rates by one-half of a percentage point.
Investors want the Fed to cut interest rates deeply and quickly, as the best way to turn the economy around and again make stocks palatable. So what is normally positive news, like last week's strong reported job growth or yesterday's news of rising consumer confidence, can become negative as investors worry that the Fed will be less aggressive in cutting interest rates.
But even if the Fed cuts rates Tuesday by only half a point, it will be Alan Greenspan's fastest series of cuts since he became Fed chairman in 1987.
Trading was volatile yesterday in part, some traders said, because it was a "triple witching" day on which a broad variety of options and futures expire. These expirations added to trading, pushing the volume on the New York Stock Exchange to 1.5 billion shares, well above the 1.1 billion daily average for the last year. 
Among the stocks leading the market down were I.B.M., Qualcomm, JDS Uniphase, United Technologies, Pfizer and Merck, a grouping that indicates the breadth of the sell-off.
The Dow fell 207.87 points, or 2.1 percent, to 9,823.41. It was off 7.7 percent for the week. The Dow is still the only major index that has not dropped 20 percent or more from its peak into what many on Wall Street define as bear market territory. But it is getting closer by the day. Its decline from its January 2000 peak is now 16.2 percent.
The Nasdaq index dropped 49.80 points, or 2.6 percent, to 1,890.91, and was off 7.9 percent for the week. Down 62.5 percent from its March 2000 high, this was its worst weekly showing since December, when it fell more than 8 percent in two separate weeks.
The S.& P. 500 index fell 23.03 points, or 2 percent, to 1,150.53, down 6.7 percent for the week. It is now off 24.7 percent from its March 2000 high.
Investors, given a plate full of mixed economic news yesterday, found no reason to change their downbeat mood. Before the market opened, the government reported that producer prices for finished goods rose just 0.1 percent in February, while the core rate, excluding food and energy, declined 0.3 percent. This inflation performance was surprisingly good, especially after the 1.1 percent jump in overall producer prices in January. 
At the same time, the Federal Reserve reported that industrial production declined 0.6 percent in February, reflecting the sharp slowdown in manufacturing. Such signs of low inflation and a weakening economy give the Fed more room to ease rates.
But an initial reading of consumer confidence in March showed a small upturn, according to a study by the University of Michigan. And while new-home construction fell 0.4 percent, it remained at a high level.
Taken together, this data led some to worry about how quickly the Fed would ease up. But if Mr. Cliggott and Mr. Johnson are right, investors are waiting for many more Fed cuts and signs of a turn in corporate earnings before they jump back in.
In the bond market, prices and yields were little changed as the consumer confidence report and the sharp rally Wednesday and Thursday sapped investors' appetite. Some investors felt that interest rates are already low enough to account for the cuts expected from the Fed.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.76 percent, a two-year low, from 4.78 percent Thursday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 5/32, to 100 28/32.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Dow Catches Bear Fever"The Nasdaq composite and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index have both dropped steadily this year. But the Dow Jones industrial average had largely escaped unscathed, until this week. It was the worst week in 12 years. WORST WEEKS OF THE DOW SINCE WORLD WAR II WEEK ENDEDOct. 23, 1987INDEX CLOSE: 1,950.80POINT DECLINE: 295.94PERCENTAGE CHANGE: - 13.2 Oct. 16, 1987INDEX CLOSE: 2,246.74POINT DECLINE: 235.46PERCENTAGE CHANGE: - 9.5 Oct. 13, 1989INDEX CLOSE: 2,569.26POINT DECLINE: 216.26PERCENTAGE CHANGE: - 7.8 March 16, 2001INDEX CLOSE: 9,823.41POINT DECLINE: 821.21PERCENTAGE CHANGE: - 7.7 Dec. 4, 1987INDEX CLOSE: 1,766.70POINT DECLINE: 143.80PERCENTAGE CHANGE: - 7.5 Sept. 13, 1974INDEX CLOSE: 627.19POINT DECLINE: 50.69PERCENTAGE CHANGE: - 7.5 Sept. 12, 1986INDEX CLOSE: 1,758.72POINT DECLINE: 141.03PERCENTAGE CHANGE: - 7.4 Sept. 27, 1974INDEX CLOSE: 621.94POINT DECLINE: 48.82PERCENTAGE CHANGE: - 7.3 April 14, 2000INDEX CLOSE: 10,305.77POINT DECLINE: 805.71PERCENTAGE CHANGE: - 7.3 June 30, 1950INDEX CLOSE: 209.10POINT DECLINE: 15.20PERCENTAGE CHANGE: - 6.8(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); EURO (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (64%); WORLD WAR II (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; INTEREST RATES; COMPANY REPORTS; CREDIT 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%); GLEACHER & CO INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%)

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (50%) FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



428 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: THE CENSUS: New York; 
Census Gains May Give City More U.S. Aid

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:
New York City's growing population, combined with the city's efforts to make sure that people were counted in last year's census, could be worth tens of millions of dollars each year in increased federal aid, city, state and federal officials say.
 But the census results are likely to cost New York State, which grew more slowly than the nation as a whole over the last decade. And in Albany, figures showing New York City accounting for a larger share of the state's population will add fuel to the age-old battle over how much state spending should go the city. 
 Much of the money Washington sends to state and local governments for health care, education, mass transit, housing and other programs is determined by population. Federal officials said there were no fewer than 185 funding formulas based at least in part on population. 
The 1990 count missed millions of people nationally, most of them urban and poor, while the 2000 census is regarded by population analysts as having been more accurate. Over the last few years, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani had the city's Planning Department search for households that had been missed by the Census Bureau, and the bureau sent questionnaires last year to 370,000 addresses provided by the city, significantly boosting the ultimate count.
Joseph B. Rose, chairman of the City Planning Commission, said much of the city's apparent population increase -- it will take further study, he said, to determine how much -- is simply due to better enumeration. 
The undercount in the city was probably less than half what it was in 1990, he said, and possibly far less.
"At a minimum," Mr. Rose said, "the city stands to gain $40 million to $50 million a year."
Senator Charles E. Schumer agreed that the benefit to the city would be in the tens of millions per year, as did state budget analysts in Albany. "The next mayor will get a little bit of a boost because of this mayor's good work in counting," Mr. Schumer said, noting that Mr. Giuliani is in his final year in office.
But other officials cautioned that the formulas for distributing federal money around the country could be changed by Congress. "I could see some of my colleagues from other regions of the country saying, 'Well, if New York stands to gain, we can't let that happen,' " said a representative from New York City.
City officials said it was as if the census had validated the yeoman's work the city was already doing, providing services to hundreds of thousands of people who did not officially exist after the last census, without the commensurate financing.
Figures released Thursday from last year's national census show New York City's population at just over 8 million, the first time the city topped that figure, up from the 7.3 million people found by the 1990 census. Numbers released in December showed New York State's population at just less than 19 million, up from less than 18 million a decade earlier.
These 1990 and 2000 figures do not reflect the Census Bureau's attempts to make statistical adjustments to compensate for undercounting. The New York Times has used the adjusted 1990 numbers for comparison purposes (the adjusted 2000 numbers have not been released), but those figures are not used for redrawing legislative districts or for distributing federal aid.
Without making those adjustments, federal aid will be based on numbers showing a growth rate of 9.4 percent for the city in the last decade and 5.5 percent for the state, well short of the national population boom of 13.2 percent. But in determining federal aid, those numbers do not tell the whole story. Some programs, like aid for mass transit, go primarily to major cities, and New York City grew more than most.
More important, many forms of aid are also distributed on the basis of the number of poor people. Although New York City's economy has boomed in recent years, the new census is likely to show that the number of people living in poverty actually rose, officials say, because the extra effort to locate city residents found mostly poor people. Census figures on family incomes have not yet been released.
Adam L. Barsky, the city's budget director, said the single largest aid increase for the city could be in Title I aid, money Washington gives to school systems based solely on the number of poor students. The city received $467 million in Title I aid last year. Similarly, the school lunch and Head Start programs in New York City stand to reap a larger share of federal aid based on the number of children living in poverty.
In another area, the city can sell tax-exempt bonds to help underwrite private construction of housing and commercial projects. The program, used mostly by cities, limits the bonds, effective next year, to $75 per person, so the city's population increase means an additional $51 million in bonding authority.
New York State officials said yesterday that they could not yet give even a rough estimate of how the recent census would affect federal aid to the state, but they said the numbers were certain to hurt rather than help.
New York State receives about $30 billion a year in federal aid, primarily for Medicaid, the health care program for the poor that is the single largest segment of the state budget, and for welfare. While such federal subsidies are based mostly on caseload and the design of the state's programs, some elements are tied to population as well.
Still other forms of federal aid, like money for highways, are linked more directly to population.
Several legislators said figures showing the city's share of statewide population rising from 41 percent to 42 percent will rekindle arguments over how much state aid the city should receive. City representatives say the city loses in the balance of payments with Albany, while upstate and suburban legislators deny it. The census numbers will be used to draw new legislative district lines, which could strengthen the city's hand in the Legislature.
In January, a judge ruled in a long-running trial that the state had not met its financing obligations to New York City schools. The city has long received less per pupil in state aid than the statewide average, a constant source of friction in the Legislature.
That aid is, in theory, doled out based on enrollment, poverty, the number of students who do not speak English and a variety of other factors. A more accurate count would, in theory, mean more aid for the city because it would count more of the poor and more immigrants. But the school aid formulas are largely the product of political deal-making, so what really happens to them, state officials say, is anyone's guess. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); CITIES (90%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%) POPULATION; CENSUS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%) PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



429 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Addressing The Undercount 

BYLINE:  By JOSH BARBANEL 

 BODY:
To examine growth in population during the last decade, The New York Times compared the newly released 2000 census counts with adjusted 1990 census figures provided by the United State Census Bureau to improve accuracy after the completion of the 1990 census.
 The adjusted 1990 figures were based on a second detailed survey of 170,000 households conducted several months after the original census was completed. This survey concluded that the 1990 census missed eight million people, many of whom were poor black and Hispanic residents of cities, and that it double-counted about four million people. 
 In 1991, the Bush administration did not adopt a statistical adjustment to modify the actual counts reported in the 1990 census and thus change the allocations of money for many federal programs. But the adjusted figures were eventually released for every census block in the country, and they have been widely used to adjust other surveys that estimate unemployment and housing.
The adjusted figures were used by The Times in an effort to provide the best estimate of population change during the last decade by subtracting the officially recognized 1990 undercount.
In New York City, for example, the population grew by 6 percent, or 456,000 people, when the effect of the 1990 undercount is taken into account. 
The new census also missed millions of people and double-counted others, but the estimates of the undercount are well below those of 1990. Eventually, adjusted 2000 numbers may be used to change the allocation of federal aid and change perceptions of how the city and country has changed.
In the meantime, New York City planning officials, like their counterparts across the country, contend that both counts missed thousands of people. In New York City, for example, officials say that as many as 200,000 residents may have been missed this year. JOSH BARBANEL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (97%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CITIES (75%) POPULATION; CENSUS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: BARBANEL, JOSH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



430 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Bankruptcy Vote: Here's a New Goal 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The injustice represented by the Congressional revision of personal bankruptcy law (editorial, March 16) is all the more pointed during this economic slump, when growing numbers of companies are filing for Chapter 11.
 In most cases, individual investors who have put hard-earned money into the promises of those companies will find that their investments are now worthless. 
Rarely, if ever, will they even be able to share in the liquidation proceeds of the failed businesses. 
 Indeed, it's quite conceivable that sour investments could cause a personal bankruptcy in which the officers of the failed corporations would have relief from creditors, but the individual would now have little or none.

HUGH SIEGEL
New York, March 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (88%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (88%); LIQUIDATIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (58%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (58%) BANKRUPTCIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: SIEGEL, HUGH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



431 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
OPEC to Cut Production, Officials Say

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries plans to cut oil production by approximately one million barrels a day, or 4 percent, in an effort to buoy falling prices, according to analysts and cartel officials at the group's meeting yesterday in Vienna.
 OPEC is expected to make an announcement about the production cut today , and analysts said the ultimate size of the reduction might vary somewhat, depending on the outcome of current talks. Officials of the 10-member group, which controls about 40 percent of worldwide oil production, have indicated that some non-OPEC nations like Mexico may also reduce exports, although that could not be confirmed. 
 News of the OPEC reduction, which is expected April 1, bolstered prices slightly on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Crude oil for April delivery rose 19 cents at the end of trading yesterday, to $26.74 a barrel. Most traders do not expect the production cut to set off a sharp jump in prices, but worries linger that it will further rattle a United States economy weakened by falling industrial output and consumer confidence. 
"OPEC is becoming the defender of $30 oil," said John P. Kilduff, senior vice president for energy risk management at Fimat, the commodities trading arm of Societe Generale. "They've concluded that the world economy can handle it, though I think that's an incorrect analysis. We've been doing nothing but slowing down in the face of high energy prices."
The cut comes as a rebuff to President Bush, who talked with Saudi Arabia's ambassador and the Emir of Bahrain on the eve of the OPEC meeting. While the White House declined to say what was discussed, it noted that Mr. Bush wanted OPEC "to open the spigot" of oil production. 
OPEC, however, appears determined to preserve a cohesion that helped it attain the high oil prices last year that lifted the economies of its members. Earlier in the week, analysts had expected the cut to be smaller, because of the moderating influence of Saudi Arabia. But the Saudis appear to have agreed to a larger reduction.
"There is a qualitative change in the relations between Saudi Arabia and the U.S.," said Mehdi Varzi, director of research at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. He added that the Saudis "are now able to withstand U.S. pressure."
Thanks to OPEC's cohesion, its members are confident they can intensely "micromanage the market," said Roger Diwan, managing director for the Petroleum Finance Company, a Washington consulting firm. OPEC is trying to strike a balance between its own economic needs and those of oil-consuming countries. The cartel has met every two months now for the last year, each time tinkering with output to keep oil in the range of $25 to $30 a barrel. 
The group will meet again on June 5 and 6.
The cut of one million barrels a day would come two months after OPEC cut output by 1.5 million barrels. But the true size of this cut will only be known in the coming months. Despite OPEC's newfound cohesion, its members have long overproduced to cash in on high prices.
Overproduction may depend upon two key factors: world demand and Iraq. If demand continues to slide, OPEC members will probably stick more closely to their production goals. Iraq, which is a nonvoting OPEC member, has kept oil off the market over the last few months, giving OPEC members incentive to overproduce to pick up the slack. Iraq's oil quotas are set by the United Nations. 
But analysts said Iraq had suggested that it planned to increase exports, and that oil traders had converged on Vienna to work out export deals with the Iraqis. If Iraq increases exports, other OPEC members will have to refrain from overproducing to keep prices above $25. Historically, however, OPEC has had difficulty retaining cohesion when prices slump. Countries produce as much as they can before prices fall even further, which accelerates the drop.
"Will they comply with even lower quotas for production in April than they had in February?" Mr. Varzi said. "The compliance level is what everyone is looking at. That will be the test of OPEC's credibility in the market."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ali Rodriguez Araque, OPEC's secretary general, at a news conference in Vienna. (Associated Press)(pg. C3) Graph: "COMMODITIES" tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since October 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. (pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CARTELS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); FUTURES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; QUOTAS; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (81%); NEWEDGE GROUP (55%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (55%); GLE (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (81%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (81%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (81%); NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BANERJEE, NEELA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRIA (90%); BAHRAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



432 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Shift Could Doom Air Pact, Some Say 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Efforts to complete the Kyoto Protocol, an international agreement intended to curtail global warming, have been seriously damaged by President Bush this week, negotiators and independent experts on the treaty say.
 The protocol, signed by the United States and more than 100 other countries but not yet ratified, was already in trouble, with the last round of talks concerning details of the agreement collapsing last November. 
 But when Mr. Bush issued a letter on Tuesday that renounced his campaign promise to cut carbon-dioxide emissions from power plants, he delivered what could be the coup de grace, said many foreign government officials, some White House ones and others involved in the talks. 
Some say this may be just as well, because the pact, negotiated in 1997 in Japan, contains targets for cutting emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases that are nearly unreachable because of rapid recent growth in many economies and energy use in many nations. Others say there are ways to change the agreement without losing years of work by rejecting it outright.
Mr. Bush's policy change was welcomed by Saudi Arabia, one of the treaty's staunchest opponents.
"This announcement by President Bush is the announcement of the death of the Kyoto Protocol," said Mohammed Al-Sabban, the energy adviser to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the leader of that country's negotiating team. 
Dr. Henry D. Jacoby, an expert on the treaty and an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said the treaty's outlines probably could not be salvaged. But the negotiating structure that led to it would probably continue, he said. 
"The Kyoto Protocol is really two different things -- it's the current text and numbers, and it's a process," he said. "The numbers are no longer going to work, but the process is going to go on. It has to, because the issue is too important." 
"It's clear," Dr. Jacoby added, "that this administration won't be able to go four years without dealing with this."
The pact, if ratified, would commit the United States and three dozen other industrialized countries to cut their combined emissions of heat-trapping gases by 2012 to 95 percent of the amounts measured in 1990.
Throughout last year, Mr. Bush had said he opposed the climate treaty because it would harm the economy and exempt developing countries from committing to reductions in emissions. 
But it was the definitive language in the letter, which represented the administration's first elaboration of its emerging climate policy, that startled many people, even some conservative Republicans who had long opposed the treaty. 
Several elements in the letter undermined the treaty. Some were seemingly intentional, like a pointed criticism of China and India. Other language, White House officials and others involved with the treaty said, remained in the letter even after meetings early in the week at which Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and other foreign affairs experts suggested changes.
Mr. Bush's reversal on power plants took away a valuable bargaining chip: evidence that the United States would commit to reduce emissions within its borders. Treaty experts said the shift would also seem to confirm suspicions of many European nations that the United States would avoid cutting emissions. 
In a separate passage, Mr. Bush alluded to what he called "the incomplete state of scientific knowledge of the causes of, and solutions to, global climate change." Yet environmental groups and even some officials in the chemical industry, where many companies have already started to cut emissions, said the scientific consensus was stronger than ever. 
"We saw sufficient science emerging to warrant what in our judgment was prudent action back in 1991," said Thomas R. Jacob, the manager of international and industry affairs for DuPont, one of several dozen corporations that have committed to voluntary reductions in their greenhouse-gas emissions. 
Some longtime opponents of the climate treaty said they were surprised that the letter lacked the usual nuances and qualifications required to sustain diplomatic discussions, regardless of a country's stance on the substance of a treaty. 
Other critics of Kyoto welcomed the unambiguous statement. Dr. S. Fred Singer, a retired physicist and longtime critic of research indicating a warming trend with a human cause, said he hoped Mr. Bush would kill the treaty outright.
"The Kyoto Protocol is like a vampire," Dr. Singer said. "You need to drive a stake through its heart. Otherwise it'll keep coming back and causing problems."
The Bush letter has generated a number of cables from European governments to the State Department expressing concern for the fate of the climate talks.
More telling, perhaps, was the reaction in China, where an official in the foreign ministry yesterday restated the stance of developing countries, that the United States and other industrialized countries must take the first steps to reduce emissions.
"The developed countries have been discharging greenhouse gases for over a hundred years," the official said. "They bear the historical responsibility on climate changes that cannot be shirked." 
White House officials said that the letter reflected Mr. Bush's position on Kyoto, but did not preclude further talks. "The president clearly expects his administration to be active internationally in dealing with the issue," said Sean McCormack, a White House spokesman. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); POWER PLANTS (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%) WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; CARBON DIOXIDE; KYOTO PROTOCOL 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) REVKIN, ANDREW C; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



433 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Defense Attacks Credibility of Witness in Ex-Financier's Trial 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY 

DATELINE: TRENTON, March 16 

 BODY:
The federal government's chief witness against Robert E. Brennan, the former penny-stock promoter, concluded his testimony today, with Mr. Brennan's lawyer insinuating that the witness was a thief and a liar and denouncing his immunity deal with prosecutors.
 Over two days of cross-examination, the defense lawyer, Michael Critchley, sought to undercut the credibility of the witness, Peter M. Bond, the head of a financial management company on the Isle of Man, by insisting he had deceived a bank in 1996 and had routinely diverted money from the accounts of Mr. Brennan and of other clients. 
 Mr. Bond denied all Mr. Critchley's assertions that he took clients's money. But on Wednesday, in his first full day of cross-examination, Mr. Bond acknowledged he had been less than candid in a letter that asked a bank on the Isle of Man to set up an account for a company called Watabe Ltd.
The letter identified Watabe's owner as Michael Thompson, an accountant whom Mr. Bond wrote that he had known for 10 years. In reality, the owner was Mr. Brennan. Mr. Bond testified that he wanted to keep Mr. Brennan's ownership hidden.
"You were lying and deceiving the bank," Mr. Critchley said. 
"We were being economical with the truth," Mr. Bond replied.
Mr. Critchley asked what that meant. "It was a game of smoke and mirrors," Mr. Bond replied.
"You're pretty good at smoke and mirrors," Mr. Critchley shot back sarcastically.
"I think there's enough charts around here that suggest that," Mr. Bond responded. He was referring to dozens of enlarged charts of bank records and financial dealings stacked against a wall in Judge Garrett E. Brown's courtroom in United States District Court here.
At another point during Mr. Critchley's questioning, Mr. Bond seemed to retreat from earlier testimony that he had put $20 million in stock-sales proceeds for Mr. Brennan into an account called Risk Capital. Mr. Critchley challenged that figure, and Mr. Bond said the net gain for Mr. Brennan could have been $15 million or even $10 million after deductions of expenses and fees for himself and his company, Valmet. Earlier in the week, Mr. Bond told the government's prosecutor, Paul Weissman, that his fees and expenses for handling Mr. Brennan's finances totaled about $1.7 million.
The sharpest exchange today between Mr. Critchley and Mr. Bond dealt with the immunity deal he received after agreeing to come to the United States last summer for questioning by federal prosecutors. Mr. Bond said the deal spared him from any possible criminal charges in exchange for truthful testimony about his handling of Mr. Brennan's finances.
Mr. Critchley reminded Mr. Bond that Mr. Brennan was indicted six weeks after Mr. Bond's interview. And the defense lawyer argued that what Mr. Bond told prosecutors about Mr. Brennan allowed him to return to the Isle of Man to pursue his financial career.
"It was a freedom saver," Mr. Critchley said of the immunity deal.
"No," Mr. Bond replied calmly. He said he had agreed only to tell the truth. Then he asked if Mr. Critchley thought he would come to the United States and lie to prosecutors if he had a legal problem with them.
"Absolutely, positively," Mr. Critchley responded.
Mr. Brennan, 57, is charged with 13 counts of bankruptcy fraud and money laundering. He is accused of failing to report about $525,000 in casino chips and $4 million in municipal bearer bonds on a bankruptcy petition he filed in August 1995. About three weeks earlier, the Securities and Exchange Commission won a $75 million court judgment against him for defrauding buyers of the low-price stocks he promoted in the early 1980's through his brokerage at the time, First Jersey Securities.
Mr. Bond has testified that Mr. Brennan summoned him to his home in Colts Neck, N.J., in June 1995 and gave him the $4 million in bonds. Mr. Bond said he sold the documents at Mr. Brennan's urging later that year and invested the proceeds in the stock market, realizing a $20 million profit for Mr. Brennan by mid-1997.
Mr. Bond testified that he deposited the stock proceeds in the Risk Capital account and then later created about two dozen dummy companies that allowed Mr. Brennan to make millions confidentially in loans and investments. They included the purchase of two large yachts, a share in a diamond mine in Africa and stock in the Garden State Racetrack, which Mr. Brennan once owned.
Of the $4 million in proceeds from the bond sale, Mr. Brennan is accused of illegally using only $251,000 of it, including about $61,000 for a Mediterranean cruise and $100,000 for chartered jets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CROSS EXAMINATIONS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); BONDS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IMMUNITY (78%); INDICTMENTS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); ETHICS (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES 

PERSON: BOB BRENNAN (79%); MIKE THOMPSON (76%) HANLEY, ROBERT; BRENNAN, ROBERT E; BOND, PETER M; CRITCHLEY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISLE OF MAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



434 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Religion Journal; 
How to Harness the Power of Small Congregations

BYLINE:  By GUSTAV NIEBUHR 

 BODY:
A few years ago, two faculty members at Hartford Seminary's Institute for Religion Research in Connecticut embarked on a sweeping project, a study of religious life in the United States across a wide array of faiths.
 The result, released this week, is a survey called "Faith Communities Today," which includes data on topics like finances, programs and leadership, among 41 denominations and faith groups, Protestant, Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Jewish, Muslim and Baha'i. The project's directors, David A. Roozen and Carl S. Dudley, have estimated that the material they gathered represents the experience of 90 percent of the nation's religious worshipers. 
 And that makes one finding in particular stand out: Half of all congregations, according to the report, contain fewer than 100 adults who regularly participate in those congregations.
This has many implications, not least for President Bush's hopes that the nation's "faith-based communities" can be encouraged toward greater collaboration with government in providing social services. 
In an interview, Professor Roozen said that some people had had a better sense of these congregations when he compared them with small businesses. In the nation's economic life, he said, "small businesses seem to be the driving force of innovation, but they are fragile."
When it comes to congregations, he said, "large and small are not better or worse, but they're different." The small ones "draw people in at a higher level of personal commitment, because of the social relationships," he said. "That's part of their strength and vitality. I think that's why so many more Americans are involved in religious organizations than you find in European countries."
But their size also limits what these congregations can do.
Some small congregations function without even written budgets. "It works perfectly well as a house of worship," Professor Roozen said. "But it's hard to imagine that kind of congregation moving easily into an application for federal funding."
Again, he cited the analogy with small business. "It's one thing for I.B.M. to keep track of federal regulation, but with small business, it's hard."
But Professor Roozen said there was another way to look at how these small congregations might relate to the possibilities the White House has suggested. At least some of these houses of worship "work in partnership, especially the urban ones, so there's such-and-such County United Ministries," he said.
And even if they have not established a separate, nonprofit organization, the small congregations often "are contributing money and volunteers to other organizations," he said.
The project has an Internet site: www.fact.hartsem.edu.

Good News, Bad News
Religious life abroad, specifically Jewish life in the former Soviet Union, is the concern of Rabbi Berel Lazar, who as a youth studied in the Chabad Lubavitch yeshiva in Brooklyn, and now serves as elected chief rabbi of Federation of Jewish Communities of Russia, which represents Jews in 84 cities.
Asked on a visit to New York this week about the situation Jews face in the former Soviet Union, he reported good news and bad.
On one hand, he said, there is far greater religious freedom -- and resulting communal activity among Jews -- than what existed under the former Communist governments. And people in positions of political or cultural importance seem ready to acknowledge their Jewish roots publicly, which encourages Jews throughout Russia, Rabbi Lazar said.
The downside is that acts of anti-Semitism persist, he said, citing two cases of desecration of cemeteries and one in which a day school was vandalized. "We feel today that the government understands that this is a problem," he said, "but we believe there is a long, long way to go."
One positive sign, a gesture toward reviving Jewish religious life, Rabbi Lazar said, is the response in Moscow to a campaign in which he has been involved to distribute matzos for Passover.
"One of the things people do remember is Passover -- not so much the holiday, but the matzo," he said. "That's something the Communists couldn't stop, because if you wanted matzo, you made it at home."
The campaign has billboards around Moscow, alerting people to the availability of matzo brought in from Israel, distributed in community centers and synagogues. "There are lines of people forming," Rabbi Lazar said, "to get this matzo and bring it home and taste it again, the taste of childhood."

An Act Is Condemned
When Afghanistan's ruling Taliban government set out to destroy two massive statues of the Buddha, carved into a rock face more than 1,000 years ago, political and cultural organizations worldwide protested.
Some of those who tried to dissuade the Taliban, which espouses a very strict interpretation of Islam, were other Middle Eastern governments. But the Taliban went ahead.
Last week, the American Muslim Council, in Washington, released a statement condemning the destruction as "reprehensible" and a betrayal of injunctions in the Koran "that emphasize tolerance for all religions." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (87%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); CHURCH & STATE (73%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHURCH-STATE RELATIONS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%) NIEBUHR, GUSTAV; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



435 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-5

Growing Ethnic Skirmishes Threaten War in Macedonia
Police troops in Tetovo, Macedonia's second-largest city, fired for hours at ethnic Albanians who belong to a group of insurgents trying to claim parts of Macedonia that are overwhelmingly Albanian. Fierce fighting is breaking out and the population is quickly dividing between Slavs and Albanians in Macedonia, which until now had escaped the ethnic carnage of Kosovo, to the north. A1

Deadly Blasts in China
Explosions that appeared to be coordinated killed at least 18 people in Shijiazhuang, an industrial city 120 miles south of Beijing, sending riot police officers into the streets and setting off rumors that laid-off factory workers were seeking revenge. A3

Plans for Taiwan Arms Sale
The Bush administration officially gave Congress details of a request by Taiwan for advanced weapons, a deal that China vigorously opposes. A3

Bush Weighs Stance on Yen
The White House is said to be debating whether to allow a rapid and steep devaluation of the yen to ease the growing financial crisis in Tokyo. Such a move is strongly opposed by American automakers and other businesses that compete with Japan. A4

Saudis Storm Hijacked Jet
The police in Medina forced their way into a Russian jet that officials said had been hijacked by two Chechen men. One hijacker was shot dead after he fatally stabbed a flight attendant, and another passenger was killed, officials said. A5

World Briefing A5

SPORTS D1-8

More N.C.A.A. Upsets
No. 10-seeded Butler beat No. 7-seeded Wake Forest, 79-63, in the Midwest Region. No. 12-seeded Gonzaga beat No. 5-seeded Virginia, 86-85. D1

Chinese Player to N.B.A.
Beijing has reportedly agreed to let Wang Zhizhi, a 7-foot-1 center drafted by the Dallas Mavericks in 1999, leave China to become the first Asian player in the N.B.A.. D4

NATIONAL A6-9

Bush May No Longer Seek Bar's Advice on Nominees
President Bush's legal advisers have told the American Bar Association that they want to end the group's nearly half-century role as a semiofficial screening panel for judicial nominees, lawyers involved in the discussions said. Many conservative Republicans have long complained that the bar association has displayed a liberal bias in evaluating prospective federal judges. A1

Accelerated Tax Cut Urged
The Bush administration, faced with growing signs of a troubled economy, encouraged Congress to rework the president's tax cut proposal and put more money than previously contemplated back into the hands of individuals this year. But administration officials said they would continue to insist that the total cut not exceed $1.6 trillion over 10 years. A8

Delay on New Forest Rules
The Bush administration essentially put off a decision on whether to defend a court challenge to Clinton administration rules putting a third of the national forests off limits to development. It also offered to postpone when the new rules would take effect, probably until at least early summer. The moves signaled that the administration might consider a settlement that could significantly scale back the effect of the rules. A7

Warming Pact in Trouble
Efforts to complete the Kyoto Protocol, an international agreement intended to curtail global warming, have been seriously hurt by President Bush's reversal of a campaign promise to cut carbon dioxide emissions at power plants, negotiators and independent experts said. A7

The E.P.A. administrator, Christie Whitman, said Mr. Bush's decision was driven by concern that capping emissions could cause the energy problems in California to spread. A7

California Refunds Ordered
Federal regulators told electric-power suppliers to refund $55 million to state utilities unless they could justify prices that the regulators called excessive. A6

Religion Journal A9

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Jury Clears Combs Of Gun and Bribery Charges
A Manhattan jury acquitted the hip-hop mogul Sean Combs of all charges arising from a 1999 nightclub shooting that left three people injured. A second defendant, Anthony Jones, was also cleared, but a third, Jamal Barrow, 21, a young rap artist, was convicted of five of eight charges. A1

If he could do it all over again, Mr. Combs would shed the bad-boy stuff, he said in an interview that was conducted before the verdict. B2

Pay Figures in Torricelli Inquiry
Two former aides to Senator Robert J. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey, have told a federal grand jury that his office paid government salaries for months to four aides who mainly worked on his 1996 campaign, lawyers and others said. B1

Prosecutor Is Dismissed
The Brooklyn district attorney, Charles J. Hynes, fired Francis A. Mainiero, a senior prosecutor who is the subject of a federal investigation into accusations of bribe-taking. Officials said Mr. Mainiero had failed to report his being offered a bribe. B3

EDUCATION

End of Ill-Fated Center Effort
Queens College returned $3 million of the $4.5 million donated by Dr. Bernard Salick, an alumnus who had given the money to seed what he and the college hoped would become a renowned AIDS research center. B1

ARTS & IDEAS B7-16

Drawings Detoured by Lawsuit
Vatican concerns about a California lawsuit against its library led to the Metropolitan Museum of Art's losing an exhibition of Botticelli drawings to the Royal Academy in London. B7

OBITUARIES C17

Ann Sothern
The snappy actress and singer, whose career included Broadway, Hollywood and television, was 92. C17

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

Stocks Hold Downward Course
The Dow fell 207.87 points, or 2.1 percent, to 9,823.41; the Nasdaq dropped 49.80 points, or 2.6 percent, to 1,890.91; and the S.& P. 500 lost 23.03 points, or 2 percent, to 1,150.53, capping one of the worst weeks ever for stocks. Investors are looking for relief from the Fed, which is expected to cut interest rates on Tuesday. A1

The Wall Street consensus is that the Fed will cut rates at least half a percentage point, though some experts wonder if that will lift the markets. C1

Decision to Cut Oil Production
Analysts and cartel officials at the OPEC meeting in Vienna said production would be cut back by about one million barrels a day, or 4 percent, to buoy falling prices. C1

Airline Deal Clears Hurdle
The Justice Department said it would not challenge American Airlines' bid to take over T.W.A., eliminating the last major hurdle to the proposed $742 million deal. T.W.A. filed for bankruptcy protection in January. C1

U.S. Joins Suits Against HCA
The government joined eight whistle-blower lawsuits against the nation's largest hospital company that contend that the company schemed to defraud federal health programs. C1

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A10-11

Editorials: New York City's population peak; dealing with Mr. Putin; new weapons against tuberculosis.

Columns: Frank Rich, Anthony Lewis.

Bridge B13
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather D8
Public Lives A6

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); RIOTS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); DEVALUATION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); LIBERAL MEDIA (64%); FORESTRY REGULATION & POLICY (64%); JUDGES (60%); LIBERALISM (60%); TAX RELIEF (60%); AUTOMAKERS (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (76%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); MIDWEST USA (79%); HEBEI, CHINA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%); ALBANIA (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (93%); KOSOVO (92%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



436 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Markets Continue to Fall; Dow Closes Below 10,000
The Dow Jones industrial average had its worst week since October 1989, falling 821 points, or 7.7 percent, to close at 9,823.41. Yesterday, the Dow dropped 207.87 points, or 2.07 percent. The Dow is the only major gauge that has not dropped 20 percent or more from its peak into what many on Wall Street define as bear market territory.
 The Nasdaq composite index dropped 49.80 points, or 2.6 percent, to 1,890.91, and was off 7.9 percent for the week. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index decreased 23.03 points, or 2 percent, to 1,150.53. Page A1. 

Internet Ads Grow and Make Noise
Until recently, advertising on the Internet stayed in one place and didn't speak until spoken to, or at least clicked on. Now, as even the biggest Internet sites struggle with a sharp decline in ad revenue, sites are letting their remaining advertisers occupy a much larger portion of their pages, as well as create ads that move, make noise and otherwise do whatever it takes to attract attention. A1.

White House Debates Yen Policy
As President Bush prepares to meet on Monday with Japan's prime minister, Yoshiro Mori, the White House is debating whether to allow a rapid devaluation of the yen, officials close to the debate said. Such a move could ease the growing financial crisis in Tokyo but is strongly opposed by the American automotive industry because Japanese exports would become less expensive. A4.

Bush Seeks Bigger Tax Cuts
Faced with growing signs of a troubled economy, the Bush administration encouraged Congress to rework the proposed $1.6 trillion tax cut and put more money than previously contemplated back in the hands of individuals this year. Administration officials said they would ask the Senate to draw up a tax package that included a bigger reduction this year than the $5.5 billion included in legislation passed earlier this month by the House. A8.

Relief Over a Scandal in New Delhi
Traders at the Bombay Stock Exchange finished one of their most chaotic weeks in memory, sighing with relief that a political scandal in New Delhi had finally overshadowed accusations of market rigging and misconduct by the head of the exchange, which had caused the market to plunge in recent weeks. After India's defense minister, George Fernandes, was forced to resign on Thursday because of the uproar over a sham weapons deal, the market dropped just 1.9 percent. B3.

Construction of New Homes Drops
The Commerce Department reported that construction of new homes decreased 0.4 percent -- the first decline since October -- to a still robust annual rate of 1.647 million units in February from a pace of 1.653 million in January. That report plus a survey on consumer sentiment, which showed an unexpected swing in optimism last month, indicated some strength in the economy. Prices paid to manufacturers, farmers and other producers, meanwhile, rose modestly, while industrial production slumped in February. B2.

Computer Sciences Profit Warning
Computer Sciences plans to cut 700 to 900 jobs, or about 1 percent of its global work force, and said that it would miss earnings forecasts by a wide margin this quarter. The company blamed reduced demand for traditional information technology consulting. Computer Sciences expects to earn 35 cents to 37 cents a share in the fourth quarter, below the 92 cents forecast by analysts. B4.

Matsushita to Reduce Group Assets
Matsushita Electric Industrial said it would cut group assets by a trillion yen ($8.2 billion) within three years. The company, based in Osaka, Japan, hopes to achieve its goal by cutting inventory by about 400 billion yen by the year ending March 31, 2004. B3.

GRAPHIC: Chart shows Housing Starts stock progress since September. Chart tracks the Dow Jones Industrial Index since March 2000.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,823.41 down 207.87Nasdaq composite -- 1,890.91 down 49.8010-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.76% down 0.02The euro -- $0.8958 down 0.0039The dollar -- 122.82 yen up 0.50

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); TAX LAW (86%); TAX RELIEF (86%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); MISCONDUCT (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (74%); CARTELS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); DEVALUATION (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (71%); CURRENCIES (71%); POLITICS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LEGISLATION (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); HOUSING STARTS (62%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%); MUMBAI, INDIA (52%) INDIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



437 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Dealing With Mr. Putin 

 BODY:
After the erratic but generally pro-Western leadership of the Yeltsin era, President Vladimir Putin has brought a more nationalist tone to Russian diplomacy. In some areas, like this week's announcement of renewed conventional arms sales to Iran, his policies run directly counter to Washington's. Yet in others, like arms control and his efforts to bring Russia into the global economy, Mr. Putin hopes for cooperation. 
 These mixed messages pose a challenge for the Bush administration, which came into office promising a tougher, more realistic relationship with Russia. When Moscow's policies collide with America's national interests, Washington must oppose them. But the United States should not turn away from encouraging Russia's transition to a market economy and democracy and working with Mr. Putin to reduce nuclear dangers left over from the cold war. 
 Russia should not be offering Tehran spare parts for its planes and tanks and an advanced new air defense system. Nor should it be building a civilian nuclear power reactor in Iran that could become a conduit for sharing nuclear weapons technology with Iranian scientists. Iran's military is still dominated by clerical conservatives who support international terrorism, oppose peace between Israel and the Palestinians and are driving to develop nuclear weapons. 
Moscow is also acting irresponsibly in its relations with former Soviet republics like Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova, using its choke hold over energy supplies to press these governments for military, economic or political concessions. Further east, Russian troops are stationed in former Soviet Central Asia to help fight Islamic insurgencies. Mr. Putin, who spent his formative years as a Soviet intelligence officer, seems determined not only to restore the authority of the Russian state but also to rebuild some of Moscow's old international ties, and he has made a point of visiting Soviet-era allies like Cuba and Vietnam. 
But he seems to understand that Russia's most important security relationships are with the West, including the nuclear arms and ballistic missile agreements with the United States. In recent months he has softened his opposition to America's missile defense plans and signaled a willingness to negotiate with the Bush administration about both offensive and defensive missile systems. Washington should explore this possibility.
Mr. Putin also appears to recognize that despite the lift Moscow has gotten from high oil prices, Russia's economic vitality depends on increased trade and investment with the West. That will require sterner measures against corruption and a radical simplification of business licensing rules. The West should encourage these steps. 
There should be no illusions in Washington about Mr. Putin. He is steering Russia on a more assertive and independent course than his predecessor, Boris Yeltsin. But it may also prove to be a more predictable and pragmatic course. The Bush administration should encourage cooperation in areas where it is possible, for Russia's integration into the the global economy and its support for arms control measures would benefit both Washington and Moscow. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); ARMS TRADE (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); AIR FORCES (73%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (72%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); TERRORISM (51%); RELIGION (50%); CORRUPTION (50%) EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRIME MIN); YELTSIN, BORIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); GEORGIA (79%); ASIA (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UKRAINE (79%); IRAN (58%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



438 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
COOPER INDUSTRIES LOWERS ITS EARNINGS FORECAST

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 The diversified manufacturer Cooper Industries cut its first-quarter earnings forecast yesterday and said it could eliminate almost 6 percent of its jobs because of the slowing economy. 
Earnings are expected to be 60 cents a diluted share, down from 89 cents a year earlier and below the 90 cents expected in a Thomson Financial/First Call survey. In addition, job cuts of 1,500 to 2,000, "wouldn't be at all unreasonable for starters," said John Riley Jr., Cooper's chairman, president and chief executive, on a conference call with analysts and investors. The Houston-based company had 34,000 employees at year-end.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); LAYOFFS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); CONFERENCE CALLS (84%); EXECUTIVES (82%) FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: COOPER INDUSTRIES 

INDUSTRY:  SIC3612 POWER; 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (50%) TEXAS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



439 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Journal; 
The Slumber Party

BYLINE:  By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
It felt like an episode of "The Twilight Zone" to pass through Florida last weekend. There, splashed over most of the front page of Sunday's Palm Beach Post, was the paper's investigative scoop: Palm Beach County's butterfly ballot cost Al Gore "about 6,600 votes, more than 10 times what he needed to overcome George W. Bush's slim lead in Florida." 
 It felt like "The Twilight Zone" because beyond Palm Beach -- or Boca, at any rate -- who knew or cared? I turned on my TV and had to search to find a mention of the Post's story. It might as well have been a hallucination. 
 This is less an indictment of the national media than a political reality. Democrats may be furious about being robbed in Election 2000, but they don't go in for nostalgia about what might have been. They don't know where Al Gore is, or (even now) who he is. They don't know where the Democratic Party is. It was also last Sunday that Robert Reich, Bill Clinton's labor secretary, declared in The Washington Post that the Democrats are "an ex-party" that has "expired and gone to meet its maker." Who would argue? The party that won the popular vote on Nov. 7 stands for little and has no evident leaders. In the Senate, the best the Democrats can come up with for a political strategy is a death watch.
If too much has been said about the Clinton post-presidency, too little has been said about the Al Gore post-vice presidency. His narrow, very un-Dukakis-like loss has not emboldened him but seemingly thrust him into the witness protection program. The only public issue on which he's taken a loud stand is the death of Dale Earnhardt. (He was against it.) He remained mum about the Clinton pardons -- even as he leaked his disfavor sotto voce through emissaries -- and about George W. Bush's reversal this week on a signature Gore issue, global warming. Showing the same political skills that animated (barely) his campaign, Mr. Gore has instead made news by reconnoitering with his biggest donors at an Upper East Side dinner at the very height of the pardons fracas and by teaching a Columbia Journalism School class that initially placed the fledgling reporters in his tutelage under a gag order.
Into the Clinton-Gore vacuum comes . . . who? Would-be '04 candidates like Senators John Edwards and Evan Bayh are tossing their hats into the Cokie-chat circuit, not so much because they have compelling thoughts or achievements but because they fit the media's ideal mold for political "fresh faces" -- they resemble ambitious, if mid-market, local TV news anchormen. In their televised response to President Bush's Congressional address, Tom Daschle and Richard Gephardt offered not an alternative governmental vision but a hastily assembled alternative tax cut, dressed up in some of the populist rhetoric remaindered from the Gore campaign. Not even the latest rash of school shootings moved the Democrats to speak up about gun control, a former passion of the party that was scuttled by Mr. Gore last year. 
What makes the Democrats' ineffectuality all the more bizarre is that it's in opposition to a new president who is hardly as formidable as Ronald Reagan and whose major policy innovations thus far seem to be institutionalizing nicknames at the White House and redefining medical terminology so that each of Dick Cheney's emergency heart procedures can be labeled as "precautionary." 
Here's a scorecard on the new administration's agenda to date:
* The economy: The president has sold his $1.6 trillion tax cut as "just right" -- a "jump start" for a "faltering" economy. Even as the market started gasping for breath this week, he stuck to his script, saying his plan would give the economy a "second wind." Does anyone believe that? Even were the Bush tax cut more equitable in offering relief to Americans with fewer Alcoa shares than his treasury secretary, it's too little and too late to serve as a stimulant. Eighty-nine percent of the cuts don't kick in until 2006, and now conservatives are in full panic that Mr. Bush's "right" number could in fact make a downturn worse. The G.O.P., following Mr. Bush's rhetoric, is invoking John Kennedy in ads plugging the tax cut, but as Stephen Moore observed in The Weekly Standard: "The Reagan and Kennedy tax cuts sliced the top tax rate by 20 and 14 percentage points, respectively, in the first year. The Bush plan cuts the top rate by less than 2 percentage points. We're just not comparing apples to apples here."
* Education: "You teach a child to read and he or her will pass a literacy test," says Mr. Bush. But conservative governors are already protesting the Texas model of having uniform tests statewide. The result could be a toothless bill and the collapse of any coherent standards that might measure which schools are leaving kids behind.
* Faith-based initiative: This scheme has already kindled religious wars between Pat Robertson and a trio of religions he accuses of using "brainwashing techniques" and between Jerry Falwell and Islam ("the Muslim faith teaches hate"). As if this weren't enough, the Bush administration point man on this experiment, John DiIulio, has now injected the race card. In a speech defending the initiative, he opened fire on Southern Baptists by chiding "white evangelical churches" for lacking the dedication to community service of "urban African-American and Latino" congregations. Within days, The Washington Post reported that the most controversial part of the Bush package -- direct government funding of religious charities -- might not make it to the Senate for a year. 
* Social Security reform: The buck was passed to a commission, which presumably won't be recommending, as Mr. Bush did in the campaign, that taxpayers play the stock market with their retirement accounts. 
* Foreign policy: No sooner does the secretary of state, Colin Powell, signal administration policy on Iraq and North Korea than Mr. Bush reverses it.
There is one area, though, where the new administration has had unqualified success -- rewarding its financial backers. The coal industry, which gave most of its $3.8 million in soft money to the Republicans, this week scored Mr. Bush's reversal of his campaign promise to regulate carbon dioxide emissions, even at the price of humiliating Christie Whitman, the E.P.A. chief who had vouched for her president's word. The MBNA Corporation, the largest donor to the Bush campaign, is reaping its reward with a "bankruptcy reform" bill that makes it harder for its credit card holders to seek bankruptcy protection but does nothing to regulate its showering of credit cards on Americans (like teenagers) who are likely to fall into debt. U.P.S., which gave 85 percent of its $1.3 million in contributions to the G.O.P., is a conspicuous beneficiary of the White House rollback of workplace ergonomic regulations.
Among the Bush contributors soon to step up to the plate are airlines and the pharmaceutical companies. Don't lose any sleep dreaming about a passengers' bill of rights or lower costs for prescription drugs. 
Will the Terry McAuliffe-led Democrats, who with Hillary Clinton's help now rake in more soft money than the Republicans, at least fight to reform the corrupt intersection of big bucks and politics that produces quid pro quos for Marc Rich and MBNA alike? The test is certainly at hand: on Monday, the Senate at last begins its debate of the McCain-Feingold bill that would take first steps to clean up this system of legalized bribery.
 Up until this week, virtually every Senate Democrat has been on record in favor of reform, but up until now that talk was cheap, since previous G.O.P. Senate majorities always guaranteed the bill's defeat.
"Will the Democrats flip-flop with victory now in sight?" asks Scott Harshbarger of Common Cause. "This is the moment of truth for the Democrats," says another longtime warrior for this cause, Fred Wertheimer of Democracy 21. "The only way the bill fails is if a sufficient number of Democrats abandon it."
The abandonment could take the form of signing on to poison-pill amendments (including those endorsed by President Bush on Thursday) that gut McCain-Feingold's already watered-down provisions, or of seeking cover in a disingenuous "compromise" bill, crafted by Chuck Hagel and rightly dismissed by John McCain as an "affirmation of soft money" rather than a potential ban of it.
"I hope the Democratic Party will stand up and be counted here," says Mr. Harshbarger. Given what we've seen of the Democrats this year, this may be a wish that, like a Gore presidency, can come true only in the Twilight Zone.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JOURNALISM (75%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); WITNESSES (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); AL GORE (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (56%); EVAN BAYH (55%); FRANK RICH (53%) RICH, FRANK; GORE, AL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



440 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Fading Yen Casts a Shadow On Japanese Leader's Visit 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 16 

 BODY:
As President Bush prepares to meet on Monday with Japan's evidently lame-duck prime minister, Yoshiro Mori, the White House is debating whether to allow a rapid devaluation of the yen. 
 Such a move could ease the growing financial crisis in Tokyo but is strongly opposed by the American automotive industry and others that compete with Japan, whose exports would become less expensive. 
 The issue arose this week as the White House tried to turn what was supposed to be a largely symbolic meeting with Mr. Mori into a substantive economic session. 
Mr. Bush and Mr. Mori will issue a communique at the end of their session, but drafts of the statement circulating late this week did not appear to contain any signal to the markets that the world's largest and second-largest economies have a joint strategy for economic growth.
The administration has come to no conclusion on the currency question, which may be beyond its control. But it was revealing that the debate dominated much of the discussion on Wednesday at the weekly lunch of the National Security Council, where Secretary of State Colin L. Powell got a taste of the economic complexities that are likely to plague his efforts to improve the diplomatic and security relationship with Japan.
"We are concerned about the Japanese economy, and it has been a source of meetings with the new team," General Powell told the House Budget Committee on Thursday. Responding to concerns that Bush officials have said they will not "lecture" Japan on the economy, as the Clinton administration did, Mr. Powell added that his was "not a laissez-faire attitude," however.
But the choices facing Mr. Bush are neither easy nor pleasant. 
As Japan's economic outlook has deteriorated, so has the yen: it has dropped roughly 20 percent in the past year, and many analysts say it will continue in that direction. American automakers are already warning that a weaker yen could lead to even worse sales as the prices of Japanese models drop in the American market -- and more layoffs.
While there is no evidence so far that Detroit has been lobbying the White House on the issue, the auto industry has made its views clear.
"The U.S. government should discourage the Japanese government from any further intervention or efforts to drive down the yen," said Stephen J. Collins, the president of the Automotive Trade Policy Council, a lobbying group.
President Bush is acutely aware that his father's political troubles in 1991 and 1992 were rooted partly in the perception that he never got a handle on dealing with Japanese competition at a time of American economic weakness. So is President Bush's chief of staff, Andrew Card, who served as the auto industry's chief lobbyist in Washington for much of the 1990's.
According to administration officials who were briefed on Wednesday's meeting, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, who is the former chairman of Alcoa and very sensitive to the domestic effects of currency movements, strongly opposed letting the yen lose value. 
General Powell and the head of the National Economic Council, Lawrence B. Lindsey, were more open to the possibility, according to two officials who seemed to be neutral on the issue.
Administration officials say Monday's meeting must send a strong message on speeding economic reform and cleaning up Japan's banking system, messages intended more for Japan's bureaucracy than for Mr. Mori, an unpopular prime minister who has hinted that he will soon yield to calls that he resign.
"No doubt the Bush team would have liked a meeting heavy on good will and warm words, but with the recent deterioration in Japan's economy, the message may have to be a little more pointed, especially on the banks," said Lael Brainard, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and President Clinton's adviser on international economic issues. "Japan has few if any easy policy options left, and is unlikely to get a warm reception from the U.S. Treasury on a concerted yen strategy in this environment."
Rick Wagoner, the chief executive of G.M., discussed the question briefly with George W. Bush when the President-elect (as he was then) joined other c.e.o.'s at a meeting in early January. But Mr. Wagoner said in an interview then that the yen was less important than it used to be because Japanese manufacturers have considerably expanded their production here.
Yet Carlos Ghosn, chief executive of Nissan, said in January that each one-yen increase in the dollar's value against the yen was worth 8 billion yen in extra operating profits for Nissan. "There is some slowdown in the U.S. market, it is true, but there is some compensation in the exchange markets," Mr. Ghosn said.
Many of Mr. Bush's foreign-policy aides contributed to a report last October that said it would be unrealistic to expect Japan's current leaders "suddenly to embrace reform." It also noted that Japan's "banking problems have yet to be addressed adequately" and that Tokyo had unwisely relied on "pork-barrel public works projects with little if any potential for fostering long-term growth."
Mr. Bush will not be able to use such blunt words on Monday, at least not in public. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); LOBBYING (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (62%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); LAYOFFS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MORI, YOSHIRO (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (95%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2001 



441 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: The Punch-Card Conspiracy 

BYLINE:  By Gabriel Schoenfeld; Gabriel Schoenfeld is the senior editor of Commentary magazine.

 BODY:
 IBM AND THE HOLOCAUST
The Strategic Alliance Between Nazi Germany and America's Most Powerful Corporation.
By Edwin Black.
519 pp. New York:
Crown Publishers. $27.50.
 AFTER more than five decades and the appearance of innumerable books and monographs on its every facet, is there anything radically new remaining to be uncovered about the Holocaust? According to Edwin Black there is. His "IBM and the Holocaust" drops the bombshell of a revelation that the Nazis, in pursuing the destruction of European Jewry, were assisted in decisive ways by a leading American corporation. 
I.B.M., Black reports, knowingly provided the Third Reich with the technology to identify German Jews in the period 1933-1939. After World War II broke out in Europe, Hitler's plan to exterminate the Jews became a "mission the company pursued with chilling success." Drawing on documents from archives in the United States and across Europe, Black tells the astonishing story of a corporation and a corporate leader, Thomas J. Watson, eagerly conniving with the Nazis as they carried out their murderous program.
This, of course, is an explosive charge, made all the more sensational by the fact that of the major histories on the Holocaust published in the last 50 years, not one so much as mentions I.B.M.'s contribution to the Nazi Final Solution, not even (I believe) in a footnote. The drama is heightened further by the strict secrecy that enveloped Black's book before it was released, a release timed to accompany the filing of a class-action lawsuit charging I.B.M. with profiting from genocide. Not surprisingly, given all this, Black's book has made it into headlines around the world and on to the best-seller lists. 
But how well does Black's indictment stand up to critical scrutiny? Though the evidence assembled in "IBM and the Holocaust" must be evaluated on its merits, it is helpful in approaching it to know something about Edwin Black himself. 
A relevant fact is that when he is not writing about the Third Reich -- the subject also of a previous book -- he writes techno-thrillers, and articles for a variety of popular magazines like Mademoiselle and Redbook, not generally known for their insights into Hitler and the Holocaust. This background is hardly a disqualification for writing intelligently about modern history, but in Black's case it helps to explain a second relevant fact: in "IBM and the Holocaust" he often tells his story not in the subtle hues of genuine scholarship but in the Day-Glo paint of the potboiler. 
Indications of trouble are already visible in the book's early pages, where Black stakes out a number of far-reaching claims that he is unable to sustain, most crucially that Hitler's quest to exterminate world Jewry was "greatly enhanced and energized" by the I.B.M. corporation and its leader. Together, Thomas Watson and Adolf Hitler -- one an extreme capitalist, the other an extreme fascist" -- formed a "technological and commercial alliance that would ultimately facilitate the murder of six million Jews and an equal number of other Europeans." 
But the evidence Black adduces never proves anything of the sort. He shows that under Watson, I.B.M.'s world headquarters in New York conducted business with Nazi Germany from 1933 up to the American entry into the war, and that Watson, a rapacious profit-seeker, even received a medal in 1937 from Hitler for his friendship with the Third Reich -- which he later had to renounce amid considerable embarrassment. By the time war erupted in 1939, I.B.M. technology -- primarily punch cards and the Hollerith machines that tabulated them -- was widely in use by the Germans in the military, the SS, the railways and other key institutions. 
But none of this is a revelation, and Black, in any case, never discusses whether I.B.M.'s trading relationship with the Nazis was thicker or thinner than that of other multinational companies. At the same time, he greatly exaggerates the significance of I.B.M.'s contribution, asserting that, as the war progressed, "eventually, every Nazi combat order, bullet and troop movement was tracked on an I.B.M. punch card system." Every bullet? It is, moreover, simply not meaningful to declare, as Black does, that by 1939 or thereabouts, Germany, using Hollerith machines, "had automated virtually its entire economy." One would not say such a thing even about our own highly computerized economy. 
The key question, in any case, is not whether I.B.M. sold Germany its equipment but whether, as alleged, it made the Final Solution part of its "mission" and whether its relationship with Germany in any way "energized" or significantly "enhanced" Hitler's efforts to destroy world Jewry. On the first point, Black never even attempts to substantiate his accusation -- a scandalous omission considering the gravity of the charge. As for the second, his shaky evidence leads him to oscillate between two completely irreconcilable positions. 
On the one hand, Black argues that I.B.M., through its German subsidiary, "designed, executed and supplied the indispensable technological assistance Hitler's Third Reich needed to accomplish what had never been done before -- the automation of human destruction." On the other hand, he maladroitly hedges, noting that even if Germany had completely lacked I.B.M.'s efficiency-enhancing tools, "the Holocaust would have proceeded -- and often did proceed -- with simple bullets, death marches and massacres based on pen and paper persecution." But if that is so, in what sense were the punch cards and the tabulating machines "indispensable"?
Struggling to force his evidence into a box in which it does not fit, Black ratchets up his rhetoric. We thus read a good many sentences in which punch cards bearing Jewish names are said to be "clicking and rattling" or "thudding" or whooshing "faster and faster" through "the huffing machines of the Third Reich like tiny high-speed mechanized breaths rapidly inhaled and exhaled one time and one time only." Such overblown writing would cause even a techno-thriller to stall and crash to earth.
This is a pity, for Black's genuine though narrowly circumscribed accomplishment is to raise the general question, once again, of how the corporate world dealt with the totalitarian regimes of the past century, and to show, in particular, that there is room for a serious study of I.B.M.'s complicated and by no means innocent relationship with Nazi Germany. This book, however, is not that study. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); GENOCIDE (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (79%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); LITERATURE (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); HISTORY (74%); BESTSELLERS (72%); INDICTMENTS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); CLASS ACTIONS (66%); LITIGATION (64%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

INDUSTRY:  SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; 

PERSON: SCHOENFELD, GABRIEL; BLACK, EDWIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPE (88%)

TITLE: IBM AND THE HOLOCAUST (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



442 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: INTERVIEW; 
Other Side of the Mountain

BYLINE:  By Peter Applebome; Peter Applebome, a deputy metropolitan editor at The New York Times, is the author of "Dixie Rising: How the South Is Shaping American Values, Politics and Culture."

 BODY:
"Keep in mind that I might be late," Diane McWhorter said in a stage whisper when we agreed to meet for lunch, the breakneck cadence, if not quite the accent, sounding a little like the actress Holly Hunter. "I'm whispering to try to fool myself into thinking I'm supposed to be there at 1." Sure enough, she showed up at 1:35, but the conspiratorial aside was revealing in two ways. First, like the air of cheery bonhomie in the voice, the casual theatricality is typically Southern -- not for nothing did McWhorter achieve what she terms "the platonic ideal of white Birmingham girlhood," the presidency of the elite high school sorority Theta Kappa Delta back in 1969. And second, she does, it seems, have a thing about time, as evidenced by the 19 years it took her to write what she first envisioned as a modest memoir about her hometown and its horrific role in civil rights history. 
 "The idea was a little journey home to discover what really happened in my hometown," said McWhorter, who now lives in Manhattan. "I can't remember if it was my agent or publisher who asked how long it would take. And I said, 'I can't imagine working on anything for longer than a year, so let's double it and say two years.' And then two years into it, I didn't even know what it was about." 
 Partly, the vicissitudes of life got in the way. Somewhere between the idea and the execution of "Carry Me Home," she married, had two children, now 9 and 11, and saw various characters in her narrative die off -- or assume they would before she gave birth to the book, her first. "My Uncle Hobart had a heart attack a few years ago," she said. "I called him at the hospital and said, 'Good God, you're not going to die before my book comes out.' And he paused and said, 'I'll never live long enough for your book to come out.' " (As it turns out, he did.) 
But mostly, McWhorter found herself digging deeper and deeper into one of the ugliest periods in American history. She pored through old files and transcripts, searched out aging Klansmen and probed into the intimate connections between the lions of industry -- the Big Mules of Birmingham, Ala., whom she used to see every day at the exclusive Mountain Brook Club -- and the underworld of racist thugs who gave Birmingham the appellation of Bombingham. McWhorter was born in Tupelo, Miss., but her father's roots were in Birmingham, and the family moved back there when she was 5. She was in grade school during the most cataclysmic events of the civil rights era. 
But, as she tells it, for many white residents, the city's torturous battles over integration might as well have been happening far away. Indeed, the most privileged white folks lived (and still live) not just outside town, but on the other side of Red Mountain, in well-heeled Mountain Brook. "We grew up so isolated," McWhorter said. "We always heard that outsiders stirred up all the trouble and then left, and it didn't have anything to do with us nice white folks over the mountain." 
McWhorter wasn't that naive. She knew that her own father, an eccentric who had defiantly exiled himself from his upper-crust roots, was sneaking out at night to play some part -- she was never sure what -- in Birmingham's white resistance to integration. But she sailed through her youth, went north to Wellesley College, eventually got a job at Boston magazine and decided she wanted to be a writer. She said the idea that became her book came to her when she was leafing through a bicentennial history of Alabama, expecting the coverage of her city to be "a salute to the Pittsburgh of the South," only to find an analysis of the role Birmingham's power structure played in trying to thwart Martin Luther King Jr. -- with one of her cousins in the middle of the tale.
That discovery started her on a reporting journey that ultimately allowed her to lay out in excruciating detail the way those at the top and the bottom of the heap in Birmingham, the men in the suits and the old boys who knew their way around a stick of dynamite, worked together to foster an atmosphere of bigotry and brutality that even for its time was almost without equal. She traces that history of violence and division back, not just to race but to money and class, in that the efforts of the city's industrialists to undermine the New Deal and local labor unions led almost inevitably to efforts to maintain segregation. 
"I had certain assumptions," she said. "The first was that the steel industry, through its absentee ownership, used racism to enhance profit, and it turned out to be so much truer than I thought and so much worse than I could have imagined." The book took so long, she said, "because, after a while, I had to know everything." 
But if the big picture became clear, the smaller one remained full of mystery. In the climactic moment of her personal drama, she confronted her father about his role on the dark side of the movement. "Well, you had Klan plus and you had Klan minus," he told her. "We were Klan minus," meaning, more or less, that he and his pals sympathized but weren't part of the violence and terrorism of the time. But what he was doing at night, she still doesn't entirely know. 
And what to make of Birmingham? Eventually, the city's leaders got behind the idea of integration, and Birmingham today has black political leadership and is dominated economically more by its medical center than by steel. The city where the daughters and granddaughters of the Big Mules cheered in gym class when they heard President John F. Kennedy had been shot now feels like a quintessentially American place, part of the conservative suburban majority that elects our presidents. But McWhorter's analysis of what brought the city to give up on segregation is hardly uplifting. "Once the business leadership decided that segregation was bad for business, they changed," she said. "Power does what it does to preserve itself. Segregation ended when the business community finally said it had to go because it was bad for profits."
McWhorter said that it was too early to tell how the book would be received in her hometown. Family members had largely been supportive of her research, though her Uncle Hobart has already disparaged the book in a local newspaper, questioning its portrayals of key figures. Her father, on the other hand, praises it. 
He remains perhaps the biggest mystery of all. In "Carry Me Home," he emerges as a perplexing loner -- one part Jack Kerouac figure, who could have become a radical progressive, one part Klan sympathizer; one part Mountain Brook, one part trailer park. "That was one of the great lessons of the book," McWhorter said. "That you can know less about people who are closest to you, who are most responsible for who you are, than you know about a close friend. I never got to the bottom of what he was doing. But in the course of trying to, I created this book."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tannen Maury) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (74%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (74%); CHILDREN (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (74%); LITERATURE (72%); LITERARY AGENTS (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); HISTORY (67%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

ORGANIZATION: KAPPA DELTA (56%)

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; MCWHORTER, DIANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) ALABAMA, USA (91%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: CARRY ME HOME: BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



443 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 3306 words

HEADLINE: The Final Freedom 

BYLINE:  By Alan Wolfe; Alan Wolfe is the director of the Boisi Center for Religion and American Public Life at Boston College. His new book, "Moral Freedom," from which this essay is adapted, will be published next month by W.W. Norton.

 BODY:
Should I lie or tell the truth? Is my marriage vow binding? Ought I give in when temptation calls? To whom are my obligations strongest? To answer such questions, Americans have traditionally relied on time-tested moral rules, usually handed down by a supreme being, that command obedience and punish defiance. Now we live in an age of moral freedom, in which individuals are expected to determine for themselves what it means to lead a good and virtuous life. We decide what is right and wrong, not by bending our wills to authority, but by considering who we are, what others require and what consequences follow from acting one way rather than another. 
 This country has always experienced freedom, but only recently has it discovered moral freedom. In the 19th century, principles of economic liberty were instrumental in creating a society in which the right to own property, to hire workers and to manufacture and dispose of goods was accepted as the most productive way for a society to create and distribute its wealth. This was followed, in the 20th century, by the spread of political freedom. By century's end, the idea that people had a right to vote and to run for office -- and that such a right could not be denied them on the basis of ownership of property, race or gender -- had become so widely accepted that no society could be considered good unless its political system was organized along democratic lines. 
 Although political freedoms are enormously important, they are restricted to one sphere of human activity: obtaining and exercising political power. The same is true of economic freedom, which, by definition, is limited to such essential, but also essentially mundane, matters like the buying and selling of commodities. Moral freedom involves the sacred as well as the profane; it is freedom over the things that matter most. The ultimate implication of the idea of moral freedom is not that people are created in the image of a higher authority. It is that any form of higher authority has to tailor its commandments to the needs of real people. It cannot be surprising that Americans made a best seller out of a book -- actually three books -- called "Conversations With God."
Even the most traditional Americans have been touched by the spread of moral freedom. Born-again Christians generally do not believe that people should be free to live as they choose, especially when they choose what evangelicals consider sinful: homosexuality, for example, or premarital sex. Yet evangelicals are also people who often reject the religion of their upbringing, opt for start-up churches and prefer to home-school their children, giving them more in common than they realize with gays and lesbians who have redefined marriage and family and founded houses of worship that serve their own spiritual needs. Conservative millionaires may vote Republican because they believe America lost its Christian standards under Bill Clinton, but they probably obtained their millions living by rules of corporate loyalty, equity and honesty that Christians generations ago would have called sinful. 
Moral freedom is so radical an idea, so disturbing in its implications, that it has never had much currency among any but a few of the West's great moral theorists. Even those who made passionate arguments in defense of freedom in general did not extend their arguments to moral freedom. Indeed, the common position among most Western thinkers has been to argue the necessity for moral constraint as a precondition for freedom in all other aspects of life. This was most true of conservatives who justified the received authority of church, prince, law or nature. But it was also true of liberal thinkers like John Locke and Immanuel Kant, for whom liberty made sense only when shaped by pre-existing religious or ethical commandments. Timeless, transcendental, absolute -- morality stood in the sharpest possible contrast to freedom, which was transient, inconsistent and dependent on mere circumstance. Even in America, despite the celebratory individualism of an Emerson or a Whitman, the idea of moral freedom made little sense until very recent times. When Franklin Roosevelt in 1941 announced the four freedoms -- of speech, of worship, from want, from fear -- moral freedom was not among them. When, in 1957, the United States Supreme Court finally got around to talking about sexual freedom -- calling sex "a great and mysterious force in human life," which was "a subject of absorbing interest" -- it did so in the context of upholding a conviction for violating obscenity laws. 
In the 1960's and 1970's, for the first time in American history, a number of thinkers began to take the idea of moral freedom seriously, and enough people paid them attention to mount a significant challenge against moral authority. Reviewing the history of religion in America since the first Spanish and French settlements, the historian Sidney Ahlstrom concluded that "only in the 1960's would it become apparent that the Great Puritan Epoch in American history had come to an end." If nothing is so powerful as an idea whose time has come, the idea of moral freedom, when it finally came, was powerful enough, at least for a time, to sweep all before it.
Because moral freedom is so new an idea, it inevitably arouses opposition. There is a widespread feeling that the legacy of the 1960's has been corrosive to the American social fabric. Disrespectful of established authority, cut off from tradition, unattached to family or faith, Americans, we have been repeatedly told, embraced moral freedom only to experience painful results. To discover whether such charges resonate among Americans themselves, I assembled a research team and spent the last couple of years talking with people from all walks of life about what it means to lead a good and virtuous life. We concentrated on four virtues that have been praised by theologians and philosophers for their moral seriousness: honesty, loyalty, forgiveness and self-discipline. Are critics of our condition right to worry that we no longer believe in the old-fashioned virtues that once made us great? Or should we celebrate the arrival of moral freedom for the same reasons we have come to accept economic and political freedom: society is better off when people decide for themselves the right thing to do rather than have it decided for them by others? 
We need not, and should not, take the thoughts of ordinary Americans as the final word on our condition. But, as the reaction to recent events ranging from the school shootings in Santee, Calif., to the presidential pardons demonstrate, there is moral talk aplenty in America; if talk about morality were only a measure of morality, we would be hearing about a moral surplus, not a moral deficit. The least we can do, before we stand up to preach, is to listen to what Americans have to say. 
'There's nothing like loading a few coffins," a retired Air Force officer told us of his service in Vietnam. "It turned my life around." Now working as a substitute teacher and occasional lecturer outside Dayton, Ohio, he worries that his country recently has become too soft and self-indulgent. "The wonderful thing about democracy and capitalism is that they lead to the good life, as Aristotle would want us to have it," he says. But the problem "is that we tend to lose focus on the virtues," the most important of which are "hard work, dedication and sacrifice."
As much as this man's views resonate with ideas of America's decline from a more virtuous age, his defense of self-discipline was decidedly uncommon among our respondents. "You can be disciplined in a bad way," said one woman in Tipton, Iowa. "You work 70, 80 hours a week, ignoring your family. I don't think that is good self-discipline." Good self-discipline makes room for obligations to others. In a paradoxical way, it also involves obligations to the self. Many people told us that the person who indulges from time to time is more likely to be productive than the obsessive workaholic.
St. Augustine wrote that it is always wrong to lie. But the people with whom we spoke believe that you are under a greater obligation to be honest to a friend than to a stranger -- and that you are under no obligation at all to be honest to someone who is dishonest to you. Honesty is not a one-size-fits-all virtue. Many of the gay men with whom we spoke in San Francisco did not believe in loyalty to their sexual partners, but, determined not to hide their sexual orientation, were among the most passionate believers in honesty. Other respondents felt that there are times when honesty can be a vice. "You know," said a San Francisco therapist, "people say terrible things and then they go, 'Well, I was just being honest."' In her view, a person of good character would rank sensitivity to others higher than honesty to them.
Whatever the virtue, Americans will be more practical than principled. An engineer in Silicon Valley talked about the problem of marital loyalty as if he were tinkering with a stubborn software program: "Is it irretrievably broken or can you patch it up? Was there a basis for the marriage in the first place? Is there a basis for working together as part of a team to move ahead from where you are and ignore the past?" A divorced woman in Hartford believes in forgiveness, not out of a recognition that even sinners may nonetheless be good in the eyes of God, but "because when we don't forgive, it holds us back, it eats away at us." 
As they decide for themselves the best way to live, people can and do consult traditional sources of moral wisdom. Our respondents mentioned not only popular television programs and self-help books but also the example of Jesus Christ, philosophers from Plato and Aristotle to Kant and William James, novelists like F. Scott Fitzgerald, Jane Austen and Alexander Solzhenitsyn and theologians including Teilhard de Chardin and Rabbi Hillel. Still, listening to their reasoning gives a certain credibility to those who argue that contemporary Americans have too much freedom for their own good. Our respondents are guided by subjective feelings more than they are by appeals to rational, intellectual and objective conceptions of right and wrong. They do not think that virtue consists in subsuming their needs and desires to the authority of tradition. Indeed, some of them are not even sure that virtuous is what they want to be. Without firm moral instruction, Americans approach the virtues gingerly. They recognize their importance but reinvent their meaning to make sense of the situations in which they find themselves. 
Just because Americans may be living "after virtue" -- to use the evocative words of the moral philosopher Alasdair MacIntyre -- does not, however, mean that they are living before vice. Both conservatives and liberals see a direct link between the 1960's and now. From the point of view of those aghast at what the 1960's have bequeathed us, one mistake -- the wrong drug or, later, the wrong sex partner -- and life itself could be threatened. From the point of view of those who embraced the social changes of that time, one too many concessions to established institutions of authority, and freedom itself could be sacrificed. Yet for the people with whom we spoke, the 1960's -- understood as a political movement designed to challenge the status quo in favor of revolutionary transformations in lifestyle -- barely exist. Even in San Francisco, despite the fact that we asked people questions about the most morally contentious issues of the day, only a couple of our respondents reflected on what the tumultuous events of those years meant for them and for their country. 
The debate over the 1960's confuses two different phenomena. One is the freedom to choose how to live. The other is the freedom to consider oneself unbound by moral rules. The Americans with whom we have spoken make a pretty clear distinction between choice and unboundedness. The former, they usually insist, is something worth having. And the latter, most of them feel, is something worth avoiding. When Americans think of the kind of moral anarchy and irresponsibility that conservatives associate with the excesses of the 1960's, they do not think about their own lives but about the wild lives of Hollywood celebrities, the self-centered actions of corporations and the dishonesty exhibited by politicians. 
Moderate in economics and politics, our respondents are, for the most part, moderate in morality. The great bulk of them no longer adhere to traditional ideas about virtue and vice, but neither do they live as moral libertines. They do not take their marriage vows as binding under all circumstances and for all time, but they often approach the question of divorce in a morally serious way, reserving it as an option when the price of excessive loyalty is unwanted cruelty toward spouse or child. They are not as loyal as they once were in the workplace, but only after being provoked into that position by extensive, and often ruthless, disloyalty on the part of their employers. In their effort to find balance in all things, they forgive to get on with life but do not forget wrongs done to them and do not relativize away acts they consider evil. 
The concept of moral freedom corresponds to a deeply held populist suspicion of authority and a corresponding belief that people know their own best interest. Historically, populist impulses expressed themselves in politics; Americans distrusted elites, especially those whose power appeared to rest on breeding and connections, in favor of appeals to the common man. Now that same populist sensibility extends to all kinds of institutions; if Americans have learned to obtain a second opinion concerning their medical condition, they are also likely to seek additional opinions concerning their moral condition. As radical an idea as this may seem to those once issued commands and expected to obey them, second-opinion morality seeks to work with, not against, the institutions that make social life possible.
In an age of moral freedom, moral authority has to justify its claims to special insight. Religion offers the best window into the ways such justifications are likely to take place. More and more Americans are redefining God to suit their own tastes and inclinations: Christian ministers who draw upon the Jewish tradition, Reform Jews seeking gender-inclusive language and Americans of all faiths who borrow from every religion and none simultaneously. Whatever emerges from the efforts on the parts of so many Americans to redefine their faith, it is unlikely to resemble Jonathan Edwards's Northampton, the urban parishes of 1950's Catholicism, the revival meetings of Billy Sunday or synagogue life on the Lower East Side.
Yet the desire of so many Americans to have a greater say in the moral choices they make is anything but a bitter renunciation of religion. It is more likely to take the form of a prayer that someone in a position of religious authority will take them seriously as individuals with minds and desires of their own. Far from being secular humanists, Americans want faith and freedom simultaneously. That would seem like an odd combination to Europeans, for whom faith has often meant dogma and freedom has often meant dissent. But it suggests that in America, religious institutions will not break under the weight of moral freedom but bend, as many of them have bent already, to accommodate themselves to the freedom of moral choice to which Americans have increasingly grown accustomed. 
What is true of religious institutions applies to other institutions like schools, if from the opposite direction. In the spirit of the 1960's, educational reformers began to advocate radical changes in education, proposing that schools should stop disciplining students, encourage free-form expression and individual creativity, de-emphasize honors classes and tracking and find new ways to teach such subjects as math and history. In extreme versions of educational reform, moral anarchy rather than moral freedom seemed to be the operating principle, as if schooling itself ought to be abolished. So powerful were the forces behind educational reform that in most established school districts, one version or another of educational reform produced schools that no longer resembled the strict, segregated, vocational and prayer-infused institutions of the 1950's.
Americans today want second opinions about both what and how their children learn in schools. Resisting the influence of liberal school administrators with as much determination as they resist the messages of conservative religious moralists, those who support greater school choice through vouchers and charter schools see freedom of choice as a way of encouraging greater institutional responsibility. Those who continue to support public schooling often express a desire for higher standards and an insistence on the value of teaching character. If American schools move in a more "conservative" direction toward discipline, it will be for the same reasons that churches move in a more "liberal" direction of therapeutic inclusion. After anarchy, moral freedom can be a requirement for re-establishing authority. 
In a time of moral freedom, no institution will be able to stick its head in the sand and pretend that the people who approach it for advice and guidance can be treated as supplicants. Morality has long been treated as if it were a fixed star, sitting there far removed from the earthly concerns of real people, meant to guide them to the true and the beautiful. In the contemporary world, however, people experience in their own lives many situations for which traditional conceptions of morality offer little guidance: what do you do when the pursuit of one virtue conflicts with another? How do you apply moral precepts to situations unforeseen by those religious and philosophical traditions developed for another time and place? Can seemingly unambiguous moral principles be capable of multifaceted interpretations? Faced with such real-world conflicts, many Americans will say, as did one of our respondents in San Antonio: "Somebody can't make you do something you don't want to do. You know, you draw your own guidelines."
No matter how strong their religious and moral beliefs, nearly all people will encounter situations in which they will feel such a need to participate in interpreting, applying and sometimes redefining the rules meant to guide them. Are they somehow less moral if they do? Telling them that they are will cut no ice with a gay couple determined to legalize their union in an era of widespread heterosexual divorce, with women who find that a too-early marriage stultifies their desire to become more autonomous later in life or with religious believers who find that the best way to express one's faith in God is to reject traditional denominations. 
Because we can never know what freedom will bring in its wake, defenders of social order have never been all that comfortable with any of the forms taken by freedom in the modern world. Economic freedom did not create a hoped-for society of independent yeomen but a regime of mass consumption. Political freedom did not result in active and enlightened civic participation but in voter apathy. In a similar way, moral freedom is highly unlikely to produce a nation of individuals exercising their autonomy with the serious and dispassionate judgment of Immanuel Kant. Yet moral freedom is as inevitable as it is impossible. Critics of America's condition insist on the need to return to the morality of yesterday, but it may be better, given its inevitability, to think of moral freedom as a challenge to be met rather than as a condition to be cured.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Brad Holland) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); POLITICS (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); ETHICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); TRENDS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); CHILDREN (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); HOME SCHOOLING (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: WOLFE, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



444 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut; 
Corporate Shift to Close Stamford's Whitney Branch

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
UNLESS a band of angels with deep pockets appears before March 31, the 20-year-old Stamford branch of the Manhattan-based Whitney Museum of American Art will close for lack of funds -- a serious setback for a city that has labored to create an urbane cultural image.
 The museum's financial underpinnings have been weakened in large part by a shift in real estate patterns, from a city with several buildings named for the corporate headquarters they contained, corporations that heavily supported the arts in Stamford, to multitenanted commercial properties that no longer have a company with its name on the door and a feeling of responsibility for promoting culture in the company's hometown. 
 The Whitney branch, priced out of its Stamford quarters, where it had been supported wholly by the former Champion International, and orphaned by its New York parent, which is unable to take on its $700,000 a year operating budget, has become the little museum that couldn't. After an eight-month scramble to find new backing it has come up empty. 
The Stamford Whitney came into being at the invitation of Champion International, whose chairman, Andrew C. Sigler, was a supporter of the New York Whitney. Housed rent-free on the ground floor of the company's headquarters at 400 Atlantic Street, the museum's programs, exhibitions and staff were entirely underwritten by Champion. 
Then last summer Champion was acquired by International Paper, and six months later International Paper sold the building to a real estate partnership of the Landis Group, the River Oak Investment Corporation, both of Stamford, and Allegiance Capital Partners of New York City. 
Rent went from zero to $175,000 a year on a five-year lease that the museum was required to guarantee in order to satisfy the new owners' lenders. At $700,000 a year including $525,000 in operating costs, it would take a commitment of $3.6 million to keep the museum up and running over the five-year period.
International Paper made a fourth quarter payment of $131,400 for 2000 and promised $400,000 for 2001 and $200,000 for 2002, after which its participation would end. Purdue Pharma made what Kelly MacFarlane, a company spokeswoman, called "a generous contribution toward shortfalls last year and this year" and a $5,000 gift in advance of additional undetermined payments. But other corporations in the city were not responsive, museum officials said. 
"Once it became a property in play," said Maxwell Anderson, director of the Whitney in Manhattan, "we were dealing with individuals whose interest was confined to a return on investment." Responding to criticism by Mayor Dannel Malloy and other Stamford officials that the museum had failed to help its satellite during the last eight months, he said: "We're nonprofit, relying each year on support. We have no assets that we can deploy. We worked actively since the summer with Mayor Malloy and a variety of Stamford officials -- the fact that they provide $1 million a year for the Stamford Museum and Nature Center but could not come up with a challenge grant for us was disappointing." 
"We've opened and closed many branches since 1973," Mr. Anderson said, "always conditioned on corporate interests." Branches in Manhattan underwritten by the Equitable Life Insurance Company and Wall Street entities were closed, he said, "as happened with Champion, when corporate interests changed." The Philip Morris branch, across from Grand Central Terminal at 42nd Street and Park Avenue, has remained, paid for by the company. 
Reactions to the closing have ranged from sadness and concern to indifference and disbelief. Frank D. Rich Jr., chairman of F. D. Rich, the company that rebuilt downtown Stamford in the 70's and 80's and was the prime mover in founding the Stamford Center for the Arts, said, "We regret to see that the anchor of the city's cultural spine along Atlantic Street is not going to be able to continue."
HIS brother Robert Rich, vice chairman of F. D. Rich, said: "In the old days I could call Fred Allen at Pitney-Bowes, Peter McCullough at Xerox, Andy Sigler at Champion and put together what would put the Whitney back in business. People who came out here had a vested interest in the city. They all felt involved. The money is in town, but the companies that are here now don't have the same vested interest."
International Paper has leased back the top four floors of the 15-story former Champion building. Other tenants in the building are UBS Warburg, with two floors, and the accounting firm of Arthur Andersen and Abbey National Treasury Services from Britain, with one floor each. Seven floors are still available for rent, as the 4,600-square-foot Whitney space soon may be. 
The departure of the Champion headquarters is the latest in a series of changes that have transformed corporate Stamford in recent years. Purdue Pharma left Norwalk and took over the former GTE building when GTE left Stamford last year. The Singer Building was sold when the company went bankrupt, and it is now multitenanted. And several buildings that F. D. Rich constructed for Continental Oil, General Time, Xerox and American Thread are now about 90 percent occupied by a variety of tenants. 
Juliana Sciolla, director of the Stamford Cultural Development Corporation, distributes about $175,000 of city money to some 39 local arts organizations annually. "The timing for the Whitney was horrible," she said. "We see this worrisome pattern in Stamford of corporate mergers, takeovers and corporations leaving and coming into town." Corporate support in the past year, she said, fell from $1.2 million to $980,000.
Renee Kahn, Stamford's doyenne of art and architectural preservation, commented: "The Whitney was the only place in town that you could see art that I don't consider suburban. There's room for more than the Stamford Museum and Nature Center." 
The Museum and Nature Center, a diverse institution focused on history and science as well as art, mounts exhibitions "that are accessible to the broadest public" said its director, Sharon Blume, "including those who have little experience with art." 
The Whitney's ability to mount world-class exhibitions at its satellites has been one of its strengths, said Leon Golub, a noted New York-based American artist who has exhibited at the Stamford branch. "It's a great pity," he said, "to see the huge centralization that is going on in the megamuseums in major international cities. The decentralization that the Stamford Whitney represents -- having the arts available in your own community -- is crucial." 
Sacia, the Southwestern Connecticut Area Commerce and Industry Association in Stamford, was approached by Cynthia Roznoy, director of the Stamford Whitney, to use its influence in rallying the support of area corporations. The response was disheartening. Christopher Bruhl, Sacia's director, said: "When an institution like the Whitney has an appendage in which the Whitney's core collection and curatorial staff are not present, it's worthwhile as long as it's funded by some other source. To suddenly drop it into the lap of the community suggests it would be the highest priority. It isn't. We are 40 minutes from Manhattan and from Yale, 30 minutes from the Neuberger in Westchester."
The Whitney has not demonstrated that it has a commitment to the Stamford branch "as a vital part of their organization," he said. "They should have searched for alternatives. The Whitney is a loss, but it's an appendage, it's not the global treasure that the Whitney in New York is."
Ms. Roznoy's attempt to recruit Mayor Malloy as an advocate for the museum was also unavailing. "We would rather the Whitney stay," Mr. Malloy said, "but we are not in a position to be a supporter. The need for the Whitney to raise $700,000 just for the first year has been condensed into too short a period." Ms. Roznoy has not succeeded in making contact with Stamford's state legislators or Gov. John G. Rowlandabout state grants to the arts, distributed through the Connecticut Commission on the Arts. 
Allen Hoffman, the commission's liaison to the State Legislature, said: "No one in Stamford seems to care whether the Whitney goes or not. There should be substantial support from the Stamford community. I can't believe if they thought about it twice they would let this asset simply fade away." 
He suggested a meeting among state, municipal, corporate and museum officials "to be held in the commission offices," he said, "for the purpose of seeking a solution." 
Philanthropic activity in some Stamford companies is moving in other directions. "UBS Warburg," according to Irene Korin, senior executive of Stamford's Office of Economic Development, "said they are not contributing to anything but computers and education, and GE Capital contributed around $11 million in a joint venture for a computer lab and other technological purposes at UConn. They don't realize that existence without exposure to the arts is one dimensional. A world full of computer nerds? There's more to life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cynthia Roznoy, director, in Stamford branch of the Whitney Museum. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) Map of Conneciticut highlights 400 Atlantic Street, Stamford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PAPER MILLS (79%); CHARITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (70%); PHILANTHROPY (60%) RENTING AND LEASING; PHILANTHROPY; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

COMPANY: CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART (STAMFORD, CONN); CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP; INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (56%) SIC2621 PAPER MILLS; 

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (50%) CHARLES, ELEANOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%) STAMFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



445 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: First Major Residential Conversion in 15 Years; 
Rentals for Downtown Newark

 BODY:
After sitting vacant for a decade, one of Newark's big old office buildings is to be turned into rental apartments, providing the city's downtown with its first major residential conversion in 15 years.
 The 10-story structure at 9-15 Clinton Street, built in 1906, is to be reshaped into 63 one- and two-bedroom loft-style units, and its Beaux Arts-style buff brick and limestone facade is to be restored. There will also be 6,000 square feet of ground-floor retail space. 
 The building is part of the Four Corners Historic District, a 22-block downtown area that includes many of Newark's important buildings, from 18th-century churches to 20th-century skyscrapers. The Clinton Street structure is among the first of the tall steel office buildings that rose in New Jersey's largest city. 
Mayor Sharpe James said that the building's conversion would "provide a much-needed residential aspect to our downtown redevelopment efforts" and help turn Newark into "a 24-hour city."
The project, Clinton Street Lofts, was approved by the city earlier this month and is to be done by the Regan Development Company of Yonkers. The company was given a $2.9 million low-interest loan from the state for the conversion, which is to cost $9.6 million, said Larry Regan, its president. 
The loan is part of the state's two-year-old Downtown Living program to help finance new market-rate housing in New Jersey cities. So far the state has awarded $14.4 million in loans to seven projects that are to generate some 700 rental apartments, according to the state's Department of Community Affairs, which administers the program.
In addition to Clinton Street Lofts, Mr. Regan's company is renovating an eight-story residential building at 39-41 Lincoln Park, 10 blocks from the downtown core, turning it into 18 rental units.
Mr. Regan said the state loan for Clinton Street Lofts would "hold down development costs and in turn keep rents competitive." 
The units, 642 to 1,175 square feet, are to rent for from $800 to $1,375 a month, he said. Zoning necessary to convert the building to housing was already in place.
Recent additions to the city's downtown, including an arts center and a baseball stadium, and plans for more housing "made us comfortable, and the project viable," Mr. Regan said, adding that it would not have been the case just three years ago. 
The conversion, he said, is expected to draw young professionals who live or work in the city, including professors and students at the city's five institutions of higher education. The project's architect is Mikesell & Associates of Newark. 
All the units will have 10-foot-high ceilings, and building-wide amenities will include an exercise room and doormen. Work on the conversion is to begin by June and take a year to complete, Mr. Regan said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: For Clinton Street building, 63 units. (Jeff Zelevansky for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ZONING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); RELIGION (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (70%); APPROVALS (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); BASEBALL (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (60%) HOUSING; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



446 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property; 
The Office Market Is Feeling the Economic Jitters

BYLINE:  By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
JITTERS from the gyrations of the stock market and the uncertain economic outlook for the country appear to be finding their way into the market for office properties in New York, real estate executives report. They say that the pace of leasing deals has slowed as prospective tenants reassess their space needs and that properties outside the central business district in Midtown have seen an erosion in pricing.
Nobody is panicking. The overall vacancy rate in Manhattan is between 5 and 6 percent, still well below the 9 to 10 percent that is considered an equilibrium market. And rental rates in core areas are firm. But the euphoria of the last few years appears to be gone.
 "Economic pessimism seems to be spreading to the commercial real estate market," said Mary Ann Tighe, vice chairwoman of Insignia/ESG, the brokerage and services company. One indicator is that more space is coming onto the market, mostly via subleases, than is being removed by direct leases, a condition known as negative absorption. 
 "We have negative absorption in all three submarkets for the first time since October 1998," she said, referring to the first two months of this year. Citing the negative-absorption figures area by area, she said: "There was 1.4 million square feet in Midtown, 1.2 million in Midtown South and 500,000 in downtown."
Robert L. Billingsley, executive vice president of Colliers ABR, another brokerage and services company, said that "we began to see a slowdown in activity and a slowing of the increase in rental rates in the October, November, December quarter."
"And in January and February it was definitely down," Mr. Billingsley said. "It's as if we were going 85 miles an hour and suddenly slowed to 50."
The collapse of numbers of dot-com firms and the shrinkage of others, along with cutbacks at the advertising agencies and other service companies that had grown swollen with dot-com work, are the major reasons for the space being returned to the market, real estate specialists say. And since financial services companies typically lay off large numbers of people when the economy turns down, more space is expected to become available, particularly downtown, where the industry is concentrated.
"A lot of these companies took space in anticipation of growth or as a defensive gesture," said Anthony E. Malkin, president of W & M Properties, an investment and development company. "So it is not surprising that things are getting softer downtown, because the securities industry is the only one it has. If the securities industry gets the sniffles, downtown gets a bad cold."
UNCERTAINTY about the future is leading many companies to put off making decisions about office leases as long as possible, market participants say. "People are on the sideline and there is very little market activity," said James Meiskin, president of Plymouth Partners, which represents tenants. "Companies do not know where the economy is going and whether they are going to have to lay off people. So if they do not have to make hard and fast decisions, they are not doing so."
Mr. Meiskin said the slowdown is giving tenants more negotiating power after several years of a market where landlords were able to dictate terms. He said that while asking rents have shown little movement downward, owners are willing to contribute more toward the cost of interior construction and to extend the period of free rent. "Owners who were offering $20 a rentable square foot in work are now offering $35 a square foot," he said. "Nine months ago the free rent period was one month. Now it is three to six months, in addition to construction time." 
Tenants who have the luxury of time to make a decision on whether to move or renew a lease are best off waiting, because some bargains may be coming to the market, said Peter Pattison, who runs a real estate advisory business under his name. "The market has peaked and is due to come down considerably in the next six months," he said.
He said cutbacks in the financial services industry could have a major impact on the office market in Manhattan. If a big financial services company "cuts 10,000 people, that throws about 2 million square feet of space back on the market," he said. "That is a lot of space."
Mr. Meiskin, the tenant broker, said that some of his clients were estimating that 3 million to 5 million square feet of space would come back to the market as a result of layoffs and cutbacks over the next year.
"Demand is evaporating in places like Midtown South and downtown, even if a lot of owners don't want to admit it yet," said Joseph T. Palombi, executive vice president of Trinity Church Real Estate, a major landlord in the Midtown South area.
He said about 500,000 square feet of the church's 6 million square foot portfolio remains available, much of it upgraded to office space from industrial use over the last five years. He said he was willing to negotiate to fill the space with desirable tenants. "We are not panicking, but we'll deal," he said. 
But some real estate executives say any weakness is confined to Class B and C properties, generally older buildings less well equipped and located than Class A buildings, in places like Midtown South and the far west side of Manhattan. Rental rates and demand for Class A buildings in Midtown remain strong, they say. And, unlike the late 1980's, there is no surplus of newly constructed buildings to overhang the market.
"I don't think we are going to see a significant drop in asking prices in Midtown," said Allan B. Rothschild, a senior vice president in charge of the New York office of CB Richard Ellis, a brokerage and services company. "Although the pace of transactions has slowed somewhat, we recently concluded one in Midtown where there were three backup bidders."
He added that there is so little space available in prime buildings in Midtown that landlords have little incentive to lower their prices or offer more attractive terms.
Statistics, of course, tend to lag a changing market, but figures published by Colliers ABR for the month of January tend to back this assessment of the situation in Midtown. The vacancy rate for Class A properties in Midtown fell to 4.7 percent in January, down from 4.9 percent in December and 5.8 percent a year earlier.
The same report noted that asking rents for these properties stayed essentially flat at $65.34 a square foot a year, 10 cents a foot below the December average.
FOR all of Manhattan, the vacancy rate for Class A buildings fell to 4.3 percent in January, down from 4.5 percent in December and 6 percent a year earlier. Asking annual rents increased to $60.08 a square foot, up from $58.53 a square foot in December and $49.11 a square foot in January 2000.
Barry Gosin, the vice chairman and chief executive of Newmark & Company Real Estate, a brokerage and management company, described the market as "relatively solid, because the amount of people let go is still small." He said that unlike the late 1980's, when layoffs and vast amounts of empty space drove rental rates down sharply, the current situation more closely resembles the early 1980's.
"The market has flattened out the way it did in 1982, and is likely to remain flat for several years as it did then," he said.
Although demand has softened on the West Side and in Midtown South, he said the situation varies on a building-to-building basis. "It is the marginal product that is being affected as tenants opt for a better product in this kind of market," he said. Space in the Chelsea Market building between Ninth and 10th Avenues and 15th and 16th Streets remains strong, he said, despite its location away from the Midtown core.
Josh N. Kuriloff, an executive vice president of Cushman & Wakefield, the brokerage and services company, said: "There has been a slowdown in demand, but there has been no increase in supply to drive up vacancy rates. The euphoria is out of the market and we are back to basics."
Those basics, he added, include locations close to public transportation, shopping, restaurants and other amenities. He said that far west side locations, such as the Starrett-Lehigh building at 26th Street and the West Side Highway, are likely to experience a sharp dropoff in demand.
"Using shuttle buses to get to public transportation makes no sense," he said. "I did not understand it during the euphoria and I do not understand it now."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Allan Rothschild of CB Richard Ellis says he does not anticipate a significant drop in Midtown asking rents. Mary Ann Tighe of Insignia/ESG says that economic pessimism is spreading to the office market. (Left, Carol Halebian for The New York Times; Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REAL ESTATE 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



447 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1927 words

HEADLINE: The Man Who Could Not Say No Cries Uncle 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER 

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY 

 BODY:
IT was not supposed to end this way for the man named Gulotta. The name alone meant royalty in Nassau County for two generations. When Thomas S. Gulotta left his job as county executive it was supposed to be for higher office, not because his career had unraveled.
 And yet, here was Mr. Gulotta, tan and trim at 56, bowing out before his time. Here he was, seated at his wooden desk in his fourth-floor office on Tuesday, with a glass of water in one hand and his wife Betsy's hand in the other, surrounded by reporters who were in turn surrounded by the knickknacks he had collected over 14 years in office, the antique picture frames, a photo of John Marshall on the wall that he had used as a mirror to straighten his tie, a digital clock inscribed with a quote by Pericles: "Be ruled by time, the wisest counselor of all." 
 Mr. Gulotta, who had once said he believed that timing can be everything in life, was here, tinged by sadness, to say it was time for him to go. 
"With every chapter in your life that closes, a new chapter opens," Mr. Gulotta said after the television cameramen turned off their lights, which had always made his gold cufflinks, his pinky ring, his silver hair shine so brightly. "I look at this with mixed emotions, but I am comfortable with the decision that I made."
In the hours after Mr. Gulotta delivered his eight-minute address, pundits who had both loved and vilified the man were writing his political obituary: so much promise, yet so many flaws. Gifted with the people, yet cursed by failed economic policies that were derided by critics as Gulottanomics.
"He epitomized the failings, the arrogance and the laziness of unchallenged power," said Robert P. Zimmerman, a Democratic National Committee member who lives in Great Neck. "He defined government through token gestures and political gimmicks. And after you've given a citation to everyone with no cavities in the neighborhood, people want substance and vision in their elected officials."
It was the same complaint countless members of his own Republican Party had hurled at Mr. Gulotta since the county's multimillion-dollar budget deficits, plunging credit ratings and mammoth debt began setting off alarms 18 months ago.
His departure, said Joseph N. Mondello, the chairman of the county Republican committee, is the end of an era in what is perhaps America's quintessential suburban area, home of Levittown and strip-mall shopping, Gold Coast mansions and single-family houses filled with former Democratic urbanites who fled the city and joined the ranks of Nassau's Republican machine and its promise of a better life.
The question now is whether the party, known for its almost Chicago-style patronage system and ironclad rule, will be purged by Mr. Gulotta's exit or if an angry electorate will continue to punish it in November.
"While there are those who may take issue with some of his policy decisions, it is clear to me that he wanted the best for Nassau County," Mr. Mondello, originally from Brooklyn, said of Mr. Gulotta in a statement that belied all of the venom of their longstanding rivalry. Mr. Mondello said he hoped history would view Mr. Gulotta favorably. Clearly, it was a legacy Mr. Gulotta once seemed likely to build. 
Thomas Stephen Gulotta was born in Oceanside on April 27, 1944. He played stickball in Lynbrook and wore a child's three-button suit when his father, Frank A. Gulotta Sr., a war hero, was sworn in as district attorney and Nassau's first Italian-American elected official.
Though his mother, Josephine, wanted him to play piano, young Tom Gulotta was tone deaf. Instead, he was elected by one vote as student president at Malverne High School, studied ancient history at Trinity College in Hartford, toyed with the idea of becoming a doctor and wound up in law school at Columbia, where he missed the war in Vietnam.
Politics was the predictable route. He was first elected to the State Assembly in 1976, as a protege of Joseph Margiotta, Mr. Mondello's predecessor as party boss. It was two terms later that Alfonse M. D'Amato, the presiding supervisor of the Town of Hempstead, won a United States Senate seat and Mr. Margiotta, who traced his ancestry to the same Sicilian village as the Gulottas, picked the 36-year-old Mr. Gulotta to complete Mr. D'Amato's term.
Mr. Gulotta won that seat again, twice, before he stepped in to fill the term of Francis Purcell, the county executive who, in a classic Nassau Republican maneuver, retired to give Mr. Gulotta the advantage of incumbency when he ran for a full term.
Mr. Gulotta was a relentless campaigner, sleeping four or five hours a night and keeping a withering schedule of ribbon cuttings, Eagle Scout ceremonies and retiree dinners, events he was shuttled to in a black four-door 1989 Ford Crown Victoria that had logged more than 176,000 miles as of last October.
Many in the party said they had wanted Mr. Gulotta to run for governor in 1990, a year when two challengers to Mario M. Cuomo split the G.O.P. ticket. And even if Mr. Gulotta had not beaten Mr. Cuomo then, the Republican thinking goes, he, rather than George E. Pataki, would have been perfectly set up to win in 1994.
On Tuesday, as he announced that he would leave office after his term runs out at year's end, Mr. Gulotta ticked off all the positive things he wished he had been given more credit for: lower crime, lower unemployment, rising home values, low office vacancy rates.
"I guess he was a lot more powerful than people realized," joked Herbert D. Rosenbaum, a professor emeritus of political science at Hofstra University, noting that all of those social barometers were holding true throughout the region, if not much of the nation. "He didn't take credit for the crime decline across the country, at least."
Critics said the one thing a county executive undoubtedly has control over is the county books, its budget.
Mr. Gulotta, who took office in 1987, depicted himself as a conservative fiscal manager. But he spent lavishly on police, parks, golf courses and other services residents had grown to expect. Many Republicans said he wanted to be like Santa Claus, giving to all and being loved for it.
"He has done, I think, a good job, in terms of, from our perspective, law and order," said Gary DelaRaba, the president of the Police Benevolent Association, who stood in the back of Mr. Gulotta's office Tuesday. "He put more cops on the street when they were needed the most. He did a lot of innovative deals that he probably didn't get the credit for that he should have, or at least he led the charge that allowed us to succeed. If he had a fault, it was a fault that he didn't want to raise taxes. Expenses go up in everybody's household. What are you going to do?"
Once, early on, Mr. Gulotta had tried to cover those costs, when he proposed a 25 percent property tax increase to close a deficit in 1992. But Mr. Mondello and others rejected it, and Mr. Gulotta was scalded by a close re-election fight the next year.
From then on, his budgets avoided the slightest increase in the general tax rate -- an ailment Judith A. Jacobs, the Democratic presiding officer of the County Legislature, once referred to as Mr. Gulotta's "post-traumatic-tax-increase syndrome."
In lieu of taxes, a string of fiscal gimmicks took hold: using one-time revenues, like money from the sale of a hospital, for example, to pay continuing costs; borrowing $100 million a year to repay homeowners and merchants who successfully challenge their property tax assessments; underestimating costs, like overtime for correction officers; and overestimating revenues, like those from the sales tax.
To hear Phoebe B. Goodman, the executive director of the Nassau Citizens Budget Committee, tell it, it is not all Mr. Gulotta's fault. Yet, she said, the costs of government did not stop rising, and Mr. Gulotta's budgets left many questions unanswered.
"If I went to spent $1,000 on clothing, you want to know what I am going to spend it on, what I'm going to use it for," Ms. Goodman said. "Is it just for me? Is it for the whole family? Is it for five years or three weeks? And all of these things that you would like to know to tell if it is a wise expenditure or not, you could not find in his budgets. Ever. It was not a planning tool."
Mr. Gulotta once said he and his fellow Republicans "were a team protecting the taxpayers." And he blamed them for accusing him "of dropping the ball and the team is scrambling when we should be pulling together to reach the goal."
But that is all behind him now. There will be plenty of time for analysis and talk of legacy. His future is wide open, and he has a $2.5 million campaign war chest that he can use for any political cause he sees fit. But when asked about specific plans, he invoked the words of his father.
"He said, 'Never gear your decisions by what the next step might be,' " Mr. Gulotta said. "He said, 'Gear your decisions by what you believe is in the best interest of the people that you are serving.' "
Many this week gave Mr. Gulotta credit for his decision. They said at least he was not run out of office, like Mr. D'Amato, former Mayor Edward I. Koch or former Governor Cuomo. Others credited him for showing class in announcing his exit.
"He did not do it in a Nixonian way," said Lisanne Altmann, a Democratic legislator. "He did it with grace, and I give him credit that way. There was no self-pity. I am sure he was wondering what his dad would think."
By all accounts, his father loomed large in his life. He was there when Mr. Gulotta faced his first election for county executive, in 1989, but he was terminally ill. The 82-year-old man was confined to a hospital bed in the living room of the family home, on Walnut Street in Lynbrook. But he kept by his bed a calendar.
"I would try to stop by the house, every day or every other day, to offer him some encouragement," Mr. Gulotta said recently. "And I could see on the calendar that each day he was crossing off one day at a time until Election Day.
"And although we didn't talk about death, he kept saying to me, 'I just want to be here to see you elected.' And I feel very fortunate he was able to share in the joys of that victory. I know he had a great deal of pride. And within a month and a half after that, he passed away."
In 1997, his last election, Mr. Gulotta's wife, Betsy, asked him to make it his last. Last weekend, he made her happy when they decided it would be. Now, he said, he wants to travel the country with her and their three children.
One night last October, the couple went to a movie, "Remember the Titans," at the Bellmore Playhouse. They walked out hand-in-hand and went to the Apollo Diner, in East Meadow. Over coffee, they told how they met.
She was from Tarrytown, and working at the Museum of Natural History. He was at Columbia at the time. Each, led by friends, wound up at the same mixer in the city.
"As soon as he walked in the door, I saw him standing there against the wall, over on the other side of the room," Mrs. Gulotta said. "And I am trying to figure out, 'Well, how am I going to meet that guy over there.' "
For Mr. Gulotta, "it was love at first sight." Tom made his move when Betsy went for a glass of beer. He reached around her waist and put his cup next to hers. "Would you please fill my cup, too?" he said.
"And that was it," she said.
Later, they went up to the roof, and he gave her his jacket. When they left the mixer, he walked her part of the way home. But before they parted, he said, "I bet you don't remember my last name."
But she did. "Gulotta."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas Gulotta with his father, Frank, as the son became county executive in 1987. At left was Joseph Mondello, the county G.O.P. chief. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times); Mr. Gulotta leaving the lectern after addressing the Nassau County Legislature about county employee layoffs in December 1999. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. 8); GRIP-AND-GRIN -- public appearances such as this Freeport event in the 1980's were Thomas S. Gulotta's stock in trade. But his personal charm did not pay Nassau's bills. (pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (85%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); SUBURBS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PATRONAGE; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; CREDIT 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: GULOTTA, THOMAS S; BAKER, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NASSAU COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



448 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 217 words

HEADLINE: Glen Cove to Wall St., by Water 

 BODY:
Long Islanders who live on the North Shore and work on Wall Street will have a new commuting option in mid-May: a high-speed commuter ferry from Glen Cove to Manhattan.
 On Tuesday, Mayor Tom Suozzi of Glen Cove announced the Island's first high-speed ferry service to Manhattan -- a 45-minute trip from Glen Cove to Pier 11, a block from the New York Stock Exchange. 
 "This is both a major development in the city's Waterfront Revitalization project and an asset for the region," said Mayor Suozzi, who recently announced his decision to run for Nassau County Executive this fall. 
An excursion ferry from Glen Cove to New London, Conn., and to Martha's Vineyard, off the Massachusetts coast, during the summer is now operated by Fox Navigation.
Based on the 30-year agreement between Fox and Glen Cove, the city's Industrial Development Agency will construct a boat basin, ferry-terminal building and parking lot, giving Fox the exclusive right to operate the commuter ferry.
In return, the company will pay a license fee of $1 million over two years and will pay a facility use fee of 5 percent of every ticket sold. Estimates are $20 to $25 for a round-trip ticket. The Glen Cove agency will own the permanent ferry terminal, with Fox having the option to buy it by the end of the year for $4 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (93%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); COUNTIES (72%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (56%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



449 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: Cisco Is Building Corporate Campus Outside Boston 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE 

DATELINE: BOXBOROUGH, Mass. 

 BODY:
THIS erstwhile farming community of 5,000 is morphing from apple-picking country to a development center for the latest computer data networking equipment. The driver for the transformation is Cisco Systems Inc., the world's leading maker of networking equipment, which is building a $250 million, 1.2-million-square-foot office and research and development campus on two sites here.
 The campus, which the company calls the New England Development Center, could double the amount of commercial space in this 10-square-mile town on Greater Boston's outer beltway, Interstate 495; bring in about 3,000 jobs; fatten the tax rolls; and add 150 acres to the town's reserve of open space. Coupled with a 674,000-square-foot manufacturing plant that Cisco opened in October in Salem, N.H., and almost 700,000 square feet of space it is developing in neighboring Littleton, it forms the base of Northeast operations for the company, which has revenues of $20 billion. 
 Some New Englanders may be known for their frosty temperaments, but officials of little Boxborough radiated considerable warmth to close the deal with Cisco. "Boxborough's been one of the friendliest communities to work with," said Christine Garvey, Cisco's vice president for worldwide real estate. The two sites here have the capacity for as least another 500,000 square feet of commercial space, and the town agreed to give the company a 15 percent property tax break over 20 years. "The tax arrangement was even more welcoming," she added.
A week ago, however, the company announced plans for companywide cutbacks, including the elimination of up to 5,000 jobs, which could result in a retreat on its plan here. A spokesman said that the company was "still evaluating where reductions will be" and that in general its difficulties "may mean we'll adjust the scale or timing" of a project. 
The largest segment of the New England Development Center -- seven buildings on 370 acres -- is devoted to research and product development, areas in which the company does not intend to scale back, according to statements made a week ago by the chief executive, John T. Chambers. Already the foundations are in for six buildings on the site, and the steel is up on two. 
According to Ariane Mahler, a securities analyst for Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, Cisco needs this project, and with about $7 billion in cash, can afford it. Since the campus will bring together 11 companies in the region that Cisco spent $9.9 billion to acquire since 1994, "its efficiencies could save them money in the long run," she said. "They don't have a cash-flow problem, and given the environmental problems and higher costs of developing in California, they need this."
William Backlean, an analyst for SunTrust Equitable Securities, added: "Technology isn't dead; it may just be delayed a little. New England has gone through cycles before." Indeed, much of this town's existing commercial space, about 830,000 square feet, was developed in the 1980's by companies that have since closed operations here: Digital Equipment and NEC.
DESPITE the current uncertainties, Cisco chose Boxborough for reasons likely to outlast this downturn. Indeed, the fact that it must build six-foot-high underground tunnels with skylights for migrating Blandings turtles that cross the site hardly fazed it. In expanding near its headquarters in San Jose, Calif., Cisco has encountered lawsuits and referendums seeking to protect burrowing owls and tiger shrimp that have delayed its development efforts. "The scale of ease here is better than we experienced for many California sites," Ms. Garvey said.
Of approximately 17.5 million square feet of space the company currently occupies, about 10.5 million is in Silicon Valley; 2.5 million in Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; 1 million in Richardson, Tex.; 3 million in Europe; 250,000 in Japan; and 200,000 in Israel. According to the current plan, the company's New England projects will add 2.5 million square feet to the total. 
A major lure of this quaint town with its whitewashed church, stone walls and antique one-room schoolhouse is its location in the Massachusetts technology corridor. Populating a quadrant that radiates from Boston about 40 miles north to New Hampshire, west to I-495 and south to Hopkinton on the Massachusetts Turnpike are scores of young, small technology companies that are developing the new products and cultivating the engineering talent that could fuel growth at Cisco.
Furthermore, the region's top-flight universities, solid core of venture capital firms financing technology start-ups and deep pool of skilled labor are Cisco's lifeblood. Sweetening the mix, it costs about half as much to develop a campus in suburban Boston as in Silicon Valley. Last summer, Cisco paid $15 million for 508 acres here and $16 million for its 90 acres in Littleton.
Cisco is not alone in rediscovering New England's charm. In the last few years, venture capital firms have invested about $6 billion a year in companies in the Massachusetts technology corridor. At the end of 2000, the 70 million square feet of office and research and development space there had a vacancy rate of about 4 percent, net new space leased of 4.5 million square feet and gross asking rents ranging from the low $30's a square foot annually to the low $50's. 
Currently in the corridor, buildings with about four million square feet are being developed for multitenant use with 60 percent of the space preleased, while another five million square feet is being developed by technology owner occupants. The roster of those building in the area includes Sun Microsystems, Sycamore Systems, EMC, Lucent Technologies and Oracle.
"What these big gorillas see here is access to quality labor, plenty of electric power reserves and space that's half the cost of California," said Jim McCaffrey, a partner at Boston-based Meredith & Grew Oncor International Inc., a real estate services firm. 
They have also found large parcels of land that they can purchase for projects of one million to two million square feet. Given the national slowdown and the volatility in the technology industry, land ownership means companies like Cisco can adjust the pace of development without being the captive of a developer.
"The big question for Cisco is, where will they find the workers?" said Len Owens, a partner at McCall & Almy Inc., a Boston-based real estate advisory firm. With the unemployment rate in Massachusetts at only 2.4 percent in January, technology companies still find it challenging to attract and retain workers.
BUT Cisco is confident that its central location in Boxborough will be an easy commute for its current regional work force of about 2,600 and will attract others leaving defunct dot-coms, Ms. Garvey said.
Last July, Cisco purchased the 90 acres in Littleton, where it is planning to put up three buildings with a total of 640,000 square feet, and two sites here. One is a 138-acre parcel that had a 277,000 square foot building on it, which the company renovated and occupied in January. Last September, construction began on its major parcel, the 370 acres here just off I-495 that will have seven buildings and cost from $200 million to $300 million to build, according to Ms. Garvey. Cisco is financing the development itself.
Here, Cisco will relocate the 11 companies it has purchased. The complex, which was designed by the Cambridge-based ADD Inc., features 900,000 square feet of two- to four-story red brick, aluminum and precast concrete buildings set into the wooded site traversed by walking paths and recreational amenities. The internal systems will have two to three times the usual capacity for electric power and data connections of normal office buildings. 
Early last year, Cisco presented its plan to the town, said Natalie Lashmit, the town administrator. In the late 1980's, Boxborough had rezoned the land on its border with the town of Harvard for commercial use. Last spring, residents decided at town meetings that they would prefer to have one large occupant on the site rather than several smaller ones to more easily resolve issues like redirecting traffic and installing new underground utility lines on Cisco's campus. The town will also get 154 acres of open space, including the 60 acres for the turtles and 10 acres for recreation facilities like jogging trails and a soccer field.
Already, residents are seeing the upside of this massive project. Their tax bills have dropped about $50 on a average bill of $5,000; and residential real estate prices have increased about 10 percent and commercial prices 15 to 25 percent, she said. Meanwhile, Ms. Lashmit said, "Residents with house lots are sitting on them to see what happens."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The plans for Cisco's New England Development Center campus include seven buildings on 370 acres. (ADT Inc.) Map of Massachusetts highlighting Boxborough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); PROPERTY TAX (74%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (95%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (80%); NEW ENGLAND DEVELOPMENT (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CISCO SYSTEMS INC 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (80%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (80%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (80%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%) SIC3577 OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT; 

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (57%) DIESENHOUSE, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) BOXBOROUGH (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



450 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: DEVELOPMENT; 
On the Waterfront

BYLINE:  By ROBERT WORTH 

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
PLANS to renovate this city's industrial waterfront on the Hudson River have come and gone like passing barges since the 1960's. Despite its spectacular views of the Palisades and proximity to New York City, the half-mile strip of shoreline has remained mostly vacant, thanks in part to the city's lasting political and image problems. 
 Now the city is trying again. It has reached a critical point in a $200 million public and private effort to transform the waterfront and adjacent downtown area from an unsightly industrial relic into a magnet for businesses and commuters. 
 "After decades of talking about it, the waterfront is finally becoming everything it could and should be," said Mayor John D. Spencer, who has made reviving the area a centerpiece of his five years as mayor. 
Next month, a private developer is expected to begin construction on Hudson Park, a $55 million project near the water's edge that will include two towers on either side of Main Street with 266 apartments and about 22,000 square feet of office and retail space. The developer, Collins Enterprises of Old Greenwich, Conn., has an option to build another 250-unit building just north of the waterfront.
Arthur Collins II, the company's president, said the city's willingness to invest in the area was a key factor in his decision. 
"You now have a city that is committed to spending the money to redevelop their downtown, that's the bottom line," Mr. Collins said. 
The city began its current redevelopment effort about five years ago, bolstering the police presence to make the area safer and rezoning it to suit new developers. Since then, it has spent about $110 million in federal, state and local dollars on new construction and rehabilitation, said Jim Pinto, director of the office of downtown and waterfront development.
Work began last month on a 1.5-mile-long esplanade park on the water with trees and a marina, designed by Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Kuhn, the firm that rebuilt Battery Park City and Baltimore's Inner Harbor East. 
This summer, Metro-North expects to begin a $35 million renovation of the train station. The city also hopes to lure commuters with ferry service to Manhattan from the City Pier, which was refurbished five years ago with $2.7 million in federal funds. And to help accommodate new traffic, a building on Hudson Street will be converted into a parking garage and office space.
The city also hopes to revive the entire downtown area, now a low-rent mix of discount stores, tenements and fast-food restaurants. Work has begun on a new home for the city library and Board of Education offices in the old Port Authority building on River Street. The old Trolley Barn building on Main Street will be the site of 37 live/work lofts to be marketed to people working in Internet-related businesses. 
The new plan is expected to create 500 to 700 jobs, and within five years it should create an additional $6 million in sales tax revenue and $2.5 million in property taxes, said Edward Sheeran, executive director of the city's Industrial Development Agency. 
Already, the city's investment has lured private businesses to the area. 
"We took a chance on the city and their commitment," said Joseph Cotter, the president of Hudson View Associates, which has invested $25 million over the past two years on a two-acre industrial complex north of Main Street known as I-Park. 
The complex includes Kawasaki Rail Car Inc., which customizes and installs electronics on subway cars for New York and other cities, along with a number of smaller tenants, and is now about 90 percent leased, Mr. Cotter said.
But downtown's revival "is not a slam dunk," Mr. Cotter said. Although many companies have been eager to take advantage of the area's low commercial rents -- which range from $14 to $18 per square foot -- others are still leery of an area that has been troubled for so long, he said.
And some believe the city's investment is too small. "The current plan is not big enough," and Yonkers needs a longer-range strategic plan, said Leon Shilton, a real estate finance professor at Fordham business school who has studied Yonkers for several years.
To truly turn the area around would require either a major employer, who could invest more in the area, or a much larger investment in high-end housing, which the city cannot afford, he said.
Still, Yonkers does seem to have moved beyond the difficulties that sank its last major redevelopment effort, a 1,850-unit condominium complex called Pierpointe on the Hudson that was proposed in 1979. That project was put on hold when a federal court imposed a moratorium on new construction in 1987 as part of the city's long-running desegregation lawsuit. 
The subsequent collapse of the real estate market doomed the project, though its backers did not finally give up until 1993. Only one building was completed: a 136-unit condominium called Scrimshaw House by the water's edge off Main Street. The building is now fully occupied, after many years with vacancies when the market values of the units were declining, said Charlie Meyer, the treasurer of the building's condominium board.
And the arrival of the Collins apartments could inject new life into the downtown economy, said Robert Yaro, executive director of the Regional Plan Association. "Residential always has to come first," he said. "It may take a while before it reaches critical mass, but I'm pretty confident Yonkers will make it." 
The building should have no trouble drawing tenants, thanks to the current shortage of apartments in Manhattan and Westchester, said Susan Gombocz, a relocation counselor with Houlihan/Lawrence Relocation Management. Rents at Hudson Park will average $2,150, Mr. Collins said.
Some local advocates have argued that the city has not done enough to include residents of the downtown area, many of whom are low-income minorities, in its plans. 
"We're quite frankly concerned about how this gentrification is going to impact the community, and the extent to which displacement of families could occur here," said Leonard Buddington, the president of the Yonkers chapter of the N.A.A.C.P.
But Symra D. Brandon, a city councilwoman whose district includes the waterfront and downtown, said that she expected the new development to benefit everyone in the area, and that only 30 to 40 people would be displaced.
"For there to be progress, there will have to be some displacement," she said. "This is the closest to a real development we've ever come."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A view of the area leading to the Yonkers pier, a map showing downtown redevelopment plans and a rendering of the riverfront housing project known as Hudson Park. Construction is to begin next month. In addition to apartments renting for more than $2,000 a month, it will include office and retail space. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times) Drawing (Do H. Chung & Partners) Map of Yonkers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); ZONING (79%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); POLICE FORCES (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); RETAILERS (66%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (66%); PORT AUTHORITIES (60%); FERRIES (60%); FAST FOOD (60%) HOUSING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

ORGANIZATION: COLLINS ENTERPRISES 

PERSON: WORTH, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%) YONKERS (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



451 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2896 words

HEADLINE: The Victorious Home Buyer's Final Lap 

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
AFTER several months of searching for a home, Tamara and Nicholas Lauritano found what they wanted in Branford, Conn.: a 2,000-square foot condominium with a living room, dining room, family room and two and a half baths. So the newly married couple, both 30 years old, visited a realtor, signed a contract to buy the home, submitted an application for a mortgage, retained a lawyer, arranged for a house inspection and notified the landlord of the date they planned to vacate their apartment in West Haven. 
 As first-time home buyers, little did they know what could go wrong -- and often does -- in the last lap of the process. 
 From the moment they strike a deal with sellers to the final handshake at the closing, buyers must run a gantlet of lawyers, real estate brokers, mortgage lenders, surveyors, inspectors and insurers. The lucky ones may encounter nothing worse than unexpectedly high closing costs, but the unlucky few may confront everything from serious plumbing problems in their new homes to not-so-sophisticated financial scams. 
The Lauritanos' close was scheduled for Jan. 15 of this year, two weeks before the couple planned to move out of their apartment and into their new home. But the evening before the closing, as they arrived at what would soon be their home to give it the final once-over (known as a "walk-through"), the sellers broke the bad news.
"They told us there had been an accident the night before," Mrs. Lauritano said. "The upstairs toilet had overflowed, ruining our bathroom on the lower floor and the family room. The place was a wreck. And so were we." Their worries went beyond the physical damage. The Lauritanos stood to lose a special interest rate they had negotiated with their broker that was good only until Jan. 15, their closing date. Otherwise, they could take out a different loan through the broker but at a higher interest rate, or they could look for a different lender altogether. 
The Lauritanos decided to go through with the closing, at which time the distraught couple told their woes to their lawyer, Maggie Sullivan of Stratford, Conn. She promptly negotiated with the sellers' lawyer, and the two of them agreed to withhold $3,500 of the seller's proceeds and put the money in escrow until the repairs were completed satisfactorily.
Because the Lauritanos had to vacate their apartment to allow the new tenants to move in at the end of the month, they had little choice but to move into their new home while the repairs were still being made. 
"They ended up doing beautiful work, and we love our house," said Mrs. Lauritano, a director at TutorTime Child Care Learning Center in West Haven. In addition, the lawyers agreed to compensate the new owners out of the escrow fund for Mr. Lauritano's having to take four days off from his job at Sikorsky Aircraft in Stratford in order to be home during the repairs. 
Still, "I wouldn't wish what we went through on anybody," Mrs. Lauritano said. "It was a stressful experience." 
With 6.02 million homes sold last year, according to Orawin Velz, an economist with Fannie Mae, the nation's largest source of financing for mortgages, it would be an exaggeration, especially in the recent seller's market, to say that the frustration level associated with closing on a home is anywhere near that of finding an affordable home to begin with. But try telling that to Jeffrey Fried, a lawyer in Manhattan, who with his wife, Caryn, a sales engineer for a Manhattan software company, closed four months ago on a split-level house in Jericho on Long Island. 
"After we moved in, I said to my wife, 'We're not moving any more,' " Mr. Fried said. 
Part of that frustration reflected their search for a house, a search that Mr. Fried said probably took them through almost 100 houses. "A lot of times we'd see three houses at night during the week," he said, "and on weekends we'd sketch out the best plan of action that would allow us to see as many as four open houses in a single day." 
But it wasn't just the interminable house hunting that led to Mr. Fried's vow to stay put. Almost as upsetting, he said, was closing day, when all the interested parties were gathered together waiting for everything to be legitimized -- only to learn that the required homeowners insurance policy on their property had not been properly issued.
"The insurance broker had sent it to me dated from November 2000 to November 2000, instead of to November 2001," Mr. Fried said. "I called him to ask him to fax us a valid certificate, but he was at lunch so we had to wait and wait. Finally, at the end, everybody sat around with their hands out, and we wound up handing out checks all over the place."
Most closings, however, even for first-time buyers, turn out to be relatively painless, and even postponed closings are rarely as insurmountable as they appear. "If for some reason they don't close, they wonder about such things as where they're going to sleep that night," Mrs. Sullivan said. "But most of the time things work out smoothly because the parties involved usually cooperate with each other, especially if they keep their egos out of it."
Things went smoothly indeed for Robert Jackson, a nurse practitioner who with his wife, Pamela, a social worker in Westchester County, recently bought a four-bedroom house for themselves and their two sons in Greenburgh, near White Plains. "We didn't know what to expect at the closing," Mr. Jackson said, "but we had heard a lot of horror stories."
One such story was that they could expect to hang around for hours and hours during the closing. Another was that they should take lots of blank checks because closing was going to cost them a small fortune.
"But we were in and out in less than three hours," Mr. Jackson said, "and we only had to write two or three checks." 
Mr. Jackson attributed the relatively painless closing to Jessica Bacal, a lawyer in Katonah, in northern Westchester County. "She drilled us in what to expect," he said, "and she and the seller's attorney had worked out everything before we got there."
STILL, as the Lauritano and Fried experiences show, even under the best of conditions the journey from contract to ownership involves a series of steps that, although intended to insure an orderly transfer, often induce anticipatory Sturm and Drang, especially in home buyers new to the process. 
Those steps include the mortgage application and its approval, the sales agreement, home insurance and title insurance to certify that the property is free of liens and easements. That journey also frequently includes the guidance of a lawyer, a termite inspection and the hiring of a house inspector to comb the property to see if anything needs to be repaired. 
At the closing, where the mortgage lender actually presents the check to the buyer, who then presents it to the seller, the buyer should be prepared to write checks for real estate taxes, the prorated cost of utilities, including oil left in the tank, as well as recording taxes and, in some parts of the metropolitan area (but virtually unheard of in Connecticut) a tip for the "closer." The closer, who is usually an independent contractor (and sometimes a lawyer) hired by by the title company for the closing, is the factotum who helps control the flow of paperwork and thereby helps set the closing's tempo. 
Closing costs in the New York metropolitan area typically run 5 to 7 percent of the purchase price of a home, so the buyer of, say, a $250,000 house should be prepared to part with at least $12,500 at the closing. 
Ms. Bacal, the lawyer whom Mr. Jackson praised for her handling of his house purchase, said she keeps a checklist and gives a copy to her clients so that nothing is overlooked or forgotten as the closing date nears. She added that many real estate brokers are also helpful, because among other things "they tend to help get such things as the electricity, gas and water bills put into the name of the new buyer."
But merely presenting clients with a checklist may not be enough. "Some time ago I told a client to bring checks to the closing for those payments, including the fuel adjustment," Ms. Bacal said. "He brought the checks, but when it came time to write the amount for the fuel adjustment, he said, 'I hope you don't expect me to have money in this account.' When we saw everybody's puzzled look, he said to me: 'You said bring the check. You didn't say anything about having money in the bank to cover it.' " 
Yet buyers and sellers are not the only ones to slip up; the real estate grapevine sags beneath the weight of anecdotes about closing mix-ups. For example, lawyers who forgot to tell their clients to have certified checks at the closing. Or told them the wrong time, day or place. Or the bank officials who scheduled the closing but did not show up themselves.
George Tzimopoulos, a real estate lawyer in Manhattan, told of a client, a lawyer in Pennsylvania, who came to New York to attend the sale of a Manhattan co-op apartment that was part of an estate for which he was the executor. Toward the end of the closing, the bank's lawyer began to distribute checks to the seller, broker and anyone else with a financial interest in the property. 
But when Mr. Tzimopoulos noticed that the check for his client was made out to the wrong person, he requested a corrected check. "When the bank's counsel suggested that the closing be adjourned until the next day, I objected, because he was going back to Pennsylvania that very day," Mr. Tzimopoulos said.
So the bank's lawyer made phone calls until he found a branch that was still open and had somebody there who could issue a new check. Then he hopped into a taxicab, and returned about an hour and a half later with the proper check.
While many steps required to buy a house or a condominium are similar, there are also differences. Buyers of condominiums in Connecticut have five days after receiving ownership documents -- which they must be given before the closing -- in which they can cancel the transaction, Mrs. Sullivan said. "When they do back out," she said, "it's usually because they're not allowed to have animals."
Prospective buyers or their lawyers should examine the condo's financial statements for the last few years, Mr. Tzimopoulos said, and examine the minutes of the board of managers to see if the building requires major repairs or if any lawsuits are pending. 
Purchases of co-op apartments, while basically similar to any other home purchase, have differences whose roots are in the type of housing being acquired. In buying co-ops, the purchase is not of real property but of shares in a corporation that give the owner the right to live in the apartment. 
Those hoping to buy a co-op must present the co-op board with a written commitment for the loan and provide detailed financial and personal data, data on which board members are likely to base their approval or rejection. And they would probably be wise to have the cooperative bylaws and the proprietary lease to the apartment reviewed by a lawyer or someone else familiar with the law governing co-ops.
There is no law in New York, New Jersey or Connecticut requiring a buyer to hire a lawyer or buy title insurance, Ms. Bacal said. "But I wouldn't represent someone who would not purchase title insurance," she said. "It exists to protect the buyer."
Stuart A. Christie, a former real estate lawyer in Manhattan and now assistant director of commercial real estate leasing for Trinity Real Estate, is equally adamant that buyers protect themselves with title insurance. "It took me years to understand that the basic principle of real estate ownership is your right to the property you own," Mr. Christie said. "And title insurance insures that you have that right. If you have title insurance and it turns out that the people who sold you the property don't own it, or if there's there's some other problem with the ownership of the property, you're insured against loss." And unless there is a clear title to the property, he added, "no bank will ever lend any amount of money."
That is also true of additions to a property that for whatever reason are not approved or violate a state or local ordinance. Mr. Tzimopoulos said he had a friend who bought a house in Glen Cove, N.Y., that had a deck in the rear, but it turned out that the deck had not been approved. "But the bank made approval a condition of making the loan," Mr. Tzimopoulos said, "so because they were scheduled to close in a week or two, he tore the deck down." 
There is also no legal requirement that buyers hire an inspector to check on the condition of the property, although some lenders insist on it to reduce the odds of being stuck with a white elephant because the buyer could not afford to replace the boiler, pipes, roof and the many other things that can go wrong.
"Not every buyer wants an inspection, especially a first-time buyer," Mrs. Sullivan said, "because they have their minds set on the house and it's hard to temper their excitement. When they do hire inspectors, some of them don't even bother to spend time with them. So sometimes I say to them, 'You'd spend more time inspecting your auto than you'll spend looking at this house, and the house will cost you 10 times the cost of the car.' " 
Woody Dawson, a longtime house inspector in Cheshire, Conn., said the main reason people do not want their prospective house inspected is that they want the property so badly that either they do not care what the inspector finds or they are afraid of what a thorough inspection might find. 
"The one thing buyers should understand is that there is no perfect house, no matter how much you pay for it," Mr. Dawson said, "and my best advice to sellers is that they have their property inspected before putting it up for sale, so that there are no surprises."
THE final stages of taking possession of a home can be full of surprises, and not all of them good. 
Pat Alberelli, a clinical data coordinator at Burke Rehabilitation Hospital in White Plains, had received approval from Anvil Mortgage Banking Ltd. of Orangeburg, N.Y., for a loan of slightly more than $200,000. She was planning to move her family last month from an apartment in Mount Vernon to a three-bedroom house in Cortlandt Manor, in northern Westchester County, that she was buying with her son Angelo Infelice. 
But the day before the scheduled closing, she received a phone call from her lawyer, Ms. Bacal, telling her that Anvil's bank attorney had phoned to say there was no financing available for the closing. "The next day I read in the newspaper what the problem was," Ms. Bacal said. The New York State Banking Department had suspended Anvil's license for 30 days and was considering revoking it altogether because, it said, the company had "routinely engaged in deceptive acts and practices" 
Among other things, the banking department said, Anvil had accepted $500 application fees from 7,633 mortgage seekers last year -- a total of almost $4 million -- but "could not reasonably expect to be able to fund any significant portion of the applications" because it had only $5 million available.
Mrs. Alberelli said she was one of many who had paid Anvil a $500 application fee at one of its many widely advertised seminars for first-time homeowners. Eric Kotch, Anvil's president, said that the company had acted lawfully, adding that it had "helped hundreds of first-time buyers' purchase homes" and that he looked forward to the hearing before the New York Banking Department.
In the meantime, Ms. Bacal contacted the Newburgh, N.Y., branch of the CTX Mortgage Company of Dallas and arranged a loan with what she and Mrs. Alberelli said was a better rate than that initially promised by Anvil. As a result, Mrs. Alberelli was able to close last Monday and moved in two days later. "It's hard to believe that nightmare is over," she said, knee-deep in boxes.
"One reason I was able to arrange a mortgage and quick closing is that Patti kept all her documents from the beginning," Ms. Bacal said. "So she was able to produce all the necessary papers, including tax returns and W-2 forms. Plus the seller permitted Patti's son Angelo to make a minor repair required by CTX." 
Because everybody cooperated, Ms. Bacal said, this was one time that a closing was concluded to the satisfaction of everyone involved. As an afterthought, she said, "If only all closings were as tranquil, not to mention expeditious."

At a Closing, the Check Writing Never Seems to End
At the closing last week for the house Pat Alberelli and her son Angelo Infelice bought for $194,900, checks were written for the following services and taxes:
Title company, $3,675, including mortgage tax and state, county and town taxes for 2001 that are due next month.
Bank loan origination fee, $1,600.
Escrow fund to cover school tax, county tax and homeowner's insurance, $1,600.
State mortgage tax, $1,472 (an additional $499 was paid by the bank).
Per diem interest on first month mortgage payment, for which the principal would not be due for another month, $820. 
Bank's lawyer, $750.
Appraisal, $360.
Mortgage recording fee, $96.
Deed recording fee, $90.
Inspection fee, $75.
Credit report, $12.
Payment for Mrs. Alberelli's lawyer, Jessica Bacal, was "at the high end" of Ms. Bacal's usual fee "that ranges between $1,000 and $1,500 if there are just the normal headaches." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a closing last week, Angelo Infelice signed to buy a home with his mother, Pat Alberelli, right. Their lawyer, Jessica Bacal, was between them. (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times); Pamela and Robert Jackson and Nkosi, 3, and Barron, 10, in their home in Greenburgh, N.Y. (Stephen Chernin for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Nicholas and Tamara Lauritano at their condo in Branford, Conn. (George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); LAWYERS (89%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY ESCROW (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MARRIAGE (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INSURANCE (68%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (52%) HOUSING; HOUSING 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



452 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2576 words

HEADLINE: Back From the Abyss 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW JACOBS 

DATELINE: WEST ORANGE 

 BODY:
THE for-sale signs, like symptoms of some fast-spreading malady, began cropping up all over town until nearly 600 homes were on the market, many of them languishing for months, their prices edging downward. It was 1997 and despite the region's revved-up economy, West Orange looked as if it were sliding into the abyss. 
 Perched at the edge of New Jersey's most distressed urban places, this classic postwar suburb of 45,000 people faced a welter of seemingly intractable problems. Taxes were soaring, test scores at its vaunted schools were sagging and the town administration, besieged by a string of well-publicized scandals, appeared to be spinning its wheels. White flight, the self-perpetuating sickness that helped drain vitality from prewar suburbs like Irvington, East Orange and Orange, looked as if it had found another victim. 
 But in a remarkable act of self-resuscitation, West Orange pulled itself from the brink. Then, according to real estate agents and residents, it began to thrive. In the past two years, property values have jumped 40 percent, and with fewer than 200 houses on the market, bidding wars have become the norm. Developers, bullish on West Orange's future, have put up more than 2,000 town houses, some of them fetching a half-million dollars. The auto theft epidemic that once claimed 425 cars a year has been cut by 21 percent. And last summer, in a public relations bonanza that lured tens of thousands of tourists to its 12 square miles, the town played host to the Cow Parade, an arts event shared including such cities as Zurich and Stamford, New York and Chicago.
Optimism, most everyone agrees, has suddenly replaced dread. "West Orange has become easy for me to sell," said Ken Baris, a local real estate agent. "The bad news seems to be a distant memory."
Not that West Orange is a model of municipal perfection. Taxes remain steep, the schools have become overcrowded, and the urbanized slice of town abutting Orange is still struggling for stability. Retired residents, weighed down by high property taxes, continue to depart for less expensive towns to the south and west. 
But for the time being, West Orange is weathering the kind of shifting demographics that might have devastated a community a generation ago. Although whites still dominate the town, with 62 percent of the population, the latest census figures released about 10 days ago show that the town's black population grew by 250 percent in the last 10 years, to 7,848 from 2,286. The number of Hispanics, both black and white, nearly tripled to 4,514 from 1,640 in 1990.
As a model, its successes and failures offer valuable lessons.
Rather than fret about the implications of such change, West Orange officials have publicly embraced the numbers as proof that theirs is a community that welcomes diversity.
"To me it shows that people here are enlightened thinkers," said John F. McKeon, the mayor since 1998. "I think we are a shinning example of a place that accepts and celebrates all kinds of people."
A new suburb that until recently was predominantly white, West Orange is grappling with the kinds of change that many American suburbs can one day expect to face. 
While it has benefited from the region's thriving economy -- and its proximity to Manhattan, 15 miles to the east -- West Orange's turnaround was jump-started by resurgent civic activism and public relations pizazz inspired by a newly elected slate of leaders who refused to let their town slide into a cycle of despair.
Residents and real estate executives largely credit the mayor -- an energetic lawyer who won office by promising to clean house -- with helping to turn the tide of pessimism.
"When I came into office, the community had lost faith in itself and many people were ready to run away from our problems," Mr. McKeon said. "What I always would tell people, to borrow a phrase from F.D.R., is that we have nothing to fear but fear itself."
For West Orange and many of its older residents, fear was something they had known in another era. Largely undeveloped until World War II, the town grew at first with the Jews, Italians and Irish who had eagerly left Newark and its densely built suburbs.
Like many new communities of the 1940's, 50's and 60's, West Orange was a place well insulated from the urban woes that only seemed to intensify after the 1967 riots in Newark, just two miles away. Its schools were among the nation's finest and its ranch and split-level houses were affordable for a population that was solidly middle class. 
As of the 1980 census, the town was TK white. But like other enclaves just west of Newark, West Orange began to attract upwardly mobile blacks in the 1980's. While some longtime residents joined the exodus to the fast-growing subdivisions of Morris, Monmouth and Ocean Counties, most saw no reason to leave. 
It was in the 1990's, however, that the trickle turned into a flood. Most of those leaving were the town's original settlers, now empty nesters, who were looking for smaller homes and lower taxes. But the spate of bad publicity that buffeted the town in the mid-1990's clearly shook public confidence in West Orange's future.
In a political melodrama that persisted for years, the police chief, Robert Spina, was convicted of abusing his wife. In 1996, a year later, he was convicted of warning a drug suspect about an impending police raid. Perhaps more troubling to many was that the police chief was the son of Samuel A. Spina, the mayor of 17 years. 
For months, Mr. Spina refused to dismiss his son, ignoring candlelight vigils and a Town Council resolution demanding his suspension. (Mr. Spina's son had replaced Edward Palardy, who resigned after pleading guilty to federal tax evasion charges. Another black eye came in 1998, when the former township attorney, Joseph Dooley Jr., was indicted on charges that he stole $179,000 from clients in his private practice.) 
After Mr. Spina's conviction, residents began a petition drive to force a recall election for the mayor. In April 1997, after the group had collected 5,500 signatures, Mr. Spina announced that he would not seek re-election. 
But by then, property values were slumping, fueled by the growing glut of homes on the market. A spate of auto thefts contributed to the sense of insecurity.
"Every time we seemed to recover from the bad news, something else would come along," said Kevin Keogh, 35, the council president, who won office in 1998 along with three other newcomers. "Friends were moving away and no one had confidence in the town. We were really at a low point."
After his election with 80 percent of the vote, Mr. McKeon set about shaking up the status quo. To forestall further tax increases, he negotiated more favorable contracts with town workers and hired a grant writer who found $500,000 to spruce up the fraying neighborhood near Main Street. To counteract nervousness over crime, he pressed local shopping centers to hire off-duty police officers.
Over the past four years, Mr. McKeon has used spending curbs and new sources of funds to freeze municipal taxes. To help boost the town's self-image, he hired an in-house public relations expert to publicize a flurry of new initiatives, including an anti-hunger campaign that encourages residents to place canned goods at their curb with their trash and recyclables.
A group of residents formed a public relations commission to help spread the good news to real estate agents and the media.
"Frankly, people were misinformed and hearing things that may or may not have been true," said Lisa Scalora, the commission's chairwoman. "We wanted to get the word out that West Orange has a lot to offer."
Part of the challenge stems from West Orange's sprawling geography. Spread across two folds of the Watchung Mountains, it does not have a traditional downtown, and its newer sections lack the majestic pre-war architecture that often draws a lpot of interest among the S.U.V. And while it is well-served by Interstate 280, which cuts through the town's midsection, West Orange has no direct train service to Manhattan, another selling point that has helped revitalize its neighbors. "In some ways, we've been overshadowed by the successes of Montclair, Maplewood and South Orange," Ms. Scalora said. 
"That makes West Orange's job a little more difficult," said. James W. Hughes, dean of the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "But then again, there are significant price differences, which gives it an affordability advantage."
And in the promotional video and glossy brochures West Orange has produced, the town has relentlessly crowed about its other assets: five golf courses, a slew of high-end restaurants and two forested preserves that comprise a fifth of its 12 square miles. Diversity, public schools and a generous level of services have also become much-touted selling points. 
The recent run-up in house values, real-estate brokers say, is partly a case of catch up. Barbara Margulis, a sales associate at Burgdorff ERA in Livingston, said many homebuyers had been drawn by prices that were appreciably lower than surrounding communities.
"I think all the good P.R. is finally working," Ms. Margulis said. "West Orange is selling very well."
As for the many new arrivals, they say they feel as if they have discovered a bargain. With a $240,000 housing budget, Jessica and Steve Jacobs said they gave up on Livingston, Caldwell and Verona after months of viewing small homes on busy streets.
"All we were able to afford were cramped Cape Cods on tiny lots," said Ms. Jacobs, 32, a school teacher from Bloomfield who has a 2-year old son. "My husband would say, 'It's cute, but where are we going to put the baby?' " 
The large three-bedroom split level they were able to afford in the Pleasantdale section, she said, offset the town's higher taxes. 
But the renewed interest in West Orange has created some unforeseen consequences. The turnover in older housing and surge in new construction has brought a wave of newcomers with school-age children. Having sold off school buildings during an enrollment dip in the 1980's, the town has been struggling to accommodate the wave of new students without large-scale construction. While its schools are still considered among the finest in the state, education officials can not seem to keep up with the influx of newcomers, who have pushed enrollment to 5,900 from 4,452 in 1993. Next year, the board of education expects the school population to surpass 6,200.
REDWOOD elementary school, for example, has 450 students this year, up from 302 in 1993, said the principal, George Dixon. Four trailers set in the parking lot have helped contain the overflow, but a lack of space has forced the school to curb its performing arts program. The gymnasium, which houses the school stage and cafeteria, has to accommodate six lunch periods and three-and-a-half hours of physical education.
"We're frankly running out of creative solutions," said Mr. Dixon, who has on occasion had to give up his office for scholastic activities. "I joke that I'm going to put my desk on wheels."
Education advocates say West Orange is shortchanged by the state's school-aid formula, which provides up to 90 percent of the budgets for places like Orange, East Orange and Newark. West Orange taxpayers, by contrast, provide 90 percent of the town's school dollars. The method for dispensing aid is flawed, they say, because West Orange is categorized as affluent, largely because it includes Llewellyn Park, a 425-acre gated community with some of the state's most expensive homes. 
Mary Ann Roland, a parent who has been lobbying Trenton for relief, says the wealth of Llewellyn Park statistically cancels out the town's large working-class population and its pockets of poverty.
"Most people who live here are two-parent families working hard to make ends meet," Ms. Roland said. "It's just not fair."
In recent years three attempts to bolster the $70 million school budget through public referendums have been voted down, largely by older residents opposed to any tax increase. The West Orange Tax Reform Association has helped direct the taxpayer revolt that killed the initiatives, including one last year that would have raised taxes an average of $288 a year.
John Schmidt, a securities executive who serve as the association president, said the school board could improve its finances by negotiating tougher contracts with the teachers' union and privatizing janitorial and bus services. With an average salary of $61,000 -- compared with the statewide average of $50,000 -- West Orange teachers, he said, are among the best paid in New Jersey. Mr. Schmidt also said he would like to see a reduction in personal days, sick days and the union's generous health and dental benefit package.
"Our teachers get one free period a day," said Mr. Schmidt, a Llewellyn Park resident whose children attend parochial school. "How many people get a 45-minute break for a four to five hour day? They already get three months of vacation."
School board members and education officials say they are already operating with fiscal prudence. West Orange teachers are paid more, they say, because they by and large have more seniority -- and experience -- than the statewide average. They also add that the salaries reflect the going rate in Essex County, which has a higher cost of living than other counties. You get what you pay for, said Ms. Roland, 41, a bookkeeper whose daughter is a 5th grader at Redwood. We have great teachers in this town. Id hate to lose them.
West Orange Advocates for Schools and Community, a group that has been fighting for increased school funding, contends those who oppose the referendums are ultimately hurting their own pocket book. In a few years, these people are going to want to sell their homes, said Jack Quinn, the groups president and a former school board member. By investing in our kids, theyre investing in their property values. 
In the meantime, the superintendent, Jerry P. Tarnoff, said the town is moving forward on scaled-down expansion plans for several schools, including a new gymnasium, cafeteria and science labs for the high school. Obviously were been doing the best we can with limited resources, he said.
Despite the frustration over taxes and overcrowded schools, many lifelong residents say the worst of times are behind them.
"I've seen the good and the bad, and now I'm seeing a lot of good," said Ms. Scalora said. "Everyone feels the buzz, and its just incredible."
Fifteen years ago, several racial incidents at a local school prompted Harold Phipps and some of his neighbors to form The Concerned Black Citizens of West Orange. But those earlier fears of racial strife, Mr. Phipps said, have long since faded.
"These days, black families are moving to all parts of town and finding acceptance," said Mr. Phipps, a resident since 1975. "It's no big deal anymore."
Michael Kay, the planning board chairman, agrees. Several years ago, he and his wife considered moving out of town -- but then had a change of heart.
"We decided we just couldn't live anywhere else," said Mr. Kay, who grew up in West Orange. As the father of a high school freshman, Mr. Kay said he was thankful for the growing diversity.
"I like the fact that my kids are going to school with kids from all over the world and that there are no issues of discomfort," he said. "I look at it as a giant gift you give your children."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Washington and Main Streets is what passes for downtown, Mayor John F. McKeon says. In this classic post-war suburb of 45,000, many West Orange residents live in modest homes like those on Main Street. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Thomas Edison built his factory on Main Street, above. Today, crowded schools like Redwood Elementary, far left, are aided by temporary classrooms. Mayor John F. McKeon, below left, froze taxes and hired a public relations expert, Chris Slevin, right. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times); (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 9) Map of New Jersey highlighting West Orange. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); URBANIZATION (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); ETHICS (69%); SCANDALS (69%); VEHICLE THEFT (65%); CENSUS (63%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; HOUSING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TESTS AND TESTING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) WEST ORANGE (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



453 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 71 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFING: ECONOMY; 
TAX REVENUE

BYLINE:  By Anne Ruderman 

 BODY:
 State tax revenue totaled $53 million in February, 3.5 percent below estimates, mainly because of lower corporate and inheritance taxes than projected. 
The state treasury department said that in a budget of $20 billion, a $53 million shortage in one month was not significant. State revenue for the first eight months of fiscal year 2001 came to $13 billion, which was $52 million below the expected total. Anne Ruderman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); ESTATE TAX (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

PERSON: RUDERMAN, ANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



454 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS: VOWS; 
Janeen Saltman and Alden Levy

BYLINE:  By ALEX KUCZYNSKI 

 BODY:
CALL it a love story from the annals of the dot-com recession.
 When Janeen Karen Saltman and Alden Ben Levy met face to face for the first time, adoring fireworks did not go off, nor did hearts instantly melt into a puddle of love-addled goo. 
 No, Mr. Levy yelled at her. 
In May 1999, Mr. Levy, known among his friends for his cool sense of humor and elegant manners, had just helped to found an Internet company, iConnect.com, and had hired Ms. Saltman to plan the company's opening-day party for June in downtown Manhattan. Ms. Saltman, a tall, slender brunette with a giddy lilting laugh, had just started her own party-planning firm, JKS Events. 
Mr. Levy, with allergies so intense they can require frequent medication, had only two requests: no shellfish, no fragrant flowers. Somehow the signals got crossed. When Mr. Levy, now 35, arrived for the party, he found lushly blooming, heavily fragrant bouquets of gardenias scattered around. 
"The first thing I said to her was, 'The flowers stink!' " Mr. Levy recalled. "I had to run home and take an allergy pill." He added, "Janeen thought I was going to fire her on the spot." 
Ms. Saltman, fearful of losing a new client, offered to remove the flowers immediately. Mr. Levy growled at her to come around the next day to pick them up. And that was when he knew something other than a wheezing cough was stirring deep within him. "I could tell that he was feeling some chemistry," said Nick Patnaik, a college friend of Mr. Levy's who attended the party.
It was with some trepidation that Ms. Saltman, now 29, stopped by the offices that day. But Mr. Levy, emboldened by antihistamines, had softened his approach. He asked her out for dinner and she said yes -- on the condition that he hire her to plan more parties for him. Things moved quickly from there. They went out the next night, and the next. They had brunch with her parents. Ms. Saltman still remembers where they went and what she wore on their first three dates -- a major sign of feminine infatuation. ("On our second date, it was a little black sweater set and open-toed shoes," she said.)
About a year after they met, Mr. Levy built a Web site asking her to marry him. While Mr. Levy, who said his company "is on its last legs," switched to working as an Internet consultant, Ms. Saltman planned their wedding: a masquerade ball on March 10 at the Essex House in New York.
Ms. Saltman, who loves theatricality, asked the 150 guests to wear masks with their ball gowns and dinner jackets, and so the couple exchanged vows before an audience of plumed swans, clowns, a pig, a gorilla and sequined butterflies. The bridesmaids wore white, with feathered wings affixed to their shoulders -- "ethereal birds," Ms. Saltman called them. The bride, who said she was dressed as Queen Esther, the Jewish heroine from the Purim story, wore a light green dress with a tiara. After the ceremony, Mr. Levy threw on a velvet cloak and a "Phantom of the Opera" mask for the reception. 
Ms. Saltman said that part of what drew her to Mr. Levy was that even though he can be intense about his own work, he is also enthusiastic about her career. "Alden is behind me all the way," she said, waving her hand at the room of costumed guests. "Most guys would think this was just too crazy."
At the wedding, Curtis Hougland, a friend of the couple, who wore his eyeglasses awkwardly over his mask, said, "The most important thing to remember is that it is a testament to her great love for him that she stuck by his side through the dot-com bust."
The bride mused that there is something about a man with terrible allergies that "brings out nurturing qualities" in a woman. "Anyway, now we don't have to deal with it," she added, noting that while Mr. Levy is still her most difficult client, he always watches his medication during allergy season. 
"And I only bring home nonfragrant flowers," she said with a laugh. "Tulips. He likes tulips."

GRAPHIC: Photos: ESSEX HOUSE, MARCH 10 -- The bride and the bridegroom had a few angels, a k a the bridesmaids, watching over them during their wedding. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (75%); ALLERGIES (74%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (71%); WEB SITES (50%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

PERSON: KUCZYNSKI, ALEX; SALTMAN, JANEEN; LEVY, ALDEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



455 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: PULSE; 
More Carry, Less Cash

BYLINE:  By Ellen Tien 

 BODY:
For the last few years of the handbag timeline -- from Gucci bamboo to Prada bowling -- the only way to own a fabulous pocketbook was by emptying your wallet. This season, whether due to a tottery economy or just a much-needed dose of common sense, retailers are offering handbags with high brand appeal at less than half the price of the status staples. 
 For spring, Saks Fifth Avenue came out with its first private label line, which features a trim woven leather pocketbook (left) with red patent leather trim called Venetian Blind, $290, and the Hornback tote, an alligator-pressed calf bag with bamboo handles, $395. 
 Bergdorf Goodman introduced bags by the chic midpriced label TruTru, including a large, luxurious leather carryall for $395. And next month, Lancel, the popular Paris-based leather company, will open its first flagship store in New York, which means polished leather handbags with Parisian appeal at a starting price of $200.
Leave it to French women to figure out the fashion math: you can't spend all your money on a pocketbook when you still have to buy . . . shoes.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); PRIVATE LABELS (76%); RETAILERS (71%) HANDBAGS AND PURSES 

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: TIEN, ELLEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (67%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



456 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: COPING; 
Drug Laws Hurt Children Too

BYLINE:  By FELICIA R. LEE 

 BODY:
THE three young people came from Manhattan, the Bronx and Brooklyn, and what they had in common was that one or both of their parents had spent years in prison under the 1973 Rockefeller drug laws.
 Those laws set stiff penalties for drug possession and use, swelling the state prison population to 70,000 today from 13,000 in 1973. On Tuesday, as part of the Drop the Rock campaign to repeal the laws, about 35 children are to go before legislators in Albany to tell their stories. 
 The children gave a preview of those stories recently when they gathered in the office of Robert Gangi, the executive director of the Correctional Association of New York, a prison watchdog and policy group. The association is one of many religious, women's and prisoners' rights groups seeking what they call a more humane and cost-effective and less racially biased way to fight drugs. 
Ninety-four percent of the drug offenders in New York State prisons are black or Latino, even though studies show that most drug users and sellers are white.
The children talked about the human cost. They were fuzzy on some details, but what emerged were portraits of parents with drug problems. Imprisonment created a wave of problems for the children, as grandparents or the foster system stepped in.
Using children to humanize complex political and social issues is an old tactic. But Drop the Rock is a noble effort with special resonance in many black and Latino neighborhoods, where generation after generation of mothers, fathers, sisters and brothers have been sent to prison for long stretches. Drug policy experts say many of those convicted belonged in treatment, school or work programs instead. The children's stories are not just reasons for advocating the repeal of the Rockefeller laws. They are vivid reminders of the lingering effects of drug use and the persistence of the crack epidemic of the 80's. That horrific epoch fractured families, caused neurological damage in children and produced high rates of crime and AIDS infection.
"We have eliminated whole generations of parents," said Dennis Walcott, president of the New York Urban League. "People lose sight of the problem because of a good economy, but with the economy slowing down, I'm not sure what will happen."
Leonette A., 13, who lives in Manhattan, said her mother went to prison for unknowingly holding drugs for a drug-dealing friend. It was the same year that Leonette's father died. Her brothers were 2 and 3 at the time and began acting out as they got older.
Leonette, an eighth grader, said she became severely withdrawn after being sent to live with her grandparents, who had a hard time handling three young children. She also remembers hitting her classmates for no reason.
Sha-king Graham, 19, from the South Bronx, said both his parents were drug addicts who were in and out of prison for years for drug selling and possession. He was born addicted to crack and had problems learning to read. He was abused in a series of foster homes, he said.
After he and his four sisters were left on their own, one sister was killed in a confrontation with the police only minutes after her drug-dealing boyfriend gave her a gun to hold.
"I've seen it all," Mr. Graham said. "I think I just numbed myself to my surroundings."
Those hoping that the Rockefeller laws will be repealed say too many of the people swept up by the laws were like these parents: nonviolent drug addicts who desperately needed treatment. It costs $32,000 a year to keep an inmate in prison, compared with $17,000 to $21,000 for residential drug treatment.
Mr. Gangi said no one associated with Drop the Rock thought that people who use or sell drugs should go scot-free just because they had children. Rather, he said, a more nuanced approach was needed.
One of the toughest provisions of the Rockefeller law mandates a 15-year-to-life sentence to anyone, even first-time offenders, convicted of selling two ounces or possessing four ounces of cocaine or heroin. 
Nine days ago, nearly two months after he pledged to loosen the Rockefeller laws, Gov. George E. Pataki released a detailed bill that would sharply reduce some prison drug sentences, but would also add new penalties for marijuana convictions. Last Monday, the State Assembly responded with its own proposal, which includes greater judicial discretion and more drug treatment options. 
Critics of the old law hope that whatever bill is finally adopted takes into account these things that cannot be quantified: the broken families, the disrupted lives.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lisa Haney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (92%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); GRANDPARENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); COCAINE (72%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); EPIDEMICS (67%) DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL) 

PERSON: LEE, FELICIA R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



457 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES; 
Therapy for Dot-Com Survivors

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
'HI, I'm Jen, and I'm an entrepreneur. I work 72 hours a week." Pause. "Sometimes I feel totally, utterly alone, like I'm on a rickety old bridge connecting huge gorges in an Indiana Jones movie. It's nice to know there are other people out there who feel the same way I do."
 Many in the audience nodded knowingly as Jen Dalton shared her growing frustrations of operating a fledgling business in an increasingly tough economy. The 65 others who had gathered at Microsoft's campus in Mountain View, Calif., to attend a half-day "Sustainable Entrepreneur" workshop last month took turns talking about their troubles. Many had seen their dot-com businesses fail in recent months, and they were there to take an "honest look at the way they are running their lives and how it's not working," Nicholas Hall, 31, the workshop organizer, said. 
 Some people might call it group therapy for Adult Survivors of Dysfunctional Dot-Coms. Whatever the label, it is the latest coping mechanism for entrepreneurs whose companies have gone under or are struggling. But instead of the now-ubiquitous "pink slip" parties for the rank and file, these self-help workshops target the man or woman at the top. 
"The entrepreneur himself had this huge idea, got a jillion people to sign on and then it all fell apart," said Ms. Dalton, 30, who started a career- and business-consulting company called idea girl in San Francisco six months ago. "You think of yourself as the biggest loser."
Joan Indursky-DiFuria, co-founder of the Money, Meaning and Choices Institute in San Francisco -- the folks who put the phrase "Sudden Wealth Syndrome" into the lexicon -- said many of her clients are now dealing with "Sudden Loss of Wealth Syndrome." Symptoms include feelings of shame, guilt and humility. "Even though they know the economy is largely responsible, they thought they should have been able to conquer it," she said. The institute's goal, she added, is to help people find balance between work, life and money. 
There are other places where failed entrepreneurs can go to explore their real and perceived inadequacies. Since January, Nigel Henry, 39, a business coach in Oakland, Calif., has been running his day-long "Master Unleashed" workshops twice a month in the San Francisco Bay area (fee: $150 each). He said being laid off or watching your company fall apart is a good time to ask the question, "What am I doing on the planet?" Although he also does individual coaching, he believes the group dynamic is more powerful. "Each person brings a new dimension on the same subject, so you get the benefit of everybody's perspective," he said.
In February, Mr. Hall, who also founded Startupfailures.com, an online support community, unveiled the first "Sustainable Entrepreneur" seminar, which costs about $100. (Participants can opt to take part in a three-month follow-up luncheon series for additional fees.)
The biggest problem, Mr. Hall said, is that the identity of so many entrepreneurs is wrapped up in their companies, and when the businesses die, "they're left without a personal vision."
"One guy, a graphic designer, lost all of his clients in one month," he said. "All of them gone, boom. I'm trying to help entrepreneurs see how to fit their work into their life as opposed to fit their life into their work."
That is not always easy to do, as Mr. Hall discovered when he invited visitors to his Web site to take a survey about how they felt after their businesses failed. Two-thirds of the 400 people who responded said their physical well being had suffered and their confidence was rattled.
Mr. Hall also knows about failure; he has seen three of his start-up companies (in financial services and the beverage and Internet industries) implode. Now, it seems, he has found success in failure.
"There are so many workshops that help start-ups raise money and things of that nature," he said. "I hope the kind of work I'm doing becomes more of a holistic approach to training for the entrepreneurs."
If the New Age vibe seems a little prominent, well, it is. On the other hand, the workshops are not all deep breathing and sun salutations. Mr. Hall injects humor throughout, like the contest to see who had the most credit card debt or who had taken the shortest vacation. (Winners were given scissors and sun block.) But participants are also asked to take long, hard looks at their goals. "We look at the model of sustainability, some people refer to it as a balanced life," Mr. Hall said. "I look at the different practices in my life that have enabled me to enjoy the journey, despite the fact that some of my start-ups haven't worked out so well."
SOME people, of course, shun the group atmosphere and seek one-on-one therapy. Dr. James P. Osterhaus, a clinical psychologist in the greater Washington area and co-author of "The Thing in the Bushes" (Pinion Press, 2001), a book about preventing business failure, sees a number of recovering dot-comers both in his private practice and at the Armstrong Group, a management consulting firm in Fairfax, Va., where he also works. "A lot of the work we do is grief work," he said. "They lost money, a lifestyle. They work through the stages of grief: shock, disbelief, anger, depression and acceptance."
Ms. Dalton, for one, compared the life of an entrepreneur to the life of a soldier. "The thing is, we're all fighting by ourselves and our failures are that much more intense because they are ours alone," she said.
Her goal, she said, is to try to live in the here and now, not compare herself to her seemingly more successful peers.
And if she happens to make $300,000 a year in the process, well, she certainly won't complain.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Van Nutt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ENTREPRENEURSHIP 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) MOUNTAIN VIEW (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



458 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
2 Prophets Of Disaster See Trouble Once Again

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
MR. DOOM and Dr. Gloom are back. You remember them. They were the Wall Street economists who in the 1970's argued that the Federal Reserve had missed the boat, until Paul A. Volcker came along. They are pushing a new message today -- that the Fed has once again missed the boat. And so far there is no salvation.
 The gloomy pair are Henry Kaufman and Albert M. Wojnilower. In those earlier days, they were the powerful chief economists at Salomon Brothers and the First Boston Corporation, respectively, and their dim outlooks shook markets. Salomon and First Boston are gone now, obscured in mergers, but Mr. Kaufman and Mr. Wojnilower, operating as independent financial consultants, have sustained their gloom. For months, they have warned that a new disaster is unfolding. 
 For them, stock-price inflation -- and now deflation -- have come to play just as important a role in shaping the economy as ordinary inflation in goods and services, but the Fed has refused to acknowledge this shift. Certainly a family's multiplying stock market wealth or, conversely, its evaporating portfolio are powerful influences on economic activity, just as powerful as a few dollars more for groceries, or a few hundred dollars more or less for a new car. 
Mr. Kaufman says Alan Greenspan's failure to acknowledge this shift "was a massive contributing factor to the stock market bubble," now pricked. Mr. Wojnilower adds that the Fed chairman should have started warning back in the 1990's that the surge in stock prices was too dependent on credit -- not so much margin debt, but shares purchased with consumer loans, through mortgage refinancing and home equity loans, and corporate borrowing.
"We're in a mess," Mr. Wojnilower said, adding that there is no way to "restart the economy. We will have a period of very modest growth."
The stock markets, in sum, have driven the economy for the past five years instead of the other way around -- a structural change that the Fed still has not recognized. Ben S. Bernanke, a Princeton economist whose research reflects Fed thinking, put it this way last week, "As long as the Fed keeps its eye on economic growth and on stabilizing consumer price inflation, then the economy will remain stable even in the face of large stock market fluctuations." 
Mr. Kaufman and Mr. Wojnilower rose to fame by recognizing an earlier structural change, and its consequences, before others did. Deregulation in the 1970's had removed ceilings on interest rates. As a result, the Fed, trying to control inflation, encountered difficulty in applying the usual tactic of raising interest rates to discourage lending. That had slowed the economy in the past and with it the inflation rate. But without the ceilings, lenders simply raised the interest that they charged for loans and thus maintained a profitable spread over the rising cost of attracting deposits to lend.
"It did not matter how high rates went as long as spreads were preserved," Mr. Kaufman said. Borrowers, in turn, counted on inflation to make their loans cheaper to repay.
With Mr. Volcker installed as chairman, the Fed belatedly recognized the dangers in this structural shift and began to shove up rates. Understanding the dynamics, Mr. Kaufman and Mr. Wojnilower forecast that the Fed would have to get rates above 20 percent to discourage borrowing and cut inflation. They were right, but they were forever dubbed Dr. Gloom (Mr. Wojnilower) and Dr. Doom (Mr. Kaufman), sobriquets the severe 1981-1982 recession validated.
Now the economy is once again restructured -- this time around stocks -- and the edifice is once again unwinding. Rising stock prices, for example, financed a rush of capital spending, which in turn fueled the economic boom. In a falling market, this spending is being cut back. Similarly, consumers financed some spending by selling stock. Falling prices dilute this tactic.
Rather than acknowledge the bubble and the market's bull-in-a-china-shop role in the economy, Mr. Greenspan spoke in 1996 of irrational exuberance as a possibility, but insisted thereafter that the market responded to the economy, not the other way around. If a bubble existed, he said, that would be evident only after it burst, and the Fed would deal with the blow by cutting rates.
Well, the bubble is bursting and the Fed is cutting rates. That is perhaps the only remedy left. All the earlier opportunities to soften the market and its impact on the economy -- by leaning on lenders, for example, and by instilling in Americans the dangers of an overvalued market -- are gone now.
Like everyone, Dr. Doom and Dr. Gloom are scrambling for solutions. While Dr. Doom wants the Fed to cut rates by a full percentage point when it meets on Tuesday, Dr. Gloom favors a tax cut for shareholders. Either solution is grasping at straws.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows the change in index levels this year, plotted weekly from January-March 2001.(Source: Bloomberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (73%); DEFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); CORPORATE DEBT (68%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (63%); PERSONAL FINANCE (63%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; MORTGAGES; MARGIN TRADING 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS; KAUFMAN, HENRY; WOJNILOWER, ALBERT M 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



459 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3075 words

HEADLINE: Web Comes Up Fast on the Outside 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
IT was post time at the Happy Valley Racecourse here, and Serena Yuen hopped nervously from foot to foot.
 Usually, Ms. Yuen studies the odds and past records of horses before deciding which one to back. But as she clutched her betting stub, she acknowledged that something less scientific had lured her: the name "Forever Gold." 
 As the horses thundered by, Ms. Yuen's face registered the hope and pain familiar to anyone who has ever blown $50 on an also-ran. "I couldn't even see the horse's shadow," she said bitterly, as Forever Gold turned to dross. Then anger gave way to fresh hope, as Ms. Yuen unfolded a racing form and plotted her strategy for the next race. 
Ms. Yuen, a homemaker in her 40's, is one of more than a million Hong Kongers who bet regularly on horse racing. Each year, they pour nearly $11 billion into the coffers of the Hong Kong Jockey Club, based on shrewd calculation, odd hunches or the simple belief that a horse named Forever Gold cannot lose.
In the process, they have transformed the Jockey Club into a money machine -- a giant cash register sitting at the heart of this pecuniary city. The club gives away the bulk of its profits in donations, which makes it by far the largest charity in Hong Kong and one of the largest in the world. Measured by the dollars it donates each year, it rivals the Rockefeller Foundation.
"It's hard to overstate the influence of the Jockey Club," said Michael DeGolyer, the director of the Hong Kong Transition Project, an academic survey of public attitudes here. "It's like the most prestigious golf club, the Kentucky Derby and the Carnegie Foundation, all rolled into one."
For 117 years -- through war, Japanese occupation and Hong Kong's rough passage from British colony to Chinese metropolis -- nothing has disrupted this efficient parting of gamblers from their money.
Until the Internet. 
The explosive growth of online gambling has helped erode the Jockey Club's revenue by 10 percent from its peak in 1997. The number of Hong Kong Internet users who visit gambling sites has nearly doubled in the last six months, and the Jockey Club faces a rising threat to its once-impregnable franchise.
"If this doesn't get curbed, we could really see things fall off a cliff," said Lawrence T. Wong, an aerospace engineer and former Ford Motor executive who has run the Jockey Club since 1996. 
Mr. Wong estimates that the Jockey Club loses about $7 billion a year to unauthorized gambling on races, which in Hong Kong refers to any bets that are not placed through the club. While much of that goes to the illegal bookmakers who have always loitered in the shadows of Happy Valley, a growing percentage is flowing to offshore Internet sites with names like Easybets.com.
IN 1995, there were fewer than a dozen online gambling sites. Today, analysts figure there are 700 to 1,200. Many operate in Caribbean countries like Antigua, the Bahamas and the Cayman Islands, beyond the reach of law enforcement agencies in the United States and Europe, let alone Hong Kong.
The Internet sites offer customers the convenience of wagering from their own PC's on basketball, soccer, tennis and Formula One auto racing, not to mention horse racing. Because the sites are not taxed and have little overhead, they can afford to offer a better deal to bettors than the Jockey Club.
NetValue Ltd., a research firm, estimates that 41 percent of Internet users in Hong Kong, or 442,590 people, visited at least one online gambling site in December. That compares with 36 percent the previous month and 22 percent in October.
Internet gambling is also growing in Europe and the United States. NetValue, based in Paris, estimates that three million people a month in Britain visit gambling sites. In the United States, nearly 35 million people do. 
"In most businesses, you can build entry barriers, whether it's investment or labor," Mr. Wong said. "Our fear is that it doesn't take very much to set up a Web site. The revenue growth is not even a straight line; it is exponential. It's a bit like the dot-com phenomenon two years ago."
The specter of accelerating losses has led Mr. Wong and the Jockey Club to organize a very public campaign to amend Hong Kong's gambling ordinance, which was passed 25 years ago. The local government recently introduced a bill in the Hong Kong legislature that would prohibit offshore, Internet gambling.
LOBBYING is a big departure for a club that is accustomed to conducting its affairs -- whether horse racing or philanthropy -- out of the public view. It is also out of character for Mr. Wong, a buttoned-down American businessman who spent 29 years at Ford, much of it in engineering jobs, before rising to run its Taiwan operation in 1993. 
"I'd like to do things quietly," said Mr. Wong. "But we've got to send a message to people about what's legal and what's illegal. Every citizen in Hong Kong should feel this is important. It's their money."
There is a clear subtext: If Hong Kong does not act, it could lose the nearly $148 million inannual charity distributed by the club. That is a problem for a city in which the government provides little social welfare, and in which there is little tradition, outside the club, of private philanthropy.
Moreover, the Jockey Club pays the government $1.6 billion a year in taxes and betting duties. That accounted for 11 percent of Hong Kong's total tax revenue in the 1999-2000 fiscal year. And it is one reason the city can maintain an income tax rate of 15 percent, one of the lowest among developed economies.
"The wealth of the Jockey Club has taken a lot of pressure off the government," said Mr. DeGolyer at the Hong Kong Transition Project. "It has allowed the government to maintain Hong Kong's tradition of free markets."
Still, the club's campaign is stirring a noisy debate here about the desirability, or even practicality, of curbing the patronage of offshore Internet gambling. Despite its reversion to China in 1997, Hong Kong still views itself as a free-market bastion. Some opponents of the legislation say the government has no business restricting the use of Internet gambling services, as long as the sites are licensed in their own territories.
Others contend that the authorities could never enforce a law that banned betting through offshore companies. Just to try, they said, Hong Kong would have to use measures that could infringe on personal privacy, like monitoring e-mail traffic from local Internet service providers to overseas Web sites.
"Should we go this far? Should we limit people's rights?" asked Sin Chung-kai, a member of the legislative council who opposes a sweeping new amendment against offshore gambling.
"Under the proposed legislation, a British person visiting Hong Kong who borrows a mobile phone to place a bet on a Manchester United game would be committing a crime," Mr. Sin said. "That's too harsh."
Mr. Sin, a member of Hong Kong's Democratic Party, said he supported cracking down on unauthorized local companies that offer Internet gambling. But he said that imposing a gambling ordinance overseas -- as the United States has tried to do -- would place Hong Kong in an untenable position.
OTHER critics of the bill say it would have its harshest effects on the Macao Jockey Club in the former Portuguese colony of Macao, 38 miles across the Pearl River delta from Hong Kong. Younger and smaller than its Hong Kong rival, the Macao Jockey Club depends on bets from Hong Kong wagerers for up to 60 percent of its revenue. Barring offshore gambling would choke off that stream.
Mr. Wong acknowledged that Hong Kong could not enforce such a law with complete success. But merely passing it, he said, would demonstrate a commitment to protecting the city's biggest source of charity.
Nor is Mr. Wong content to stop there. He would like Hong Kong to reduce or eliminate its 14 percent betting duty, and to tax the Jockey Club on profits, as if it were a regular corporation. That would let the club offer a higher dividend on bets, making it more competitive with the Internet services.
Just in case his lobbying campaign falls short, Mr. Wong is quietly pushing ahead with a plan to offer online betting on the Jockey Club's own Web site. The club began a pilot program last fall with 500 customers who have telephone betting accounts with the club. Even when the service is expanded, Mr. Wong said, it will be available only to Hong Kong residents.
He said he did not expect the Internet to be a major source of betting revenue for the club, but merely another way for existing customers to gamble. Mr. Wong has reason to play down the project: the club does not want to be seen as exploiting the same technology that it seeks to curb when competitors use it.
"We're proceeding very slowly," Mr. Wong said. "We don't want people to say, 'They have a Web site, so they're like everybody else.' "
At its heart, the debate over online gambling is a debate over the role of the Jockey Club in Hong Kong society. Few dispute the club's contribution, symbolized by the dozens of schools, hospitals, parks -- even an entire university -- built on club donations.
On the other hand, gambling pervades Hong Kong more than many other places. The government even chose to mark the turn of the millennium last year with a midnight horse race. For thousands of people here, betting on the ponies is a debilitating, lifelong habit.
Lo Kin Fad, 56, has come to Happy Valley every week for 20 years. Mr. Lo, a fruit seller, said he generally bets $10 a race several times a night. He was losing on a recent night, but noted that he won $516 on Valentine's Day.
"Sometimes when a horse is losing, I keep betting on him until he wins," Mr. Lo said, pulling nervously at his frayed sweater.
Doris Ho, the manager of charities at the Jockey Club, sums up the ambivalence this way: "A lot of people say, 'The Jockey Club will take care of it; let's leave it to the Jockey Club.' But then they turn around and say, 'We don't like gambling; we don't want off-track betting in our town.' "
DOING good was not uppermost in the minds of the British colonials who began racing horses here in 1846. To build the Happy Valley course, they had to drain a fever-ridden swamp. Sir John Davis, the governor of Hong Kong who approved the plan, did not even mention it in his correspondence to London, for fear that Whitehall bureaucrats would veto the project.
In the early days, horse racing was the province of wealthy colonial clans like the Jardines, founders of the trading firm Jardine Matheson. The Chinese played little role in the sport, except to work as stable hands.
The Jockey Club was formally established in 1884; it admitted its first Chinese members in 1926. By the end of the 1930's, Chinese businessmen had made their way into the owners' circle. It was not until Mr. Wong's appointment in 1996, however, that the club had a chief executive of ethnic Chinese descent.
Racing continued through World War II, when the Japanese occupied Hong Kong, though the Jockey Club was badly demoralized. Imperial Army officers requisitioned the best race horses to ride triumphantly through the colony.
After the war, Hong Kong was inundated by refugees fleeing the Communist revolution in mainland China. Housing was in desperately short supply, and the refugee camps were teeming with tuberculosis.
The Jockey Club, which had been donating money since 1914, decided to formalize its charity. Starting in 1955, it pledged to give away its entire surplus, after taxes and operating expenses. That decision helped the club win the coveted prefix "Royal" from Queen Elizabeth in 1960. (Like most colonial institutions, it dropped that part of its name in 1996 to prepare for the era of Chinese rule.)
The Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club was an indisputably British institution. Its chief executive was usually a retired British general, and the stewards -- members of its board -- were drawn from the British banks and trading firms that dominated Hong Kong's commercial life.
In the club's heyday, it was said that Hong Kong was run by the Jockey Club, Hong Kong Bank, Jardine Matheson and the governor -- in that order. 
Few people feared for the future of the Jockey Club after the handover to China. No less an authority than Deng Xiaoping promised that the races would go on. But even fewer foresaw the Asian economic crisis, which plunged Hong Kong into a deep recession and dulled the public appetite for gambling.
THE Jockey Club's revenue from betting fell in 1998 for the first time. Betting revenue rose 2 percent last year, but Mr. Wong attributed that to an increase in the number of days in the racing season. Average daily attendance and betting revenue has fallen since 1997 at both Happy Valley and Shatin, a newer race course operated by the club in Hong Kong's New Territories.
"We never recovered from the crash," Mr. Wong said.
Given that Hong Kong's economy is growing again at pre-crisis levels, Mr. Wong said he believed that a chunk of the Jockey Club's business had migrated permanently to illegal bookmakers and online gambling services.
Last year, he said, the Hong Kong police raided an illegal bookmaker on a race day at the Shatin course. Though it was only the day's third race, with six more to go, the bookmaker had collected $12 million in bets. If 10 other bookmaking rings like that were operating in Hong Kong that day, Mr. Wong said, their daily take would have equaled that of the Jockey Club.
Old-fashioned illegal bookmaking tends to be controlled by Chinese gangs known as triads. The police have had some success in smashing these rings, but the syndicates are becoming more elusive because they now use laptop computers and operate from hotel rooms across the border in mainland China.
Established gambling services like Victor Chandler, Ladbrokes, and William Hill are another threat. Legal in Britain, these outfits offer betting by telephone on sports like professional basketball and Premier League soccer. Victor Chandler has an office in Hong Kong, where residents can open accounts.
A representative of Victor Chandler told a prospective customer that it did not offer bets on Jockey Club races. He also noted that transactions were processed in the firm's office in Gibraltar -- a proviso that allows Victor Chandler to claim it is not offering gambling in Hong Kong. 
"They are not illegal per se," said Betty Fung, the deputy home secretary of Hong Kong, who oversees gambling. "But the fact that they are unauthorized in Hong Kong means that our revenue, our betting duty, and also charitable donations will be affected if people continue to bet on these games."
MOST elusive of all are the Internet gambling services. Easybets.com, which is registered in Antigua, operates a Chinese-language Web site that offers bets on Hong Kong horse races. With a PC and credit card, betters no longer have to venture out to the track, drop in to one of the Jockey Club's 125 off-track betting centers or even use its telephone betting service.
Just as the Internet dissolves barriers in the world of information, these Web sites make a hash of the rules and regulations that protect one country from activities that are unlawful on its territory but legal elsewhere.
"Normally, you have a traffic cop saying this is the way business is conducted, with the input of both governments," said Timothy P. McNally, the executive director of security at the Jockey Club. "But now, everybody is rolling through the intersection with no stoplights, no controls, no regulation." 
Mr. McNally, recruited by Mr. Wong in 1998, is the former head of the Los Angeles field office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He oversees routine security issues, like trucking millions of dollars in bets to the bank and ensuring that jockeys are not bribed to throw races.
But he also advises Hong Kong's police and anticorruption agency about how to combat online gambling. Among his assignments at the F.B.I. was investigating child pornography rings on the Internet.
For all the warnings about online gambling, Mr. Wong and his lieutenants know that the Jockey Club must also buff its image. Horse racing is seen by many people here as an old person's sport, just as it is in the United States. The image of grim-faced fans clutching racing forms is hardly appealing.
Mr. Wong has tried to counter that by installing sushi bars and fancier seats at the tracks. He also brought in a prominent German horse breeder, Winfried Engelbrecht-Bresges, to upgrade the caliber of the sport.
By offering some of the biggest prizes in racing -- the average purse is $100,000, while the richest, the Hong Kong Cup, is worth $1.8 million -- Hong Kong has lured world-class jockeys and horses to Asia. (The purse for the Kentucky Derby is $1 million.) In its ads, the club promotes jockeys in the same way that the National Basketball Association promotes top players.
"We have to be aggressive because we know there is more and more competition," Mr. Engelbrecht-Bresges said.
SOCCER, in particular, is luring away younger fans and their betting dollars. The World Cup next year is expected to unleash a torrent of betting in Hong Kong -- so much so that the government said this month that it would consider legalizing gambling on soccer matches. If it does, the Jockey Club will most likely argue that it should be the sole agent for taking bets.
The Jockey Club is also no longer shy about its good works. Where once the club donated anonymously, it now requests that beneficiaries put the club's name and insignia on new buildings.
In its annual report, the club lists 170 organizations to which it donated money last year. The gifts ranged from $6.1 million for a youth camp at a hospital to $32,000 to hold a tree-planting day.
"When I joined the club, I found that the attitude here was a bit unhealthy," Mr. Wong said. "We were almost apologetic to society because we were in the gaming business. People thought we were a profit-making company, because we didn't communicate to them where the money went."
So Mr. Wong, trim and 61, finds himself explaining the Jockey Club -- to the public, to the government and to the news media. It is an odd turn of events for a man who, before taking the helm of the club, had spent exactly one day at a race track -- as a young Ford executive in Detroit.
Then again, his memory of that day neatly sums up his current challenge. "I was afraid if anyone saw me," he said, "my career would be over."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An old photograph shows the Hong Kong Jockey Club's Happy Valley Racecourse just after World War II. (Associated Press); Lawrence T. Wong, an American businessman, became the Jockey Club's first chief executive of Chinese descent when he took over in 1996.; More than a million Hong Kong residents bet regularly on horse racing.; Mr. Wong recruited Winfried Engelbrecht-Bresges, left, a prominent German horse breeder, to improve Jockey Club racing, and Timothy P. McNally, a former F.B.I. agent, as the club's security director. (Photographs by Daniel J. Groshong/Tayo Photo Group for The New York Times)(pg. 15); A fan studied the odds, above, before the start of a race at the Sha Tin track, one of many operating in Hong Kong. (Photographs by Daniel J. Groshong/Tayo Photo Group for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Thoroughbred Givers"The Hong Kong Jockey Club, which operates two race tracks and is a huge source of social welfare in the former British colony, says it is threatened by Internet gambling. If the club were American, it would rank 12th among the top 100 philanthropic organizations. RANK: 1CHARITY: Lilly EndowmentHEADQUARTERS: Ind.CHARITABLE GIVING*: $558,287,507 RANK: 2CHARITY: Ford FoundationHEADQUARTERS: N.Y.CHARITABLE GIVING*: 511,825,000 RANK: 3CHARITY: David and Lucile Packard FoundationHEADQUARTERS: Calif.CHARITABLE GIVING*: 391,568,231 RANK: 4CHARITY: Robert Wood Johnson FoundationHEADQUARTERS: N.J.CHARITABLE GIVING*: 290,249,646 RANK: 5CHARITY: Pew Charitable TrustsHEADQUARTERS: Pa.CHARITABLE GIVING*: 211,053,071 RANK: 6CHARITY: W. K. Kellogg FoundationHEADQUARTERS: Mich.CHARITABLE GIVING*: 202,919,594 RANK: 7CHARITY: Robert W. Woodruff FoundationHEADQUARTERS: Calif.CHARITABLE GIVING*: 191,355,356 RANK: 8CHARITY: California EndowmentHEADQUARTERS: Ill.CHARITABLE GIVING*: 178,411,043 RANK: 9CHARITY: John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur FoundationHEADQUARTERS: N.Y.CHARITABLE GIVING*: 172,500,000 RANK: 10CHARITY: Andrew W. Mellon FoundationHEADQUARTERS: N.Y.CHARITABLE GIVING*: 161,501,133 RANK: 11CHARITY: Rockefeller FoundationHEADQUARTERS: N.Y.CHARITABLE GIVING*: 149,343,068 RANK: 12CHARITY: Hong Kong Jockey ClubHEADQUARTERS: Hong KongCHARITABLE GIVING*: 147,917,419 *Most recent fiscal year(Sources: Foundation Center, Hong Kong Jockey Club)(pg. 15) Chart: "Falling Behind"In an effort to maintain revenue, the Hong Kong Jockey Club has added to the number of races each season. But the races are not drawing as many spectators. Graphs show the races per 10-month season, average race attendance, and annual betting revenue from 1996-2000. (Source: Hong Kong Jockey Club)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (91%); HORSES (90%); GAMING (89%); FOUNDATIONS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); CHARITIES (74%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (72%); PHILANTHROPY (70%); GOLF (67%); WORLD WAR II (62%) HORSE RACING; GAMBLING; PHILANTHROPY; HAPPY VALLEY RACETRACK (HONG KONG); FINANCES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: THE JOCKEY CLUB (82%); FOUNDATION CENTER (59%) HONG KONG JOCKEY CLUB 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (51%); F (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (51%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) HONG KONG (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%) HONG KONG

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



460 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2757 words

HEADLINE: How Did They Value Stocks? Count the Absurd Ways; 
Those Lofty 'New Economy' Measures Fizzle

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
IT has now become painfully clear, and last week's gyrations only added more proof, that Wall Street is a different place than it was even a short time ago. A brutish, bearish market has brought with it deflated hopes and new realities.
 Among the harsh realities one stands out. Of all the hot air generated during the great bull market of the late 1990's, none propelled stock prices further than the notion that new economy stocks were a breed apart and should not be held to stringent, old economy investing standards. Internet companies and cutting-edge telecommunications concerns, after all, were revolutionizing the world. So, the thinking went, their share prices deserved equally radical valuation methods. Out went traditional methods used by securities analysis that prized earnings. In came freewheeling measures of worth, like revenue growth, Web site traffic and even customer "share of mind." 
 "The view was, 'We've got a new technology, therefore it's perfectly okay to have a new way of approaching the income statement and balance sheet,' " said Anthony Maramarco, a portfolio manager at the Babson Value Fund in Boston. "But sooner or later you have to generate cash and if all you're doing is using cash, you can only play that game for so long." 
That game, as investors are learning to their extreme distress, is definitely over. When stocks were galloping ahead, investors were happy to take their eyes off earnings and seize instead upon surging "page views" to justify high stock prices. Who needs positive cash flow when the numbers of "engaged shoppers" are flying? Why bother with the ways of Graham and Dodd, the classic value-hunters, when Wall Street was offering investors the lure of new investing metrics?
Henry Blodget, Merrill Lynch's celebrity Internet analyst, may have put the new economy view best on Jan. 10, 2000, when he wrote in a report, "Valuation is often not a helpful tool in determining when to sell hypergrowth stocks." Mr. Blodget was referring specifically to Internet Capital Group, an incubator of Web companies that was trading at $173.88 then -- and $3 a share now.
But he could have been discussing any one of the many highflying stocks that caught investors' fancies.
In their infatuations, perhaps the biggest mistake investors made during the bull market was to believe corporate propaganda about which numbers supposedly provided the best window on the state of their operations.
"Public relations is driving financial reporting," said Jack Ciesielski, publisher of The Analyst's Accounting Observer newsletter, and president of R. G. Associates, in Baltimore. "Everybody's picking the metric they will be judged on. But investors are partly to blame for not wanting to live with what the earnings were telling them. It sounds lame or unhip but, if the earnings aren't there, why grasp at straws?"
Now, with the prices of almost all these former highfliers in the cellar and the overall stock market deep in bear market territory, investors are seeing how wrong they were to ignore excessive valuation levels and to buy stocks based on ephemera like "engaged shoppers" or so-called pro forma results. Suddenly, new economy rationalizations to buy stocks look as ludicrous as the old economy measures looked hopelessly quaint a year ago. Shellshocked investors -- who have lost almost $4 trillion in market value since a year ago -- are wondering just what hit them and how to pick up the pieces.
Survivors of previous market fads that fizzled have some advice. The best thing investors can do to keep their portfolios safe from future devastation, they say, is to learn from their mistakes. Only by understanding how they allowed themselves to embrace the new economy valuation fad can they inoculate themselves from such ills in the days ahead.
Lesson One is as simple as caveat emptor: when investors rely on others for investment research, they must be extremely careful. Since the analysis provided by most big brokerage firms is tainted by their use of upbeat research reports as magnets for investment-banking deals, the painful truth is that investors who buy and sell individual stocks have to learn to do some of their own research on companies to judge their results and their prospects. Just in time for annual report season, stock investors have to go back to perusing balance sheets and income statements.
'THERE ought to be a law in this country that before you're allowed to buy a stock you have to be able to read its balance sheet," said Bill Fleckenstein, a money manager at Fleckenstein Capital in Seattle. "That's where companies try to hide everything. That's where all the shenanigans show up."
A close scrutiny of balance sheets was decidedly missing during much of the late-1990's bull market, even in many Wall Street analysts' reports. As a result, many investors missed such warning signs as bloating inventories and rising accounts receivables that foretold a slowdown in sales at many technology companies. These included Gateway, Cisco Systems, Nortel Networks and Alcatel.
Steve Galbraith, an equity strategist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said that in the final years of the technology stock boom, equity investors took on the role of financing fledgling companies -- early in their development -- that venture capitalists had traditionally assumed. Normally, companies cannot go public without a track record that proved their ability to turn a profit.
Not this time around. "The entire seasoning period for relatively high-risk equity investments was condensed into months, not years," Mr. Galbraith said. As a result, in the first quarter of 2000, fewer than one in five companies that made initial public stock offerings had profitable operations. In 1995, almost two-thirds of new issuers were profitable when they took their stocks public.
Another measure of how willing many investors were to suspend their disbelief during the mania was the period in 2000 during which the more money a company lost, the better its stock did, while the more money a company earned, the worse its stock fared. Think Amazon.com, iVillage and Priceline, all of which took pride in the amounts of money they were spending.
Just as investors felt that earnings were no longer a necessary ingredient for stocks to steam skyward, neither did they find reason for concern when companies appeared to be burning through their cash. On July 12, 2000, for example, Michael Parekh, an Internet strategist at Goldman Sachs who oversees a group of analysts that cover 60 Internet companies, including Inktomi, DoubleClick and AOL Time Warner, wrote a report arguing that the cash burned by dot-com companies was "primarily an investor sentiment issue" and not a long-term risk for the sector.
Eight months later, a lack of cash has brought about the demise of hundreds of Internet companies and has hammered the results of leading companies like Yahoo. Mr. Parekh was correct that it was not a long-term risk for the sector. As it turned out, it was an immediate risk.
Mr. Parekh said on Friday that the slowdown in the economy that followed his July report suddenly changed the entire picture. "Cash burn is a critical issue for us and it is not a metric we ignored," he said. "But we've had a whole new set of issues around the economy which temper the pace at which traditional companies are spending on technology. These companies were making progress in the third quarter, then on top of that the universe of all these companies got hit by the economy slowing down."
Of course, analysts like Mr. Parekh cannot be held entirely accountable for the money investors have lost in new economy stocks. Investors themselves must take responsibility for succumbing to a market fad. After all, they allowed themselves to be convinced that these companies were in fact different from traditional concerns and should be subject to less-stringent valuation standards.
Every bull market has its own peculiar investment fad, of course. In the great one of the 1960's, for example, the conglomerate was king. Companies like Litton Industries and Textron thrived by swallowing up other companies on the theory that owning different kinds of businesses with different business cycles would protect them from downturns in the economy.
BETWEEN 1966 and 1969, when the ardor for conglomerates was at its height, investors believed that their share prices could never fall. Then, in 1970, they plunged, and with them went the conventional wisdom.
More recently, the investment fad was to justify exorbitant prices of technology stocks based, in part, on a litany of so-called nonfinancial metrics. These included customer loyalty, Web-site traffic and "engaged shoppers." Never mind that none of these translated into profits or even, in some cases, revenues.
Mary Meeker, a star Internet analyst at Morgan Stanley, was among the many Internet and technology analysts citing upbeat "usage metrics" as reasons to buy stocks. In a report on drugstore.com published in October, Ms. Meeker cited the company's popularity as a Web shopping destination as a reason to own the stock. She noted that page views per user per month rose to 14.9 in the third quarter, up from 12.5 in August. Then she pointed out the superiority of drugstore.com to competitor PlanetRX's monthly page views of 10.3 as an indication that drugstore.com customers were more satisfied.
"Additionally," Ms. Meeker pointed out, "drugstore.com maintained a level of 48 percent engaged shoppers (a unique user who views at least three minutes of content within the category) ahead of PlanetRx, which had 45 percent." No mention of whether an "engaged shopper" ever became a spending shopper. Drugstore.com recently traded at $1.16, down 54 percent from its price when Ms. Meeker penned her report. (PlanetRx, which Nasdaq has de-listed, is trading at 29 cents a share.)
Last week, Ms. Meeker explained that her use of nonfinancial metrics began back in 1993 with Intuit and AOL and had proved, in those cases, to be a fine way to measure future performance. Both companies lost money initially on their customers, but Ms. Meeker said she thought that if they kept their customers happy they could expand their customer base. And that would in turn drive revenues and, later, earnings. She was proven right.
"The value of a business is its future cash flows," Ms. Meeker said. "The challenge is figuring out what those future cash flows are. If a company wins in its marketplace, if the market is attractive enough and big enough, and if we can find the company that is going to be a leader, the challenge is to find out how customers can be monetized."
About drugstore.com, Ms. Meeker said the jury was still out. "These things take a long time to evolve," she said. "If there is a health and beauty market online, we think drugstore will be a leader. If there isn't, the stock will continue to be a disappointment."
Wall Street analysts were not the only ones citing nonfinancial metrics as key to investors. Last year, in its Global Online Retailing Report, Ernst & Young tried to identify performance measures most valued by e-commerce investors. The study of 31 public companies spanned 18 months, beginning in early 1999. In the second quarter of 2000, Ernst & Young found that investors were concentrating on two factors: gross profits (earnings before many expenses like depreciation and interest costs) and total Web-site visits. Net income, perhaps because so many e-commerce companies had none, was not relevant.
Another nonfinancial metric was the so-called share of consumers' minds that a company demonstrated. Homestore.com, for example, had a "leading mind share among consumers" according to a Morgan Stanley research report dated Oct. 20, 2000. The proof for this claim was that approximately 72 percent of the total time spent by Internet users on real-estate-related Web sites in September was spent on Homestore's properties.
But having a leading mind share could not keep Homestore.com's stock from sliding 26 percent to $19.31 since that report.
Ms. Meeker said: "On Homestore.com, our point of view is that many people will look for homes online and Homestore will be in a leading position. We're willing to make a bet that they will be able to monetize those users."
Mr. Ciesielski, the accounting expert, said investors' interest in nonfinancial information was not detrimental when combined with financial analysis. The problem is, during the Internet craze, investors weighed the nonfinancial data too heavily, he said. 
'I USED to cover railroads and airlines, and they used to have this wonderful nonfinancial information every month about miles traveled or carloads loaded," Mr. Ciesielski said. "Analysts looked at that, but just to reinforce where earnings were going to go. They weren't grasping at straws. If carloads were going down, you knew earnings were going down."
Although many chastened investors have sworn off the use of Internet page views or engaged Web shoppers to help them make their stock picks, another bull market promotional practice by corporations continues apace even after the bear has awakened. That is the peddling of so-called pro forma numbers, which eliminate pesky expenses from a company's results and make earnings look better. Using Alice-in-Wonderland explanations, new economy companies said that for them these figures better reflected their operating results than those arrived at using generally accepted accounting principles.
How pro forma earnings are conjured varies by company, but often excluded are line items like interest expenses and payroll taxes, thus burnishing the company's results.
Asking investors to ignore these costs -- which the companies must pay in cold, hard cash -- is asking them to accept a fiction about a company's results.
In the old days, companies would include pro forma numbers in financial statements after an acquisition to reflect how the two newly combined companies would have performed if they had been joined for the entire year before the merger. Now, pro forma numbers mean something much more sinister and are becoming practically ubiquitous. Anyone interested in the traditional earnings number has to dig deep into the press releases.
To measure how common pro forma numbers have become, investors can search the Web sites of BusinessWire.com or PRNewswire.com to find companies using them. In a three-day period alone last week, a search on PRNewswire produced 36 citings of pro forma figures.
Companies accentuating the positive through the use of pro forma numbers include Palm, Intel, Yahoo and Cisco. More obscure companies that do so include Stanford Micro Devices and Engage.
At Yahoo and Cisco, for example, pro forma operating income meant excluding the expense of payroll taxes. At Level 8 Systems, a software provider, a net loss of $4 million in the third quarter last year was transformed into pro forma net income of $1.8 million by adding back noncash charges like depreciation and amortization of intangible assets.
The creativity goes on and on. Mr. Ciesielski thinks that the vast number of corporations using pro forma figures have made earnings releases increasingly dubious. "The whole concept of what's earnings and what's on the cash-flow statement has become so bastardized that nothing makes much sense any more," he said.
INVESTORS can thank the raiders of the 1980's for the current love affair with pro forma numbers, Mr. Ciesielski said. "Back then, people would look at companies with ugly earnings, but they had good cash flow underneath because depreciation was big," he said. The leveraged buyout boom, he said, "was largely fueled by amateurs trying to find companies with big depreciation charges."
"And in the 90's, we all jumped on that, taking out the parts we didn't need to prove our point," he added.
Mr. Ciesielski advises investors to pay no attention to pro forma numbers and to do their own math to find out where companies really stand.
Byron Wien, chief United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley, is fearful that companies that spin their results using pro forma figures could do serious damage to investor confidence in the financial markets. "Corporations have a lot of flexibility in how they report results," he said. "Nobody knows more about the truth than the corporate executives themselves. Taking a short-term view of truth may make things look good in a quarterly report. But it will ultimately catch up with them."
That is a good description of what seems to be happening today.

GRAPHIC: Photos: (pg. 1); "Investors are partly to blame for not wanting to live with what the earnings were telling them," said Jack Ciesielski, an accounting expert. (Ann Grillo for The New York Times); Steve Galbraith of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter noted that many companies had gone public with no track record for earnings.; Companies' use of pro forma figures could backfire, said Byron Wien, chief United States investment strategist at Morgan Stanley. (pg. 14) Chart: "Track Record"When stock prices were booming, fewer companies had to show profits to lure investors. Graphs shows percentage of I.P.O.'s that made money when they first went public from 1995-1999 and 1st quarter-4th quarter of 2000. (Source: Morgan Stanley Dean Witter)(pg. 14) Chart: "Show Me The Money"During the dot-com days, analysts and companies alike invented ways to describe performance and explain high stock prices, none of which had much to do with profit. Here are a few examples of these new metrics. Graphs shows PETS.COM (Average time spent on the site) and stock prices from February-December 2000. Graphs show PRICELINE.COM (Net unique offers by users from 1st quarter 1999 to 4th quarter 2000) and stock prices. Graphs show HOMESTORE.COM (Share of online real estate eyeball minutes, June 2000) HOMESTORE.COM HOME-ADVISOR: 6%MOVE.COM: 17%CLASSIFIED VENTURES: 5%HOMESTORE.COM: 72% Graph shows homes viewed and stock prices.Friday's close: $19.31 *Estimate(Sources: Bond & Pecaro; Morgan Stanley Dean Witter; Media Metrix; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); BONDS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); CASH FLOW (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); ICG GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: ICGE (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC2141 TOBACCO STEMMING & REDRYING (52%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



461 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: The American Risk in Japan 

BYLINE:  By Jeffrey E. Garten; Jeffrey E. Garten, dean of the Yale School of Management, is author of "The Mind of the C.E.O."

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN 

 BODY:
We have often seen how the fate of the American economy cannot be divorced from global markets, and how even a spark abroad can create a fire at home. In 1987, for example, the stock market crash was precipitated in part by a dispute between Washington and Bonn over interest rates and trade. In 1998, a financial crisis that began in Thailand ultimately spread until it forced a dramatic bailout of one of America's largest hedge funds -- a rescue that prevented an implosion of many American banks. Now Japan is the trouble spot that ought to keep us up at night.
 When Tokyo's economic bubble burst in the early 1990's, we held our breath because it seemed the world's second-largest economy couldn't go into a tailspin without taking the global marketplace with it. In the end the fallout was contained, but that was the result of unusual circumstances. America was entering a powerful business expansion, Europe was boosted by a new common currency and a burst of internal deregulation, and Mexico, India, China and other nations were reaping the rewards of having recently opened their economies to foreign trade and investment. In that heady environment, Japanese stagnation didn't have as much global impact as we feared it would. 
 The current global economic scene, in which America and Japan together still account for over a third of global production, is starkly different. America is headed for recession, European growth is slowing and most emerging markets are fragile. With other engines of the world economy spluttering, further deterioration of the Japanese economy could finally have a serious effect on us.
Today, Japan's economic growth is stagnant, property values are declining, government and corporate debts are at an all-time high. Despite the fact that Tokyo has poured trillions of yen into public works and lowered interest rates to negligible levels, not only has the economy failed to respond, but serious deflation is in the air. Adding to the woes, the country's political leadership is in meltdown, with Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori having agreed to resign next month, leaving behind a fractured one-party system of exhausted politicians bereft of new ideas for how to reverse Japan's descent.
One looming problem is that as the Japanese economy contracts, so could American exports. This would hurt the earnings of many of our most important companies, further impairing their stock prices. But the Japanese banking system, already choking on bad debts, is the major point of vulnerability. The reason is that Japanese banks carry much of their reserves in the form of Japanese equities, and the major stock market index has now declined to its lowest levels in more than a decade. If some Japanese banks become insolvent, that could impair the health of foreign banks that have extended loans to them or that have other complex financial relationships. A crippled banking system would be unable to extend credit and would therefore drag down Japanese companies, too. In recent days, the Japanese government has acknowledged these acute problems, but given its miserable track record, whether it will address them effectively is another question.
If Japan's problems mount, companies there could begin liquidating their investments abroad. In the late 1980's American officials and business leaders worried that Japan would sell some of its American holdings as leverage to get the United States to ease its pressure to open the Japanese economy to trade. Most experts concluded that would never happen because the value of the Treasury securities held by Japanese was so vast that selling some would weaken the price of the billions they still held. However, if Japanese investors become sufficiently desperate now, selling may be the only option.
Japanese entities still own some $350 billion of Treasuries, about 25 percent of all such holdings outside of the United States, not to mention hundreds of billions of other marketable bonds and stocks. Japanese firms own some $150 billion in direct investments in America, more than those held by any other foreign country except for the United Kingdom. And Japanese companies employ over 550,000 Americans.
A Japanese sell-off of American assets could mean more downward pressure on our softening economy -- more surplus property, more layoffs. It could mean that the Japanese would exchange dollars for yen, weakening the dollar, which in turn would lead to increases in the price of imports that are now crucial to our economy. Rising prices in a no-growth economy -- stagflation -- may be more possible than we think.
Everyone wants and expects the Federal Reserve to bail out the economy, not only by lowering interest rates on Tuesday when the Open Market Committee meets, but also by lowering rates over the next several months. But if Japanese investors sell off their American assets and cause the dollar to sink, the Fed could face an agonizing dilemma. On the one hand, cutting interest rates could help revitalize the economy and the stock market. But it could also further weaken the dollar by making dollar-based returns less attractive, thereby discouraging European and Latin American investors from continuing to invest in American securities.
We have seen how herd-like markets can run wild, and were there to be a precipitous decline of the dollar, the Fed would have to consider holding rates steady or even temporarily raising them. This is not a position that Alan Greenspan would want to be in. As consumers, investors, employers and employees, neither would we.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Pascal Le Maitre) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); POLITICS (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (95%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



462 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/William B. Frels; 
Mairs and Power Balanced Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
WILLIAM B. FRELS finds a lot of the conservative growth he wants in companies based in the Upper Midwest, which account for one-third of the $42 million Mairs and Power Balanced fund.
 "These are companies in our own backyard," Mr. Frels said from his offices in St. Paul, Minn., overlooking the Mississippi River. "We have an unusually large number of attractive companies in this region. We know them pretty well and the information flow is good." 
 A hefty chunk of the fund's holdings are clustered in the Twin Cities area itself: Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, the St. Paul Companies, the H. B. Fuller Company and Supervalu Inc.
His local focus has paid off for investors. The fund returned 7.9 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, compared with 3.9 percent for its domestic hybrid peers and 4.5 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Morningstar.
Beating the market is impressive, given that just 62 percent of the fund is invested in stocks; the balance is in bonds. Over all, the portfolio yields an average of 3.1 percent, nearly triple the yield for the S.& P. 500 .
Mr. Frels, 61, works closely with his three colleagues at Mairs and Power, which manages about $600 million for institutions and individuals. The firm also runs the $570 million Mairs and Power Growth fund, which returned 9.6 percent a year, on average, in the three years ended Thursday, Morningstar said.
For the balanced fund, Mr. Frels looks for companies with above-average growth prospects over the next three to five years, focusing on companies in Minnesota, Illinois and Wisconsin. Among the 45 stocks, the sole overseas holding is Barclays Bank preferred shares.
He uses no computer screens to identify purchases, relying instead on his and his colleagues' collective 127 years of experience. "Most of our investment ideas are word-of-mouth," he said. "We talk to companies and find out who their strong competition is."
They do not need many new ideas, he added: the fund's portfolio turnover rate is an exceptionally low 12.5 percent a year. Low turnover also helps minimize taxes for investors.
To capture growth, Mr. Frels looks for high-quality companies of any size that hold dominant market positions or particular areas of expertise that give them a competitive edge. Because he wants minimum annual earnings growth of 10 to 12 percent, he avoids cyclical and slow-growing industries like automobiles.
Management is key. He looks for management continuity and for executives who own significant stakes in their companies.
Mr. Frels says he will not overpay for growth. "We don't like to pay more than twice the company's growth rate," he said, adding that he hopes to buy stocks whose price-to-earnings multiples are no more than a company's earnings growth rate.
While financial stocks are the biggest sector, at 19.1 percent of the fund's equity assets, Mr. Frels has raised the technology stake, from 8.3 percent to more than 10 percent, as stock prices have deflated.
The bond part of the portfolio is generally concentrated in high-quality issues, usually Treasuries and corporate bonds rated A or higher. But, he said, the slowing economy has created good opportunities in medium-quality corporate bonds, which are yielding an average of two to three percentage points more than Treasury issues. He has split the bond portion equally between corporate and government issues, though the more typical mix is two-thirds government and one-third corporate bonds.
Expenses are a low 0.93 percent a year, partly because Mairs and Power reduces costs by marketing the fund in only 12 states. These include New York, New Jersey, California, Texas, Florida and Arizona.
In January, Mr. Frels bought shares of H. B. Fuller for an average cost of $36.46. Fuller manufactures a wide variety of adhesives used in the building and automotive industries, among others. "The adhesives business grows slightly faster than the U.S. gross domestic product," Mr. Frels said, "but Fuller has shown an ability to increase its market share in the past." Management has been moving out of slower-growth adhesive products, he added, into faster-growing, more profitable ones. He expects earnings to grow 10 percent, on average, over the next five years. 
On Friday, shares closed at $40.38. Another favorite is Corning Inc., which produces high-technology glass and ceramic products. Corning, which formerly produced glass and cookware, is now a world leader in fiber optic cable, Mr. Frels said, adding, "They hold a leading position in the communications industry, which we feel will continue to be one of the fastest-growing industries over the foreseeable future."
HE trimmed his position last winter and early spring, when the stock price, floating on the technology bubble, peaked at $113.32 in the third quarter of 2000, adjusted for splits. He repurchased some in February at an average cost of $34 a share. Despite the economic slowdown, he expects a five-year earnings growth rate averaging 20 percent. "Earnings have flattened out with the sharp cutback in capital spending," he said, "but we feel that it's a very temporary condition."
Corning shares closed Friday at $23.18.
In January, Mr. Frels bought 7 7/8 percent bonds due in 2009 issued by Supervalu, a Minneapolis food wholesaler, for $968.50, a discount from their $1,000 face value. Supervalu also operates grocery store chains that include Cub Foods, which has more than 125 discount superstores, mostly in Minneapolis, St. Paul, Chicago and Denver. "The bond is being priced more at the low end of the investment-grade range," he said. "We feel that the quality of the company and its finances are better than the bond rating suggests."
The bonds closed Friday at $979.60.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William B. Frels of Mairs and Power in St. Paul, Minn., finds many of his investments close to home, in companies in the Upper Midwest. (Steve Wewerka for The New York Times) Chart: "Mairs and Power Balanced" Category: Domestic hybridNet assets: $42 millionInception: January 1961Manager: William B. Frels since July 1992Minimum purchase: $2,500 ($1,000 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 12.5%3-year annualized return through Thursday: 7.9%Category average: 3.9% Sector breakdown Bonds: 31%Energy: 8%Other: 23%Financial: 19%Technology: 10%Health care: 9% Fees Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 0.93% (Source: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: TRAVELERS COS INC (71%); SUPERVALU INC (70%); H B FULLER CO (70%); 3M CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MAIRS AND POWERS BALANCED (MUTUAL FUND) 

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (71%); SVU (NYSE) (70%); FUL (NYSE) (70%); MMM (SWX) (57%); MMM (NYSE) (57%); MMM (FRA) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (71%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (70%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (70%); NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2891 ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (70%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (57%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; FRELS, WILLIAM B 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (93%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (91%); MIDWEST USA (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



463 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: GRASS ROOTS BUSINESS; 
Downtown Revival Comes to the South

BYLINE:  By JOEL KOTKIN; Joel Kotkin is a senior fellow at the Davenport Institute for Public Policy at Pepperdine University. His column on the Main Street economy appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: grassrts@nytimes.com

DATELINE: HUNTSVILLE, Ala. 

 BODY:
FOR much of his career, Patrick C. Sommers lived and worked in some of the world's most established urban business centers, like Chicago, London and Toronto. Yet today, Mr. Sommers, now chief executive of the Sirsi Corporation, a private company that makes software for libraries, finds himself comfortably ensconced in the small urban core of this technology-rich city of 177,000.
 "I am a big-city guy, but I like it," said Mr. Sommers, 53. 
 His attraction to Huntsville and Sirsi's restored brick headquarters here reflects a broader trend that is only now sweeping Southern cities. For much of the last two decades -- even as Northern and Western cities enjoyed urban recoveries -- virtually all growth in the old Confederacy took place along the periphery.
Today this is changing. In cities throughout the South -- from Charlotte's "uptown" to Atlanta's burgeoning midtown to downtown Houston -- there has been a rapid growth of urban development. Local business leaders and economic development professionals say it was necessary not only to bolster the local economy but to lure workers.
Yet despite recent changes, most Southern metropolitan areas still have a very low percentage of their office space actually located in their central business districts. Whereas metropolitan regions like Chicago or New York have more than half of their office space in their central business districts, Southern cities like Nashville, Memphis and Atlanta have at least three-quarters of their office work force located in suburban and peripheral locations. 
Inman Allen, president of the Ivan Allen Furniture Company in Atlanta and a long-term observer of southern urban trends, blamed the South's slow urban development on historic trends. For one thing, the South embraced industry later than cities in the Northeast or Midwest. And by the time the Industrial Revolution hit the South with full force, largely after World War II, development patterns favored suburban areas. At the same time, the South often lacked financial backing for development.
But more recently, many Southern cities, including Huntsville, have rediscovered the economic advantage of developing dynamic urban cores, said Mr. Allen, whose father, Ivan Allen, served as mayor of Atlanta from 1962 to 1970. For one thing, it makes it easier to recruit young workers, who often come from the East or West Coasts and are critical to technology and business service firms. 
Like other Southern cities, Huntsville's growth has been slow and steady. In 1950, the city had a population of 15,000 with an economy centered around cotton and agriculture. But it was transformed into a sprawling, high-technology metropolis with the arrival of Dr. Werner von Braun and his rocket team, who were working for the Army. In 1960, NASA established the George C. Marshall Space Flight Center at the Army's Redstone Arsenal here.
Starting in the late 1960's, spinoffs from federally funded aerospace research and development fed a growing private industry. And over the last decade, Huntsville has enjoyed some of the fastest growth in technology in the nation. The city now ranks fifth among major metropolitan areas in terms of software workers per capita, according to a recent study by the Software and Information Industry Association. Many large computer and telecommunications companies, such as the Computer Sciences Corporation of El Segundo, Calif., Cinram International of Scarborough, Ontario, and Nokia of Finland, plan major expansions for this area.
Huntsville's technological base is becoming less federally oriented -- its dependence on government contracts has dropped to 50 percent today from 80 percent a decade ago. And workers being recruited by local businesses are less oriented toward suburban living than when aerospace businesses predominated. 
ASHOK K. SINGHAL, president of the CFD Research Corporation, a software maker that employs 120 workers, two-thirds of whom have Ph.D.'s, says that many software writers look for a stimulating urban environment. Couples in which one person has a career in a more culturally oriented profession -- such as graphic arts or advertising -- sometimes refuse to move to Huntsville because its working environment, which has been based on industrial office parks, is often viewed as boring. 
Dr. Singhal said these factors, combined with what is widely described as the "Alabama" stigma, which is associated with images of racial prejudice and rural backwardness from past decades, sharply limits recruitment. "Huntsville has done well to create the atmosphere and lifestyle that we have, but the suffix 'Alabama' hurts us more than anything," Dr. Singhal said. "This is one of our biggest recruiting problems." 
In 1997, to create an environment that would attract the necessary high-technology workers, Sirsi decided to move from the Cummings Industrial Park outside Huntsville to the city's then-struggling downtown. Its main office is now a former Kress Department store built in the early 1900's.
Jim Young, one of the firm's three co-founders, says the move appealed to the more urban, eclectic tastes common among Sirsi employees. A large proportion of the company's recruits, Mr. Young said, come from major cities. Mr. Young said the tastes of these workers were quite different than those of the traditional "number crunching" technologists who predominated the industrial parks. "We have more creative people who want a more relaxed environment close to the museums and the theaters," he said. "It's a different kind of place."
In many ways the atmosphere at Sirsi -- which has 1,000 customers, including libraries at Stanford University, the United States Census Bureau and Britain's House of Commons -- seems more like that of a company in the South of Market neighborhood of San Francisco or Boston's cyber district than that of a Southern boomtown. Employees work in brightly colored cubicles near exposed brick walls; part of the work space is given over to Lego toys and plants. "We didn't set out to make it like a Boston company, but it ended up that way," Mr. Young said.
At first, Sirsi's move downtown seemed a bit odd to many longtime residents of Huntsville. Yet as the company has expanded, nearly doubling its work force in the last three years, the relaxed and funky ambience of the company's headquarters has served as a major inducement when recruiting people into the company, said Debbie Collins, its director of administrative services. Half of the company's highly educated workers are foreign born.
Before Sirsi moved in three years ago, the downtown "was half empty -- people looked at it as absolutely dead," said Lynne Lowery, a Huntsville native and director of the Huntsville Association, the city's historic preservation group. Now most of the 100-acre area -- dominated by late 19th- and early 20th-century structures -- is either fully occupied or under restoration, not only for offices but for retail shops and restaurants. Other companies, including AniVision, a software company specializing in computer games, as well as several banks and professional service providers have added to the transformation of the downtown.
"Working downtown is really different," said Cheryll Milius, 34, a Los Angeles native, who is a customer consultant at Sirsi. "There's more walking. You don't have to drive to go out for lunch with people. I never expected this could happen in a place like Huntsville."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the offices of Sirsi, a software maker in Huntsville, Ala., Doug Childs, standing, made his cubicle into a castle with Lego blocks. (Photographs by John Godbey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SUBURBS (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); ARMIES (71%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (70%); SPACE EXPLORATION (70%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (65%); MAYORS (65%); ARMED FORCES (64%); WORLD WAR II (62%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; URBAN AREAS 

COMPANY: IVAN ALLEN FURNITURE CO (82%); SIRSI CORP (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%)

PERSON: KOTKIN, JOEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (92%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); WEST USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%) SOUTHERN STATES (US); HUNTSVILLE (ALA)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



464 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
AIDS Groups Revive A Fight, and Themselves

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IT was difficult not to hear echoes of the past when members of Act Up, the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power, staged a "die-in" last week outside the headquarters of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America here. The props -- cardboard tombstones, chalked body outlines -- were familiar. Only the rallying cry, "medication for every nation," was new.
 The AIDS activist movement was born in the late 1980's with the pharmaceutical industry as its nemesis; at that time, the issue was access to experimental medications and the price of AZT. Then drug cocktails turned the disease, at least for many people in this country, from a killer into a chronic illness. The industry became a savior, the activism lost its urgency and the epidemic fell off the American radar screen. 
 Now AIDS is back on the front page, and the activists are back in business, drawing strength from their old enemy. 
This time, drug makers are caught in a squeeze play, hemmed in on one side by moral outrage over the plight of Africans dying for lack of medications readily available in the United States, and on the other by an intense pharmaceutical pricing debate here at home. 
"Africa is the most dramatic example of a situation where drugs are available that would make a big difference and yet people can't afford them," said John Rother, vice president of AARP, formerly the American Association of Retired Persons. "It may be very dramatic in Africa, but it is really a very similar situation on a day-to-day basis to seniors in this country who do not have drug coverage." 
Americans had a quick course in pharmaceutical economics during last year's presidential campaign. They found out that elderly people must sometimes choose between buying pills and food and often go to Mexico or Canada to buy cheaper drugs. They learned that pharmaceuticals cost more here than anywhere else in the world. They became acquainted with the concepts of intellectual property and patent rights. 
These issues are now playing out on the global stage. In South Africa, protests erupted this month over a lawsuit brought by 39 big drug companies seeking to block the country from buying inexpensive generic AIDS drugs. At the same time, Cipla, an Indian drug maker, has asked South Africa for permission to sell its inexpensive versions of 8 of the 15 anti-H.I.V. drugs sold in the United States.
Pharmaceutical giants have been left scrambling for some kind of redemption. "The drug companies, in the public discourse, have begun to look a little bit like the tobacco companies," said Dr. Ronald Bayer, professor of public health at Columbia University. "This story is not just news, it is morally compelling news." 
Last week, Bristol-Myers Squibb announced it would sell two H.I.V. medicines in Africa at just below cost, and would not use its patent on one, Zerit, to stand in the way of generics. The week before, Merck pledged to offer its two AIDS drugs to poor nations at cost.
In both instances, the drug makers took the highly unusual step of disclosing just what "cost" means, and the difference between it and what Americans pay is staggering. Bristol-Myers is offering Zerit at $54 a year, compared with $3,589 in this country. Merck's Crixivan will be priced at $600 a year in Africa, compared with $6,016 here. 
But the price cuts in Africa could backfire in the United States. "It triggers the perception that the companies are sitting on big profits and can lower their prices," said Drew Altman, president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit research group. "What a terrible dilemma for the companies. The more they do the right thing and lower the price of AIDS drugs in the rest of the world, the more it hurts them domestically." 
The manufacturers, for their part, argue that they use the markup to underwrite research. That's a claim activists dispute, saying the companies often rely on government-funded science and inventions by startup biotech firms. At the same time, pharmaceutical executives resist linking domestic politics to the international AIDS crisis. 
"The debate that I have had to live through for the last few years is, 'Why do your drugs cost less in other countries, and isn't that unfair?' " said one pharmaceutical executive. "Whereas this debate is, 'Your drugs should cost less in other countries.' "
Still, it is no accident that Africa's plight is gaining attention now. Africans did not start dying of the disease yesterday; public health officials have been warning of a third-world AIDS holocaust for at least a decade. Today, the World Health Organization estimates that 25 million Africans are infected with the human immunodeficiency virus, which causes AIDS. But only about 10,000 are getting the drugs that could save their lives.
 IN 1999, with the presidential campaigns cranking up, AIDS activists, particularly members of the vocal Act Up chapter in Philadelphia, saw an opportunity to bring the disparity to the fore. They began shadowing Vice President Al Gore, staging noisy rallies that painted him as the pharmaceutical industry's front man in trade talks with South Africa. 
It was an unsettling accusation for a candidate who made the high cost of pharmaceuticals for senior citizens a centerpiece of his campaign, and it worked. The Clinton administration reversed its policy of seeking sanctions against poor nations that, like South Africa, attempt to force down the price of patented AIDS drugs by allowing generics onto the market. And the Bush administration, in a move that surprised the advocates, has kept the Clinton policy in place.
"Luckily, a few reporters started listening to us when we started dogging Al Gore, primarily because the election itself was so boring that they needed a twist," said Eric Sawyer, who helped found Act Up in 1987 and organized the Gore rallies. "But as a result, the public again became engaged in the whole horror of the global AIDS crisis."
In lowering prices, the drug companies make the case that they are doing their part. But many African nations are unable to afford even these rock-bottom prices, and some lack the infrastructure to deliver the life-saving pills. So the debate is already shifting away from the pharmaceutical industry, and toward the question of what wealthy nations can do. 
The question now for the activists is whether they can keep the debate from shifting too far in that direction. They insist they won't allow drug companies to foist the problem off on the government and avoid dropping prices further. "The lower the price," said Katie Krauss, a member of Act Up's Philadelphia chapter, "the more people you can treat." 
At the same time, though, they will be making demands on the Bush administration, both for funding and easing of patent restrictions overseas.
At last week's demonstration, there were signs that this is already happening. A couple of the protesters, veterans of the heady days in the late 1980's when Act Up members disrupted trading on the New York Stock Exchange, turned up in sport coats and ties. They had an important meeting to attend after the die-in, at the United States trade representative's office.

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of perhaps 25 million Africans infected with H.I.V. undressing at his home near Durban, South Africa. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); AIDS & HIV (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); AGING (86%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (86%); EPIDEMICS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); DRUG PRICES (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); ANTIVIRALS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (72%); TOBACCO MFG (72%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); PATENTS (61%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

COMPANY: CIPLA LTD (57%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH & MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA (84%); AARP INC (82%)

TICKER: CIPLA (NSE) (57%); BMY (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



465 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Vertigo; 
Econ 2001: Tips for the Shellshocked

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THE longest economic expansion on record turned 10 years old this month. Some celebration.
 The yearlong swoon in technology stocks spread to old-economy shares last week like foot-and-mouth disease. Industrial production and corporate profits continued to tumble, stepping up pressure on the Federal Reserve to slash interest rates again when it meets on Tuesday, maybe by more than the half-point everyone expects. Hovering over the growing pessimism at home was the shadow of Japan, whose seemingly endless economic and financial woes grew even more acute, further unnerving Wall Street and policy makers in Washington. 
 Is this just a wrenching slowdown to a more sustainable rate of growth after several boom years? Is it the end of the expansion and the beginning of a relatively brief and shallow recession? Or is this what happens when a bubble economy bursts? 
No one knows.
But while it is impossible to predict with certainty where the economy is headed, there are a number of lessons to be gleaned from the experience of the past decade that will frame the decisions ahead:

Lesson No. 1:
This is not your father's business cycle.
The ups and downs of the economy used to follow a predictable path. Economic growth would accelerate until it overheated, setting off inflation. The Federal Reserve would raise interest rates, the economy would fall into recession, the Fed would cut rates -- and the whole cycle would begin again.
At least one of those elements is part of the story this time around: the feeling among some analysts that the Fed jacked rates up too much in 1999 and 2000. But there is much that seems to be different.
For one thing, the economy's ability to respond to change seems to have sped up in the past few years. From supermarket scanners to sophisticated inventory management systems to CNBC, businesses and consumers can draw on vast quantities of information about what is happening as it is happening.
Whatever this period is -- a recession or a slowdown -- it could be over quickly because the problems and solutions are much more immediately evident than in the past.
But the downturn could well turn out to be more extended than in previous cycles. According to one theory making the rounds, this cycle is not so much about demand exceeding supply -- the usual trigger for inflation -- but about overinvestment by businesses in technology, equipment and factories.
In short, the problem may not be too much money chasing too few goods, as in the past; indeed, this cycle has been characterized by an almost total lack of inflation. Rather, it may be too much investment chasing too little return. In that case, the economy might not get back on its feet until businesses begin investing heavily again, and they won't do that until they work off their overcapacity. 
And that process could be delayed by consumers, whose confidence has been eroding. Individuals helped fuel the investment boom by sinking their money into stocks rather than savings accounts. But now they find themselves with shrinking portfolios, heavy debt loads and little in the way of a buffer to help them through tough times.
Some economists think the idea of overinvestment leading to a sustained downturn is exaggerated. But others say recent corporate announcements of steep reductions in capital spending, plus faltering sales and profits among technology companies, suggest there is something to the notion.

Lesson No. 2:
If productivity fades, we're toast.
Perhaps the most fundamental question facing the economy is whether the resurgence in the growth rate of productivity will hold up or fade away with the Nasdaq and the ranks of 24-year-old millionaires.
Productivity is a basic measure of business efficiency, or output per hour, and after languishing for more than two decades it suddenly accelerated about six years ago. 
The assumption is that the improvement is the payoff from the remarkable technological advances of recent decades and the willingness of American businesses, driven to stay competitive in a global economy, to invest heavily in computers and other advanced hardware and software. 
Powered by resurgent productivity, the economy has been able to grow at an annual rate of more than 4 percent in recent years, driving unemployment down to around 4 percent, a 30-year low, while inflation declined. Productivity growth was behind the regular upward revisions in projections of the federal budget surplus. 
Because higher productivity implied bigger profits and higher rates of return, the United States became even more of a magnet for investment from abroad.
Among the pessimists, there are two related strains of thought about productivity: that the gains have been largely limited to the technology industry, and that the improvement will wither as the economy slows. Optimists, led by Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, believe the gains are here to stay and have already lifted a broad spectrum of industries, leaving the economy fundamentally more efficient and competitive.

Lesson No. 3:
Markets rule.
With the trend toward deregulation and free trade in the United States, and with the triumph of democratic capitalism abroad, market forces reign over the global economy.
That has proven to be a positive development in most respects, especially when the economy and the financial markets appeared to have been freed from the laws of gravity.
But markets extract a price, particularly when things are not going well. Just ask the millions of individual investors who made buying stocks and bonds a mass-market sport in the belief that doing so was more or less a one-way bet. At a minimum, a serious downturn or a recession is sure to set off a renewed debate about the degree to which social and economic challenges should be left to market forces. 
Remaking the Social Security system to include personal investment accounts, for example, could be a tough sell for President Bush at a time when workers are seeing minus signs on their 401(k) plan statements. And opening American markets to more foreign competition could be hard if unemployment rises substantially.
Still, market forces create a discipline that leads governments, companies and investors alike to think hard about the soundness of their financial decisions. "The good thing about markets is not that they avoid mistakes, but that they compel you in a speedy fashion to correct them once they are identified -- sometimes in draconian fashion," said Kermit L. Schoenholtz, chief economist at Salomon Smith Barney and Citibank.

Lesson No. 4:
Policy matters.
 During the 1980's, Japan was the rising economic power and the United States was widely seen as a has-been. Japan is now a case study in how not to manage an economy. And the United States, for all its recent troubles, has remade itself as the world's most reliable engine of growth.
In that role reversal is a lesson: political will and policy choices play a critical role even in a borderless and deregulated global economy.
The United States dealt quickly with its savings and loan crisis in the early 1990's, shutting down insolvent banks and selling foreclosed properties at big losses. Faced with a similar situation, Tokyo dithered, and a decade later its financial system continues to teeter near insolvency.
While the Bank of Japan was reluctant at first to cut interest rates, the Federal Reserve has responded quickly and flexibly to changing economic conditions. While Japan has run up staggering budget deficits without stimulating its moribund economy much, the United States is paying off the national debt.

The Test
Seeing clearly.
It is hard enough to make good policy choices when the economy's condition is clear. It is much tougher when the outlook is so murky -- and when the economy's basic structure seems to be evolving rapidly.
Will lowering interest rates still pack enough of a punch to avert a recession, or at least pull the nation out of one quickly? Would a big tax cut give the economy a boost, or send the government down the path of budget deficits and higher interest rates?
Most uncertain of all is the shape of politics in an era of post-prosperity. This is now a nation of investors, and the stock market averages are its collective pulse. It is not yet clear whether Americans will remain calm in the face of turmoil, or whether they will demand that their leaders pay a price for ushering in this wild ride.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heaven help us: A statue of George Washington reaching toward the New York Stock Exchange. (Jake Price) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FOOT & MOUTH DISEASE (72%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (50%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRODUCTION 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



466 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Bear Market Becomes a Reality

BYLINE:  By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN 

 BODY:
The bear is out of hibernation.
 For months, gloomy corporate profit warnings and reports that the economy was slowing took bites out of the markets. 
But last week, the cumulative effect of months of bad news seemed to overwhelm investors and send them scurrying for the exits. On Monday, the broad market measure S.& P. 500 fell into bear territory for the first time since 1987 and the technology-heavy Nasdaq composite fell through the 2,000 level for the first time since December 1998. 
 And the bad company news persisted. Motorola and Compaq announced large job cuts and McDonald's, Northwest Airlines and Oracle issued profit warnings.
 The Dow industrial average had its worst week since October 1989, ending at 9,823.41, down 821.21 points or 7.7 percent. The S.& P. 500 fell to 1,150.53, down 82.89 points or 6.7 percent. The Nasdaq composite finished at 1,890.91, down 161.87 points or 7.9 percent.
 The selloff in the equity markets, and expectations of an interest rate cut when the Federal Reserve meets this week, helped send bond prices higher. The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond ended at 4.76 percent, down from 4.94 percent from the week before. 
 DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" Cisco SystemsNNM: cscoChief Executive John T. Chambers sees the market for computer networking equipment returning to annual growth rates of 30 percent to 50 percent in the long term. The company may buy back some shares.Friday's Close: $19.94Week'S Change: -3.33%EST. '01 P/E: 32.58 General ElectricNYSE: GERegardless of economic conditions, the company said 2001 profit would rise by a double-digit percent-age. It cited an order backlog of more than $44 billion for turbines, air-craft engines and other expensive equipment.Friday's Close: $40.60Week'S Change: -7.33%EST. '01 P/E: 27.23 American GeneralNYSE: AGCIn the largest insurance deal ever, and biggest trans-Atlantic financial services deal ever, Britain's second largest life insurer, Prudential P.L.C., agreed to buy American General for $26.5 billion in stock.Friday's Close: $38.51Week'S Change: +0.68%EST. '01 P/E: 13.35 McDonald'sNySE: MCDThe company said first-quarter earnings would fall more than expected because of slumping sales in Europe, where fear of mad cow disease has weakened customer demand for burgers.Friday's Close: $26.50Week'S Change: -8.46%EST. '01 P/E: 17.10 Northwest AirlinesNNM: NWACThe carrier said it could lose as much as $150 million in the first quarter, more than analysts had expected, as the slowing economy cuts into corporate travel.Friday's Close: $19.94Week'S Change: -11.39%EST. '01 P/E: 10.33 WorldComNNM: WCOMWhile the long-distance telephone and data services company said first-quarter business is doing extremely well, it said its depressed stock price prevented it from making acquisitions.Friday's Close: $17.44Week'S Change: +2.95%EST. '01 P/E: 14.51 H.J. HeinzNYSE: HNZAfter the food maker reported flat third-quarter earnings, it planned cost cuts, including a reduction in the work force and streamlining its tuna and pet food operations.Friday's Close: $40.53Week'S Change: -2.01%EST. '01 P/E: 15.94 Adobe SystemsNnm: ADBEThe publishing software developer met its first-quarter profit target and said sales had picked up in February, but it cut its sales forecast, cautioning that U.S. economic weak-ness could spread abroad.Friday's Close: $28.63Week'S Change: +6.26%EST. '01 P/E: 22.83 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); BONDS (91%); PROFIT WARNINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (85%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); AIRLINES (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (57%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (59%) MCCLAIN, DYLAN LOEB 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



467 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
City Kid + Old Tappan = Winning Equation

BYLINE:  By HARVEY ARATON 

DATELINE: OLD TAPPAN, N.J. 

 BODY:
Lenny had the answer and he knew it was right. You could hear it in his voice. You could see it in the half smile of satisfaction under his Yankees cap.
 "You sure?" asked Lauren Vaughn, one of his classmates in Chris Broking's math skills class, with whom Lenny was checking his work. 
 "Y equals minus 2," he said, as sure of himself as he would be identifying a windmill dunk from a finger roll.
Granted, this two-step algebraic equation was not what the students were up to in high honors, but the result was correct. Mr. Broking patted him on the shoulder, and the 6-foot-6 Cooke leaned back contentedly and stretched his long legs into the aisle.
Two points added to his mounting self-esteem, to the credit of the 18-year-old drop-in who recently plopped himself opposite the principal to say, "This is the first time since I was a kid that I don't feel dumb."
There are no generalizations being made here, no condemnations. Lenny could have gone to class and done the work in Brooklyn, or at LaSalle Academy in Manhattan. He just didn't, and maybe, back in the city, he was a basketball prodigy too caught up in an athletic gold rush whose prospectors filled his head with hoop dreams that don't leave room for anything else. Maybe he needed some life-altering event, such as the birth of his son, Anahijae, last year, to rally himself in the academic arena before he was too far behind.
So this is just one teenager's story, because it was Lenny's idea and no one else's to ask Brian Raimondo's mother, Debbie Bortner, if he could move into her home last spring, transfer to Northern Valley Regional High School in Old Tappan, along with Brian, his former teammate at LaSalle. The grand basketball plan, if there was one, didn't have a Disney finish. Brian broke his wrist a week before his buddy became eligible last month, and the Lenny-led Golden Knights reeled off a run of victories before stumbling in overtime against Sparta in the state tournament two weeks ago.
Lenny didn't bring his A game in the first half, apologized to his team, and was reminded that being the basketball star at a school like Old Tappan means never having to say you're sorry. "I felt like I let people down, but nobody acted like it was a big deal," he said.
The principal, Anthony L. Panico, didn't even attend the game because that same weekend, the school's most time-honored team was winning another state title, the 15th in 16 years. Walk through the front entrance of the school, look left, and there sits the trophy case, crammed with the keepsakes of . . . Academic Decathlons? 
This, again, is no suburban stereotype, as the inflation of athletes' worth is hardly exclusive to any socioeconomic group. Panico and his staff admit that they like their sports and they sure loved watching Lenny flaunt his diversity of skills, while bending over backward to fit into their team. 
He scored 50 points in one game, as little as 22 in another. "What would be the point?" he said when someone asked if he could score 100 points in a league that hadn't seen the likes of him, the way Dajuan Wagner of Camden did earlier this season during a 90-point rout in another New Jersey high school game.
For about a month, Old Tappan rode a wave, and Thomas Kaechele, the athletic director, held his breath. He knew Lenny had a temper, had seen it during summer-league games. The legend of Lenny was sweeping Bergen County, but so was the pressure for him to be city-dominant, worthy of the college scouts who slipped quietly into the crowd. There were provocations, the kids at Ramapo chanting "S-A-T" and the Wayne Hills team triple-teaming him with flailing elbows and foolish taunts.
" 'Where's your son, where's your son?' they kept saying," Lenny said. "I'm not ashamed of my son."
He played calmly through the extracurricular activity, showing his stuff, displaying his growth. These tests, actually, were pushovers, compared with those he had already aced.
"He was a child who had been educationally deprived," said Terri Kelly, a biology teacher who privately mentored him two hours daily last summer. Lenny walked into her life with his shoulders slouched but soon amazed her with his determination to press on in an academic environment he quickly learned would push back. 
He is one of only six African-American students at Old Tappan, but it would be another stereotype to paint the school as a homogeneous country portrait. Panico said it wasn't easy integrating a Korean immigrant student population that is now at 23 percent. The Korean parents, who once sent the principal to South Korea so he could better understand them, initially did not want their kids mingling too much, playing sports. The basketball team Lenny played on was one-third Asian.
"My biggest pride in this deal," Panico said, "is that our kids have got as much from knowing Lenny as he got from being here."
The logical assumption is that he will be going within a few months. He has no basketball eligibility left and one more academic year until he gets a diploma. The prep schools want him for their road show revues but, hold on, Lenny says he's got a big decision to make.
"I don't want to go someplace where my grades fall back," he said. 
It's a long shot that he'll stay. The unopened letters from the major colleges are piling up. He is dreaming about leading St. John's back to the N.C.A.A. tournament that he's watching closely these days -- perhaps with his distant cousin, the St. John's point guard Omar Cook.
The big time beckons, but for now, there are ribbons to sell for an AIDS awareness program, assignments to complete and 4-year-old Matty Iovino to check up on in the school day-care center.
"Lenny took an elective course in child development," said Terri Shea, the boy's mother and a special education teacher. "The first day, Matty sat on Lenny's lap, and it's been hero worship ever since."
He was just Lenny to the kid, not Lenny the basketball player, maybe the best player Old Tappan will ever know.
"You're kidding," Panico said, almost in disbelief when Kaechele called to deliver the bad news of the Sparta defeat and the abrupt ending of the Lenny Cooke era. "We lost?"
That would depend on how one keeps score.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Northern Valley Regional in Old Tappan, N.J., Lenny Cooke, 18, is a high school student and standout basketball player as well as a father. (Photographs by Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (89%); MATHEMATICS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); BONE FRACTURES (71%); ATHLETES (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (70%); TOURNAMENTS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%) BASKETBALL 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%)

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY; COOKE, LENNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) OLD TAPPAN (NJ)

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



468 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Hoping to Shore Up Prices, OPEC Agrees to Cut Output by 4% 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: VIENNA, March 17 

 BODY:
Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed today to cut 4 percent from their oil output, or one million barrels a day, in the hope of shoring up prices at a time of weakening demand.
 The cut, which was at the upper end of most analysts' expectations, is aimed at keeping prices from falling further in the face of a seasonal dip in purchases and an overall decline in global economic growth. It will take effect April 1, OPEC said. 
 The cartel's members pump almost 40 percent of the world's oil, and their decision will affect retail prices for gasoline and other refined products in importing countries like the United States. One analyst predicted that gasoline prices could rise sharply, but others said the impact would be less significant.
The organization announced its decision after two days of talks in the Austrian capital. 
"The present weaker world economy and the traditional sharp downturn in demand associated with the second quarter both clearly point to the need for a correction in oil supply, and the conference has taken the decision to stabilize the oil market," OPEC announced.
Unlike other meetings of the group in recent years, this one unfolded against a backdrop of economic fragility, with stock markets from New York to Tokyo registering steep losses in share values. Consumer confidence has suffered, and fears of a recession are growing.
These economic conditions complicated OPEC's efforts to arrive at a suitable cut in production, oil ministers said.
"We have to follow this situation continuously," the organization's secretary general, Ali Rodriguez, said after the meeting. "The slowdown in the economy was entirely present in our analysis."
The unusually long time it took the group to reach a decision attests to the difficulty delegates faced in working out the specifics.
OPEC will trim its output quota to 24.2 million barrels a day from its current level of 25.2 million barrels. Energy analysts had generally forecast a decrease of at least 500,000 barrels a day.
The production cut will be the organization's second of the year so far. Members agreed in January to lop 1.5 million barrels off their previous quota, a decrease that took effect Feb. 1. The current global economic weakness appears to have reinforced the case within OPEC for deeper cuts.
The organization also was anticipating a slowdown this spring in seasonal demand for heating oil and gasoline as the weather starts to warm in many importing nations.
Saudi Arabia's oil minister, Ali Naimi, said the organization expected non-OPEC producers like Russia, Mexico and Angola to cooperate by holding back some of their own oil from the market. Iran's oil minister, Bijan Namdar Zangeneh, said non-OPEC countries would probably trim their supply by 200,000 barrels a day. 
Analysts noted that last month OPEC members produced some 500,000 barrels a day above the target they agreed to in January. This amount of overproduction means that even if cartel members were to reduce their official output by one million barrels a day, the actual decrease might equal only half that.
The organization is trying to stabilize prices at around $25 a barrel for an average of seven benchmark crudes. The OPEC average price has slid in recent months from more than $30 a barrel.
The cut will apply to all of OPEC's 11 members except Iraq, which does not take part in the group's production agreements because its oil exports are regulated by the United Nations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CARTELS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (79%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) AUSTRIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



469 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Spring Break Job Fair: Free Stuff, Few Offers 

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY 

DATELINE: SOUTH PADRE ISLAND, Tex., March 14 

 BODY:
The music blared over the beach as the midday scrum of college students partook in the usual rites of spring break -- beer drinking, standing around, beer drinking, maybe a little volleyball. But inside a white tent filled with corporate booths, students like Christiaan Best were looking for jobs.
 The tent, called Spring Break Career Expo, was not a typical blue-suit job fair. The applicants arrived shirtless or in string bikinis. One student carried an iguana on his shoulder. The corporate recruiters wore wraparound sunglasses and flip-flops and, in the words of one, wanted "to project an image of cool." 
 For this generation of college students, the fact that Fortune 500 recruiters would venture into the belly of the spring break beast bespoke the booming decade in which they came of age. But as students collected water bottles and other corporate freebies, the hip presentations and slick brochures could not obscure that the once overheated job market was cooling, and fast.
"It scares the hell out of me," said Mr. Best, 20. He is a University of Texas junior majoring in mechanical engineering who has had a summer internship with an engineering company fall through and is desperate to find something for his resume. 
The first booth Mr. Best and other students encountered, Motorola's, offered free Frisbees, but no jobs. The company announced 7,000 layoffs earlier in the week. A Motorola representative, Cindy Herrick, admitted, "We probably would not have chosen to come if we had not already committed." 
Other companies had openings, but some jobs might have seemed deflating for students weaned on legends of dot-com riches: Footaction, the shoe store chain, was hiring assistant store managers starting at $20,000.
Mr. Best grew up in Austin, Tex., where the affluence of the technology boom gave him outsized job expectations. He managed a boat store last summer and recalled how "Dellionaires" -- Dell Computer employees who have cashed in stock options -- would ask for the most expensive boat on the lot. Last month, Dell announced that 1,700 employees would be let go, the first large-scale layoffs in company history. Many smaller technology companies in Austin face even tougher times. 
"I thought I could just throw my resume out the window and somebody would give me a job," Mr. Best said. "They were hiring so fast."
Scott Pressman, the job fair's organizer, said he was holding his third annual event at South Padre Island and his fourth in Panama City, Fla., another spring break mecca. "When we first started, these companies couldn't have enough students," he said, noting that conventional job fairs often failed to attract a crowd. "We thought, 'Why not take the companies where the students are?' "
In the tent, there were no sit-down interviews, a situation that probably benefited those students who had lunched on beer. But all the students filled out registration forms with their name, major, university and grade-point average that were provided to companies for follow-up recruiting. Many students admitted their main motivation was "the free stuff," and many recruiters admitted that marketing the corporate brand was as much a goal as hiring.
There were jobs. Chili's, the restaurant chain, was looking for managers; Ernest & Julio Gallo, the winemaker, was hiring. ("Our industry is recession-proof," a Gallo recruiter said.) Recruiters with Raytheon and Lockheed Martin said they wanted electrical engineers and software engineers. But Eric Horton, 37, a Lockheed engineer, said his company also wanted students to "know that Lockheed Martin is down here on spring break, having fun. You know, kind of like we're not your father's Oldsmobile anymore."
Mr. Horton's bonhomie did little to soothe the anxieties of Madhav Narasimhan, 23, a graduate student in electrical engineering at Texas A&M University. "It's impossible," he said of his efforts to find a job. 
Meredith Kerr, 24, a senior majoring in journalism and advertising at Southern Illinois University, admitted she was nervous, too. "Are the jobs still out there?" Ms. Kerr asked. "Is the money still out there?" She hinted that she might delay her job search and head to graduate school to make herself more marketable.
Other students were more confident, if not in the economy, then in the stability of their chosen professions. Kristen Schiller, 23, a Saint Louis University senior, said her field, physical therapy, was thriving. Artie Donald, 22, a junior at Sam Houston State University, said he would not accept less than $62,000 a year as a computer programmer. He said his computer science major and his job experience in computer software and hardware helped him relax about his prospects.
"I figured the dot-com craze would collapse anyway," Mr. Donald said, his sunglasses hooked on his shirt. "There was never anything holding it up."
Perhaps the future will still be so bright, to quote the song, that Mr. Donald will have to wear his shades. To be sure, most students packed onto the beaches were more concerned with finding the hottest bars or avoiding police speed traps than with following the stock market or the latest employment report. 
Dave Boedeker, 21, a Central Missouri State University senior, said he had no idea that the white tent on the beach was a job fair.
"Right there?" Mr. Boedeker asked, holding a cup of beer. "Are you serious?"
He said he knew his future, anyway. He was going to a thong contest.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Students on spring break last week at South Padre Island, Tex., filled out registration forms, above, at a job fair on the beach. Companies like Motorola talked with students and offered Frisbees, below, but few jobs. (Photographs by Brad Doherty for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (92%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); FOOTWEAR (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ENGINEERING (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); SHOE STORES (68%); BOAT DEALERS (68%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (66%); RETAILERS (63%); STOCK OPTIONS (61%) LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (55%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (55%)

PERSON: YARDLEY, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) SOUTH PADRE ISLAND (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



470 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Lucent Layoffs Are New Hires to Other Technology Firms 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

DATELINE: MURRAY HILL, N.J., March 14 

 BODY:
On its face, the January announcement that Lucent Technologies, New Jersey's third-largest private employer, was going to lay off more than 10,000 employees worldwide was yet another sign of a weakening economy.
 But to people like Bruce F. Magown, the chief operating officer of Knoa.net, a small software firm that has had a hard time finding qualified technology workers, the layoffs at Lucent looked like a glass half full. 
 Mr. Magown is among the New York area technology executives, headhunters and venture capital investment firms who are hoping that many of the 2,000 Lucent employees being laid off in New Jersey will help fill the region's demand for technology workers and spur entrepreneurship. Lucent will still have almost 18,000 employees in New Jersey. 
"The pool of applicants has increased tenfold since the shakeout at Lucent began," Mr. Magown said. 
For nearly a year, layoffs in Manhattan's Silicon Alley have put thousands of dot-com workers into the job market. But technology executives have said that those layoffs have done little to allay the shortage of workers in their industry because there is little need for people who can make pretty Web sites. 
Instead, executives said, they are seeking programmers and researchers, both of whom remain in short supply. Unlike dot-coms, Lucent, which is headquartered on a sprawling campus here and is the parent company of Bell Labs, has a history of producing some of the nation's top telecommunications research.
"Since we announced this reduction, we've gotten hundreds of calls from competitors, recruiters and others who want our people because of the skills they have," said William T. Price III, a spokesman for Lucent who went to pains to note that the company was not cutting workers from its core research areas.
Still, the large-scale reorganization that Lucent announced it would undertake will mean the departure of many seasoned executives and mangers, as well as researchers involved in some areas that are no longer considered central to the company's missions.
Economists who have studied the effects of layoffs in the region caution that it is much too early to determine the impact of the Lucent shakeout. Few of the employees who are to be laid off have been notified. The economists add that the overall condition of the area's economy could affect the ability of entrepreneurs to find investments for new companies and the demand for technology workers.
But already executives and recruiters say that the hiring market for technology workers has begun to show signs of improvement, and several venture capital firms in the region said that they had been getting about five business plans a week from workers at Lucent.
"You cannot minimize the impact of large-scale layoffs and the pain it inflicts on a local economy," said Marc M. Goloven, the senior regional economist at J. P. Morgan Chase & Company. "But in many instances in the area there has been a positive response that has boded well for future economic growth, if not immediate economic growth."
Mr. Goloven points to places like the mid-Hudson Valley, where I.B.M. eliminated more than 8,000 jobs during the mid-1990's. By the time the dust had settled during the widespread downsizing of the time, Dutchess County had lost one out of every five jobs. But now many of those former I.B.M. workers are credited with starting the small technology and service companies that are fueling what has become one of New York State's fastest growing local job markets. 
On Long Island, the same growth occurred after the Grumman Corporation decided to lay off more than 7,400 workers in the wake of its 1990 merger with Northrop. Former Grumman executives, engineers and workers helped build the 1,600-company technology corridor that has helped spur job growth in Nassau and Suffolk Counties. And in Rochester, many of the city's telecommunications and technology companies can trace their roots to Kodak's layoffs during the 1980's.
Lucent's presence in New Jersey has already been credited with leading to the creation of hundreds of companies made up of former employees. The company itself and its predecessors helped develop the first commercial system for adding sound to motion pictures and a host of other breakthroughs that include innovations in lasers, satellites, electronic switching and the UNIX operating system. On average, four patent applications come out of the company each workday.
Already, Flatiron Partners, a venture capital firm based in New York, has helped arrange the hiring of one Lucent executive as the chief executive of a technology company in which it has a significant investment. GeoVideo Networks, a small company developing Internet video technology, recently hired Phil Thompson, a former Lucent Internet executive, as its senior vice president and hopes to hire more Lucent employees.
Lucent has also encouraged entrepreneurship throughout its corporate culture with several programs, including the Lucent New Ventures Group, which invests in companies that are spun out from its own research labs and executive suites. GeoVideo, which has offices in New York City and New Jersey, is one of those companies.
"We have actually had the good fortune of hiring some good people out of Lucent and Bell Labs," said Chris Pfaff, the chief communications officer at GeoVideo. "We have DNA from several Lucent ventures. We hope to have more."
Mr. Goloven said that after companies like Lucent make layoffs, they often fill the market with "a highly skilled work force that can immediately make contributions in other companies."
Despite the optimism, some say that the possible benefits of any layoffs could be negated by several economic factors. Theodore M. Crone, a vice president and economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, said that if the economy continued to weaken, investments would decline and fewer opportunities for entrepreneurs would follow quickly. At the same time, Mr. Crone said a weakening economy could reduce the demand for technology workers.
"We have to go out a few months to see if the information technology job market's demand still outstrips the supply," he said. "But there, it is still likely that there will be a need for Lucent employees."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about small technology companies in New Jersey that are hiring thousands of workers laid off from Lucent Technologies misstated the year of a merger between Northrop and the Grumman Corporation, which laid off thousands of workers on Long Island in 1990. It was in 1994, not 1990.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Phil Thompson, a former Lucent executive, is at GeoVideo Networks, a Lucent spinoff. He said he hoped to hire more Lucent employees. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); CITIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (93%); BELL LABORATORIES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC 

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (93%); ALU (NYSE) (93%); ALU (BIT) (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (93%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (93%) SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



471 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: With Bull Market Under Siege, Some Worry About Its Legacy 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The bull market, born in 1982 amid recession and concern that the American economy was terminally ill, is being measured for its coffin.
 A requiem may be premature for an animal that arose stronger than ever after reports of its death in the 1987 crash. But whatever its immediate prospects after the worst week for the Dow since 1989, this bull will long be remembered for the changes it has made in America. 
 It changed the way people lived and the risks they were willing to take. It led to Americans becoming more dependent on stock market profits than ever before -- and gave them confidence that there was little need to save. 
The 1990's economic boom spurred the bull market, and was in turn increased by the spending that the bull market encouraged. Stock options became widespread, making millionaires of even low-level employees in companies that became stock market favorites.
The stock market, once viewed by many as a highly risky place where amateurs were likely to suffer if they were not nimble, came to be viewed as a sure thing, at least in the long term.
"Individual investors got hooked on equities," said Robert Glauber, the chief executive of the National Association of Securities Brokers and a former Treasury undersecretary in the first Bush administration. "It went too far, and they came to think that equities were riskless."
In 1999, as the bull market reached its zenith, the net worth of American households rose 14.1 percent. "It influenced the size of the homes we live in, the type of cars we drive, how we go on vacation," said Douglas R. Cliggott, a strategist at J. P. Morgan Chase. "Because of the extraordinary improvement in the average American's net worth, it made us feel comfortable carrying what by historic standards would have been an extraordinary amount of debt."
Already, the stock market's fall has put a dent in Americans' wealth. Household net worth fell 2 percent in 2000, the first such fall since the government began keeping track of the statistic after World War II. Households had experienced a small increase even in 1974, during the worst recession since the 1930's.
The loss of wealth reflects the fact that by 1999 Americans had 60 percent of their investments and savings in the stock market, double the proportion they had in 1982, according to J. P. Morgan Chase. And that understates the real figure, since retirement funds like 401(k)'s are excluded. Never before in American history has the wealth of so many been tied to Wall Street's fortunes.
"I'm old enough to remember when you went into a bar during the summer, they were watching a baseball game," said Byron Wien, the chief United States equity strategist for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "Now, they're watching CNBC."
The bull is now, at best, wounded. In the final years of the great rise -- one that saw the Dow Jones industrial average climb 1,409 percent from the 1982 low to the early 2000 high, while the Nasdaq composite index soared 3,072 percent -- the biggest winners were the technology stocks. Now some of the highest flyers in the boom are dead, and even the best are down 50 percent or more from their highs.
The Nasdaq composite, dominated by technology stocks, is now down 63 percent from its peak of last March while the Dow, which had held up much better because of its old-economy concentration, is off 16 percent from its peak, after losing almost 8 percent last week. The Standard & Poor's 500, a widely followed index of large companies, is down 25 percent from its high.
If the bull is dead or dying, it will leave a society that has depended on it far more than anyone could have anticipated even a decade ago. Corporate America went deeply into debt to buy back stock and obtain shares to issue to employees, confident that share prices would keep rising. 
Family finances were reshaped. Far fewer companies now offer traditional defined-benefit pension plans that promise guaranteed incomes to retirees. Instead they offer defined-contribution benefit plans like 401(k)'s, where the investment risk belongs to the beneficiary. When times were good, with stock prices rising and inflation quiet, people felt comfortable saving little money outside of their 401(k)'s.
Now, if the perception spreads that the days of easy money are over, that could persuade Americans to save more to finance their retirements. Savers would benefit in the long run, but the adjustment would further depress economic activity in the short run, damaging business profits and perhaps hurting stock prices even more.
Such a situation was foreseen by no one in the summer of 1982. The Dow was trading under 800 and bearishness was rampant. Inflation and interest rates were high, the American economy was in recession and pessimism was widespread regarding the ability of American business to compete with foreign companies, particularly those of Japan.
The stock market was lower than it had been in 1966. To make matters worse, the accountants were cracking down by changing rules that had made it possible for companies to ignore how underfunded their pension plans really were. To comply with the new accounting requirements, companies would have to find ways to make large contributions to their pension plans.
Or, they could find ways to reduce their obligations. In that atmosphere the trend toward defined-contribution plans took off. Workers were forced to decide how to invest their retirement money. While much of that early investment went into bonds and money market funds that were paying high rates of interest, as time went on and rates declined, more and more savers were forced to consider putting some money into stocks.
Those who took the plunge did well. American business was embarking on a golden age as its efforts to become more competitive bore fruit. Corporate profits, at 7.5 percent of national income in 1981, grew to 12.5 percent by 1997. 
In 1987, it all appeared to end with a crash. The Dow fell 22.7 percent in one day, and the bull's obituaries were written.
But the bull was not dead. By late 1989 the stock market was back to its old highs. The lesson learned was not that stocks are risky; it was that money is to be made by buying when prices fall.
Stock options were relatively rare in 1982, but as the bull grew they became far more common. And at many companies, particularly technology companies, they were offered not just to senior executives but to many others, all the way down to the lowest levels. In the Seattle area, where Microsoft is based, so many became wealthy that the local housing market was distorted, a fact that may have helped lead to strikes in recent years at Boeing and The Seattle Times, where such wealth had not flowed even though living costs were on the rise.
For the companies that issued such options, the benefits included loyal employees -- the options would be canceled if the worker quit -- and inflated profits, since accounting rules did not require that the value of the options be treated as an expense. The companies even got a tax break when the options were exercised to buy stock.
But as more options were exercised to buy shares, companies worried that shareholders would be offended that their stake was falling -- dilution is the Wall Street word -- because of the new shares being issued. So companies bought back more and more of their shares to avoid such dilution. For many companies, those purchases used up most of their available money, so they had to borrow for investments in their businesses. During a period of unparalleled corporate prosperity, the debt of corporate America grew substantially.
At the peak of the bull's vigor, Internet stocks went wild. It did not matter that many had no profits and little hope for any. There were voices of caution, but they were soon discredited as the share prices kept rising.
"I used to get that look that people reserve for benign idiots and small children when I would say that Amazon.com would have to become the retail sales industry for the United States to grow into the market capitalization it had at its peak," recalled Robert Barbera, the chief economist of Hoenig & Company. Amazon is now down 90 percent.
As the new-offerings market grew to a fever pitch, the goals of those starting businesses seemed to change. Where once the dream was to start a business and watch it grow and become profitable, more and more seemed to see the initial public offering as the end point, when the money would have been made.
Now the illness of the bull, and speculation that it has already died, has put new pressure on Americans to decide whether stocks are still the best long-term investment and that buying on dips is a good strategy. So far, Americans seem to be putting much less money into stocks but to be avoiding selling if they can. With Treasury bonds paying less than 5 percent interest, the investment alternatives are not especially attractive.
Mr. Glauber, the N.A.S.D. chief executive, expresses confidence that the old aversion to stocks will not return. "I think they will still conclude that equities are an important part of their long-term portfolio," he said.
On Wall Street, most strategists think the stock market is at or near a bottom. Abby Joseph Cohen, the Goldman, Sachs strategist, recommended earlier this month that investors put more money in stocks, which she viewed as undervalued even before last week's plunge. She set a target of 13,000 for the Dow by the end of this year.
That may prove accurate, but all forecasts are inevitably colored by recent history. Now, that history shows years of strong gains.
Many years ago, in a very different environment, this newspaper reported that James L. Freeman, the director of research at First Boston, was reflecting the prevailing Wall Street opinion when he forecast that "the market's going to take the ultimate dive" before prices were likely to turn up. "Batten down the hatches," he advised.
That article, headlined "Dark Days on Wall Street," was printed on Sunday, Aug. 15, 1982. No one knew it, but a great bull had been born the preceding Friday.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 20, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about the fading bull market misidentified the organization led by Robert Glauber, who said investors had come to see stocks as risk-free. It is the National Association of Securities Dealers, not Brokers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders on the New York Stock Exchange as prices fell in early trading Friday. It was the worst week since 1989 for the Dow industrial average. (Associated Press)(pg. 18) Chart: "The Bull Market, From Beginning to . . ." A BULL IS BORNIn 1982, amid recession and economic pessimism, the Dow hits bottom at 777, more than 20 percent below where it stood in 1966. IT SURVIVES A CRASHThe Dow fell 22.7 percent on Oct. 19, 1987. But by late 1989 it was setting new highs, and the crash was remembered as a buying opportunity. IT BECOMES A LEGENDIn the late 1990's it rises faster than ever, easily outpacing the growth of corporate profits. CAN IT BE REVIVED?After a huge runup, stock prices turn down and recession threatens. Graph shows monthly closes of the Dow Jones industrial average from 1982 through 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. 1) Chart: "The Greatest Bull Ever"AS PRICES ROSE . . .Compounded annual change in Dow Jones industrial average for 20-year periods ending in years show. Graph tracks changes from 1920 to 2000. . . . INVESTERS BOUGHTStocks as percentage of household financial assets. Graph tracks percentages from 1950 to 2000.(Sources: Dow Jones, Bloomberg Financial Markets, J.P. Morgan Chase)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); US 401K PLANS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BASEBALL (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); BONDS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); HISTORY (67%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); WORLD WAR II (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; PUBLIC OPINION 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (55%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



472 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: THE RIGHT THING; 
When Good Ethics Aren't Good Business

BYLINE:  By JEFFREY L. SEGLIN; Jeffrey L. Seglin teaches at Emerson College in Boston and is the author of "The Good, the Bad, and Your Business" (John Wiley & Sons). His column on business ethics appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: righthng@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
STORIES about courageous chief executives who, when faced with business pressures to do otherwise, choose to do the right thing invariably end up reading like morality tales. The message? Good ethics leads to good business results.
 The fire that devastated Malden Mills Industries just before Christmas 1995 was just such a story. Rather than collect the insurance money, lay employees off and shutter the textile company, Aaron Feuerstein, the owner, promised to keep the employees on the payroll while he rebuilt. Mr. Feuerstein rescued the business, saved about 3,000 jobs and kept the town of Lawrence, Mass., where the company is based, from economic disaster. 
 While stories like Mr. Feuerstein's are inspiring, they add to the myth that good ethics and good business always go hand in hand. That is simply not the case.
"One could argue that responsible management and doing the right thing are often characterized by the same things," Jon P. Gunnemann, a professor of social ethics at Emory University, said. "But you can't infer that every decision about the right thing to do is necessarily going to be good for the company. Sometimes, doing the right thing can have tragic consequences."
A prime example may involve Ed Shultz, the former chief executive of Smith & Wesson, the gun manufacturer based in Springfield, Mass. Last March, in an attempt to defuse lawsuits the company was facing from at least 29 municipalities that held handgun manufacturers responsible for violent crimes, Mr. Shultz entered into an agreement with the federal government. He said that Smith & Wesson would include locks on its handguns, research and implement "smart-gun" technology that would only allow the owner of a gun to operate it and improve the way retailers sold its products. Much of this, said Mr. Shultz, was already being done.
"It was a business decision," Ken Jorgensen, a company spokesman, said. Tomkins P.L.C., the British company that owns Smith & Wesson, wanted to sell the company, a goal that was impossible as long as the lawsuits were pending. The company knew the reaction to the agreement with the federal government might be harsh. "There wasn't any question there was going to be a hit," Mr. Shultz said. "The question was how big the hit would be and for how long."
As it turns out, the hit was huge. The company was vilified by its customers, retailers and perhaps most vocally by the industry lobbying group, the National Rifle Association. 
Sales dropped off dramatically, and by October the company announced that it was laying off 125 of the 725 employees at its Springfield plant. Mr. Shultz left the company in September to run another company that had been sold by Tomkins.
Why would a company very publicly decide to implement changes in its products that it knew would likely meet with disapproval among its core constituents? Up until this time, Mr. Shultz said, the company had done everything dictated by the government that it had to do in manufacturing guns -- no more, no less. But the decision to do more, he said, "came because I couldn't answer the question, 'Was I doing everything I knew how to do to prevent accidents?' " When he asked himself, "Would I put locks on our guns if it might save one child? The answer was yes." It is a decision that seems particularly poignant given the recent Santana High School shooting in Santee, Calif., the latest in a string of tragedies involving firearms.
"I had to make those decisions based on the tradition of the company and my own beliefs of what's right," said Mr. Shultz, who still describes himself as "a rabid gun owner." He said the formal agreement made sense because Smith & Wesson was already doing most of what the municipalities were asking for.
In the short-term, Smith & Wesson is suffering consequences that from a business standpoint might be considered tragic. What adds to the tragedy is that no other manufacturers followed Smith & Wesson's lead and the deal ultimately unraveled.
"Shultz may have done something that was in the best long-term interests of the company -- making it seem like a corporate citizen and just doing the right thing -- but since the law doesn't require others to do it, in the short run it may have hurt the company," said Joseph W. Singer, a law professor at Harvard and author of "The Edges of the Field" (Beacon, 2000).
THE thorny dilemma for company managers then is what to do when deciding between doing the right thing and doing what is best for the business. Ultimately, the ethical choice is clear: do the right thing regardless of whether you are rewarded for doing so.
"If you take your morality seriously," Mr. Gunnemann said, "then what's most important to you is not the bottom line, it's whether you can sleep at night."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Matthew Martin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SMALL ARMS MFG (90%); FIREARMS (89%); LITIGATION (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FABRIC MILLS (77%); TEXTILE MILLS (77%); TEXTILES (72%); LOBBYING (69%); RETAILERS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); VIOLENT CRIME (65%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; FIREARMS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; ETHICS 

COMPANY: MALDEN MILLS INDUSTRIES INC (58%); SMITH & WESSON CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SMITH & WESSON 

INDUSTRY: NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (58%); SIC2221 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, MANMADE FIBER & SILK (58%); NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (55%)

PERSON: SEGLIN, JEFFREY L; SHULTZ, ED 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



473 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: The Skies Are Blue And The Chips Are, Too 

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
THE year was 1978. The airline was Braniff. The Halston-clad "air hostess" trainee was a woman named Doreen Lawrence. And she was learning how to walk, the Braniff way.
 "They told you to imagine a string running from your bellybutton to your chin that you had to keep tight so you would have good posture, an arched back," she said. "And to imagine that you were holding a dime with your . . . well, with your rear end. And then when you walked, you had to walk so that your knees almost crossed, which made you kind of swish like a model on a catwalk." 
 She added: "I suppose we learned emergency procedures. I really don't remember it." 
Of course, Braniff disappeared into thin air long ago, but Ms. Lawrence is doing her walk again. She's teaching it to the 250 or so flight attendants who work for JetBlue Airways. The cut-rate airline, which started last year at Kennedy Airport, is trying to usher a little style back into the in-flight experience. It is also advancing the crazy idea that even cost-conscious airline passengers care about look, feel and attitude, almost as much as they care about getting there on time and in one piece.
In the Zagat 2001 survey of American airlines, published this month, JetBlue was rated the second-best economy airline, behind Midwest Express, which serves food on china with silverware and linen napkins, spending an unusually high sum of $10 per passenger per meal.
JetBlue's service does not aim for that kind of elegance, but the Zagat survey, based on the votes of 20,000 passengers, still quoted JetBlue customers who raved about it, calling the new airline a discount "role model," and saying they thought it was already succeeding in "trying to be the U.S. version of Virgin Atlantic." On the business side it appears to be succeeding as well. It turned a profit after only six months in the air.
JetBlue is focusing on good service at a time when lousy airline service is getting a lot of attention. Just last Tuesday, "Dateline NBC" reported on an eight-month examination of how airlines treat customers, finding no shortage of rudeness, lost luggage and lying about delays.
JetBlue's founder, David Neeleman, who grew up in Salt Lake City, wanted not only to bring a little civility back to flying, but also to give his New York-based airline a sense of New York style. Gray leather seats, each with live television, so New Yorkers would not have to suffer even a minute of media withdrawal. Uniforms that were hip and dark.
Originally, the uniforms were to be black, but their designer, Stan Herman, switched to navy blue as a nod to the airline's name. The Web site, www.jetblue.com, is funny and knowing, as is the message that greets callers on hold, acknowledging how everyone hates being on hold. There are no in-flight meals (just a beverage and a bag of blue potato chips), because they are seldom more than an insult on a tray. Most important, the attendants are supposed to have a different approach, confident but not cocky, friendly but not too friendly in that Southwest Airlines "we're all having a party, y'all!" way.
To that end, they hired Ms. Lawrence and another former flight attendant, Dean Melonas, to train the staff in service with retro flair. At Braniff, Ms. Lawrence was serving cocktails on planes whose fuselages were splashed with swirling Calder designs and whose seats were covered with fabrics chosen by Alexander Girard.
Mr. Melonas started his career in 1978 as well, but at American Airlines, never known particularly for its style. But even there, Bill Blass was recruited to design uniforms, and a woman who had once groomed Miss America contestants was brought in to make over the flight attendants.
"That was a long time ago," he said wistfully late last month in Kew Gardens, Queens, where a new crop of JetBlue attendant trainees awaited his old-school customer-service wisdom in a nearby classroom.
In the flight attendant class, at JetBlue's headquarters, Mr. Melonas was trying to get that message across to 27 trainees -- 20 women and 7 men, ranging from 20 to 53. One woman, in her early 50's, had a law degree. Another, also in her 50's, had worked in financing for exotic cars but had always dreamed of becoming a flight attendant. A man in his early 20's had worked part time as an emergency medical technician, and a man in his 40's had been a elementary school phys ed teacher.
Only one had worked for another airline, but all had been passengers. And all seemed as demoralized as your average passenger at the way they had been treated.
"I'd like somebody to describe the experiences they've had on other airlines with the crew," Mr. Melonas said.
"Robotic," one man said.
"Phoning it in," a woman added.
"Right," Mr. Melonas said. Shifting into his motivational-guru persona, he added: "It's the I-don't-have-to attitude. And the we-don't-have-tos of the world are going to be working for some other airline, not this one."
The first signal to the trainees that something might be different came early on, when the airline brought in stylists to cut the students' hair and re-engineer their makeup. (Most airlines no longer do this.)
And for good measure, at the end of every training period, Ms. Lawrence makes everyone learn how to do the Braniff walk, even the guys.
"There are always a few guys who are too shy to get out there and strut," she said. "So when they walk by I let a dime go rolling on the floor and say, 'Hey -- you dropped that.' "
But how much of this new philosophy makes it out of the classroom and onto the plane?
On a recent flight to Fort Lauderdale, I checked in at the JetBlue gate, in Kennedy's soaring Terminal 6, designed by I. M. Pei & Partners. The woman behind the counter was actually friendly -- but not so much that she wasn't able to check me in quickly.
Once on board, I looked down the aisle and saw four flight attendants who looked as if they had been spirited in from the lobby of the Royalton Hotel. No ugly jackets, military accenting or epaulets. The men were in dark shirts with dark ties, some short-sleeve. The women had two-tone blue scarves knotted tightly around their necks, like chokers.
The attendants helped us put our luggage up in the bins. They announced that if we sat down and put our coats on our laps, they would come by and put them up for us. Very efficient. Almost gracious. They seemed to like what they were doing, or were faking it convincingly. They also all seemed to be from New York. (This turned out to be nearly true. Monica Camargo was from Maspeth, Queens. Carlos Olivo was from the South Bronx. Michael Annichiarico was from New Jersey. Bonnie Bolding was from Nashville, but she stressed that she really liked New York a lot.)
Once the plane took off, no beverage cart began stop-starting down the aisle at three inches a minute. Drinks were served from white plastic trays that looked like something the moonliner stewardesses would have used in "2001: A Space Odyssey."
The crew made sure we knew how to work our television sets, with their live satellite feed. I watched old episodes of "The Jetsons," which meshed perfectly with the retro-futuristic setting. Andrew Grossman, a bond analyst who had taken the same Jet Blue 5 p.m. flight to Fort Lauderdale five times in the previous seven weeks, was watching reruns of "Baa Baa Black Sheep," as he had during all the other flights.
"Very cool," he said, the blue glow glinting off his glasses.
On the flight to Fort Lauderdale, passengers were in such a good mood (despite a takeoff that was a little late) that when the flight attendants asked everyone to please help tidy up the cabin after landing, some people actually did. Because the weather was nice, the crew also opened both the front and back hatches, letting everyone deplane more rapidly. Those of us who walked down the back stairs onto the tarmac could pretend we were the Beatles.
All in all, it was not what you would call a luxurious flight. It was certainly not the "upper class" cabin on Virgin Atlantic, where you can socialize in the 747 lounge or snooze under a feather duvet. But then again, the flight didn't cost $7,000. If you book far enough ahead, a trip to Fort Lauderdale can cost $84 one way. And yet, the flight evoked no memories of People Express, the defunct airline so cheap it charged 50 cents for an onboard cup of coffee.
As corny as it sounds, JetBlue's New York personality isn't cool and lofty but warm and down-to-earth. The cabin crew makes a point of introducing the pilots by their first and last names. No "Captain Bob" or "Captain George."
"To me that always sounded like Captain Kangaroo was flying your plane," Mr. Melonas said.
On a flight last year to Orlando, the live television was on the blink. The natives were restless. When a man told Ms. Lawrence that he wanted to propose to his girlfriend on board, she decided to go for broke.
"I said: 'Ladies and gentleman, we're going to have some live entertainment. Direct your attention to Seat 16A. A man is going to get down on one knee and ask a woman to marry him.' "
"The guy looked at me. He said, 'Down on one knee?' I said, 'Down on one knee.' "
The man proposed. The girlfriend said yes. The crew passed out white wine to all the witnesses.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The end of a JetBlue flight in Fort Lauderdale. The line focuses on service and style, even accessorizing with blue potato chips. (Richard Patterson for The New York Times)(pg. 1); For each seat, a television. For each attendant, help on personal style: Stacey Yannaco, left, tutors Andrea Williams. (Photographs by Steve Hart for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); MARKETING SURVEYS (86%); AIRPORTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (94%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: JETBLUE AIRWAYS; MIDWEST EXPRESS AIRLINES; ZAGAT SURVEY 

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE, DOREEN; KENNEDY, RANDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



474 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
The Future Won't Be As Good As It Was

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
TRILLIONS of dollars in household wealth has vanished in the sickening stock market fall of the past year. College education funds have been pounded and plans for early retirements probably pushed back as a result. But apart from some finger-pointing and gallows humor in investing chat rooms, investors seem commendably stalwart about the pain they have endured in this bear market, the worst in Nasdaq's history.
 Such investor stoicism is something of a puzzle to many veteran market observers. Since many novices entered the stock market in the 1990's, it was assumed these newcomers would panic and scream bloody murder when their beloved bull was gored. 
 But calm and quiet prevails, at least on the surface of the market.
There are signs of suffering in indicators like consumer confidence and purchases of consumer goods and capital goods, argued Peter J. Tanous, president of Lynx Investment Advisory Inc., a money management concern in Washington. "My sense is that the anguish that people are feeling, they are keeping to themselves because the losses are so big," he said. "Investors are internalizing the pain but it's being reflected in the economy. People are sitting on their hands and their wallets."
Mr. Tanous, author of "Investment Gurus: A Road Map to Wealth From the World's Best Money Managers," makes investor psychology something of a study. He fears that many investors are holding onto decimated stocks in the hopes that they will make a quick comeback, as some have in the past.
A big mistake, in Mr. Tanous' view. And he provides a bit of arithmetic to demonstrate why.
Take a popular stock like Intel, which has fallen 63 percent from its high of $75.81 in August. Many investors feel that Intel's dominance in microprocessors makes it a prime comeback candidate.
Assume that Intel's shares rise 15 percent a year going forward, an enviable return by any investor's reckoning. How long would it take for the shares to get back to their high of just seven months ago?
Seven long years.
Plug in the same assumptions of 15 percent annual returns for the rest of the most popular shares in America and the picture is sobering indeed. These stocks may certainly come back, but if they do, it will more likely be over a period of years, not months.
At 15 percent a year, Cisco shareholders would need to wait a decade for their stock to get back to its high of $82, seen last March. AT&T would climb back to its peak of last March in seven years. General Electric, which has lost a relatively modest 33 percent since its peak of last August, would need three years to return there.
Microsoft would see $115 again in six years, while Oracle shareholders would have to wait nine years to regain their shares' peak. Nine years would also have to pass before Sun Microsystems stockholders would again see the stock's high of $64.66.
Because it has fallen so precipitously in the past year, Yahoo would require even more patience from its stockholders: 20 years of 15 percent gains.
This exercise is not meant to advise investors to dump these shares. Rather, Mr. Tanous wants to show how investors will have to temper their expectations and learn to be satisfied with the lower returns that are more typical of the stock market.
While pundits and strategists quibble over whether the market has bottomed or has further to fall, Mr. Tanous said investors should instead bury any notion they may harbor that the bull market of the last decade will stir again.
"I can state with a great degree of conviction that most of us will never see a decade in the market like the '90's in our lifetime again," Mr. Tanous said. "And until investors taper their expectations to more normalized returns, they're going to be in for trouble."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Long Road Ahead"If prices of these widely held stocks grow by 15 percent a year from now on, here is how long it would take to reach their peak prices of last year. General Electric: 3 YearsI.B.M.: 3Microsoft: 6Intel: 7Cisco: 10Lucent: 14Yahoo: 20 (Source: Lynx Investment Advisory)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HISTORY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (73%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); BONDS (72%); MICROPROCESSORS (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (82%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (82%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; TANOUS, PETER J 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



475 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: The Ties That Bind New York To Wall St.; 
Roiling Market Revives Debate Over Economy

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
Stock market meltdowns have a lot of unpleasant consequences: fortunes lost, retirements ruined, college funds flattened, stock brokers unemployed. But for New Yorkers, there's another, annoying one: political posturing.
 That's because the current turmoil on Wall Street is bringing back to a boil the debate over how much New York City's economy relies on the fortunes of its big financial firms. You may think that the answer is a straightforward one involving only economics and maybe history. You would be wrong. 
 Because the way people answer that question -- often framed as, "Is the economy too dependent on Wall Street?" -- depends almost entirely on which political party they belong to. "Yes!" say the Democrats. "No!" say the Republicans. "Aargh!" say the five people on the planet who have pored through the reams of statistics from both sides, struggling to disentangle politics from economics. 
So far, the fallout from the stock market's swoon has been remarkably small, at least on the jobs front. Although a number of financial firms like Morgan Stanley Dean Witter have said they are considering cutbacks, the carnage has been limited mainly to some high-tech types at Bear Stearns and the fruit baskets in Goldman Sachs's coffee rooms. Thousands of people are losing their jobs because of the merger of Chase Manhattan and J. P. Morgan, but those are related more to the changing nature of commercial banking.
The unemployment rate in the city actually fell in January, when adjusted for seasonal factors. But there has been a worrying jump in the number of people filing claims for unemployment insurance, said James A. Parrott, deputy director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a research group that has been a frequent critic of the Giuliani administration's economic policies. Even so, Mr. Parrott noted, the claims are still at relatively low levels.
Even people who are not riveted by politics or Wall Street are now wondering whether the current stock market mess will crimp the city's economic boom, or crush it. More on that in a minute.
But political types have been debating the question for years, and the debate is heating up once again. For example, H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller, who has announced that he will be a Democratic candidate for governor, is updating a report he issued in 1998 warning that the city was at risk because of its growing reliance on Wall Street to fill its coffers and fuel its economy.
The very mention of this report induces apoplexy in the Pataki administration. "Overdependence on Wall Street is a myth manufactured by Carl McCall," said Stephen Kagann, chief economist for the governor, who objects to the notion that the "city economy is a yo-yo on Wall Street's string." 
If Wall Street does call the tune, Mr. Kagann said, then nobody can say the recession of the 1990's was the fault of the policies of David N. Dinkins, who was then the mayor and is now supporting Mr. McCall, or those of Mario M. Cuomo, the former governor whose son Andrew is also a Democratic candidate for governor. Nor can the administrations of George E. Pataki and Rudolph W. Giuliani, both Republicans, take credit for the boom, which they attribute in large part to their tax cuts and other business-friendly policies.
Taking credit and laying blame are by no means the only factors that cloud the issue. On a percentage basis, Wall Street actually does not account for all that many jobs. Last year, according to Alan G. Hevesi, the city comptroller, the number was 183,500, less than 5 percent of the total jobs in New York. That's a smaller percentage than remains in the dwindling manufacturing sector.
But those investment bankers and brokers make a lot of money -- about 18 percent of all the wages paid in the city. And depending on how you figure it, their earnings account for a huge portion of the growth in wages in the city over the last decade.
Just their annual bonuses last year totaled $13 billion. That buys a lot of penthouse apartments and restaurant meals, limousine rides and Knicks tickets.
In fact, that puts a lot of people to work. Even Mr. Kagann says that the impact of Wall Street accounts for about a fifth of the city's economy.
And Wall Street pays a lot of taxes, directly and indirectly. The mayor took time at news conferences last week to reassure people that the city government would not be in financial distress if Wall Street's profits dropped, saying that the city was using cautious assumptions about how much revenue the financial firms would generate. For example, the administration says it is assuming that the securities firms will make only $5.1 billion in profits this year, even though they made $19.5 billion last year.
The administration also likes to point to new jobs outside Manhattan, particularly in Queens and Staten Island, to bolster its contention that the city has lots of industries that will not move in lock step with Wall Street's ups and downs.
Marc M. Goloven, the chief regional economist for J. P. Morgan, agrees. "It seems to me that the industry mix is far broader today than it was a decade ago," he said. In the 1980's, the last time Wall Street suffered a serious setback, most of the city's job growth was in government. Today, he said, it is the private sector that is producing new jobs.
Not everyone is convinced. "I personally don't believe the economy is any more diverse than it was a decade ago," said Mark M. Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, which does economic analyses for clients on both sides of the political aisle. 
The stickiest issue here is a category of companies called business services. This includes everything from accountants to computer services to temporary agencies, and jobs in it have been growing like wildfire. Since 1988, this sector of the economy has added almost 79,000 jobs, and it now accounts for more than 9 percent of total jobs in the city.
Some economists point to this as a sign of diversity. Others, like Mr. Zandi, think business services are entwined with Wall Street because financial firms are their customers or, like the dot-coms, they rely on investment banks for financing.
The issue of how diverse the economy is has a big political dimension, too. Many critics of the Giuliani administration contend that only the wealthy have benefited from the economic boom of the last few years; the poor and middle class, they say, have lost ground. That view was on display at a forum for Democratic mayoral candidates on Thursday night, sponsored by the labor-backed Working Families Party.
Admittedly, the mayoral race has not yet focused much on economic issues. Of course, it hasn't focused much on issues at all; the four candidates who have announced that they are running for the Democratic nomination are still trying to make a dent in the public's consciousness, and there is no real Republican candidate yet.
But if times turn tough, debate over Wall Street's influence and the economy's diversity is certain to heat up in the mayoral race as it already has in the race for governor, politicians say. And economic policies do matter in political contests; many analysts attribute Hillary Rodham Clinton's Senate victory to her emphasis on the economic problems of upstate New York, while her opponent, Rick A. Lazio, insisted that things were improving.
New Yorkers may be spared. Wall Street can and does turn on a dime. In 1998, for example, financial markets fell apart, and securities firms feared that they faced big losses. A few laid off people only to rehire them a few months later as business rebounded.
Even Alan Greenspan does not know if that is likely to happen this time; the stock market is in the worst shape it has been in in years. But New Yorkers surely hope the markets do recover, to protect jobs, preserve their portfolios -- and keep the politicians from burying voters in drifts of economic data.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BONDS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (75%); TRENDS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); DISMISSALS (67%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); GOVERNORS (64%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



476 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Disappointed Warrior 

BYLINE:  By Herbert Mitgang; Herbert Mitgang is the author of "Once Upon a Time in New York: Jimmy Walker, Franklin Roosevelt and the Last Great Battle of the Jazz Age."

 BODY:
 EMPIRE STATESMAN
The Rise and Redemption of Al Smith.
By Robert A. Slayton.
Illustrated. 480 pp. New York:
The Free Press. $30.
IT is arguable that the greatest legacy of Alfred E. Smith, the defeated Democratic candidate for president in 1928, was that he paved the way for John F. Kennedy, a fellow Roman Catholic, to be nominated and elected president in 1960. What is still hard to imagine is how much bigotry existed in many corners of the United States during the Roaring Twenties, an era usually depicted as fun-filled and prosperous rather than as infected by outright religious and racial hatred in politics as well as in everyday life.
"Empire Statesman," Robert A. Slayton's biography of Smith, is valuable because it describes the vitriolic mood of much of the nation during the 1928 campaign. The Ku Klux Klan mailed out thousands of postcards reading: "We now face the darkest hour in American history. In a convention ruled by political Romanism, Antichrist has won." When Smith's campaign train reached the Oklahoma state line, crosses were burned in the fields. "Parents were told that if a Catholic was elected, all Protestant marriages would be annulled, immediately rendering their children illegitimate," Slayton writes. "Pictures of the construction of the Lincoln Tunnel were passed out around the country, with captions explaining that it was a secret passageway to bring the pope from Rome to Washington."
Smith (1873-1944) was a product of the sidewalks of New York long before he became a national personality. He came from an Irish immigrant heritage, paid his dues in ward politics and rose in the ranks of Tammany Hall, where it helped to be surrounded by other ambitious machine loyalists. Some of the old ward bosses were corrupt, but Smith was not tainted by Tammany shenanigans. He never forgot, nor did he try to conceal, his origins.
Smith's favorite story about his background dated back to 1911, when he served in the State Assembly. During a debate, several Republican legislators, who boasted about their degrees from Ivy League colleges, tried to intimidate Smith by asking about his education. He replied, "I'm an F.F.M. man." A fellow Tammany assemblyman asked him to explain. "Fulton Fish Market," Smith replied. "Let's proceed with the debate."
Slayton, who teaches history at Chapman University in Orange, Calif., shows that Smith developed a social conscience early in his life. He advocated legislation to help the poor while campaigning for every political office, including the presidency. "To Smith, all of the differences of ethnicity and regionalism and race and religion in the nation would mean nothing, because they would be handled just in the same way these factors were handled in the Fourth Ward," Slayton writes. "Just like in the neighborhood, the people of New York State, and then America, would look at each candidate fairly and choose the best man or woman based on what he or she had done, not who he or she was."
Smith's bighearted views worked while he was running for the New York legislature and for governor, but he did not connect with people across the United States. His New York accent was no asset when he talked about "woik" on the "raddio." (By contrast, Kennedy's Boston accent was considered high-class.) Smith was ahead of his time in respecting the rights of labor unions and in introducing safety regulations in the workplace.
As one of New York's finest governors, Smith showed his greatest talent in his ability to pick talented advisers. His inner circle included Joseph Proskauer, a descendant of German and Austrian Jews who grew up in Mobile, Ala. After encountering anti-Semitism in law school, big law firms and the courts, Proskauer eventually served on the Court of Appeals in Albany. Smith was also far ahead of his time in promoting women to public office. Another close adviser was Belle Moskowitz, another descendant of Jewish immigrants, who grew up in Harlem. Moskowitz was publicity director of the Democratic State Committee; she edited Governor Smith's speeches, and most important, she advocated ideological goals for his administration. Moskowitz also introduced Smith to Robert Moses, who became the head of the state's parks system.
"Smith's greatest concrete achievement was his reshaping of the state structure," Slayton writes. "When he first took office there was corruption and chaos, a system better designed for running a feudal kingdom than a modern unit of government. . . . And he did it without ever forgetting some other values -- like mercy or justice -- and without sacrificing the needs of the poor, the working class or minorities."
The low point of Smith's life and career was his break with his successor, Franklin D. Roosevelt, a former ally in New York reform politics. Smith was anything but statesmanlike in his behavior toward Roosevelt. In 1928, Smith lost his bid for the presidency while Roosevelt won the governorship. "Thus, as the 1928 campaign began, Smith was running with a man he cared about but did not respect; Eleanor Roosevelt wrote, 'In many ways Governor Smith did not know my husband.' Al still woefully underestimated Franklin's abilities and skills, regardless of any evidence to the contrary, despite his very real affection for the man."
Smith wanted to make a second run for the presidency in 1932, but Roosevelt was in a strong position among Democratic candidates. He had been the first governor to advocate unemployment insurance during the Depression, and in 1928 had proven to be a superb campaigner all over the state, while Smith could not shake his national image as a Tammany politician from the Lower East Side. Roosevelt defeated Smith after a floor fight at the Democratic National Convention, increasing Smith's rancor. In his jealousy, Smith opposed the progressive legislation of the New Deal; he turned against himself and all that he had stood for by joining the reactionary Liberty League. Slayton calls Smith's turnabout one of the great tragedies of American politics in the 20th century.
If there was any redemption in Smith's career, it is to be found in the fact that he helped break down the walls of prejudice in American society, not only leading to Kennedy's election in 1960 but very likely to the nomination for vice president of Joseph Lieberman, the first Jew on a major party's ticket -- an act in the finest tradition of Alfred E. Smith. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 8, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A review on March 18 about "Empire Statesman: The Rise and Redemption of Al Smith," by Robert A. Slayton, included an erroneous reference from the book to the judicial career of Joseph Proskauer, a political adviser to Gov. Alfred E. Smith of New York in the 1920's. Proskauer became a justice in the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court; he was never a member of the Court of Appeals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LITERATURE (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); CHILDREN (71%); HISTORY (70%); ETHNICITY (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); ANNULMENT (54%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%) MITGANG, HERBERT; SLAYTON, ROBERT A; SMITH, ALFRED EMANUEL (1873-1944) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: EMPIRE STATESMAN: THE RISE AND REDEMPTION OF AL SMITH (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



477 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 4924 words

HEADLINE: The Post-Sharpton Sharpton 

BYLINE:  By Adam Nagourney; Adam Nagourney covers politics for The Times.

 BODY:
The Rev. Al Sharpton was wandering the halls of the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington, his hair combed neatly behind his ears, a three-piece, pinstriped suit hanging loosely from his bulbous frame, a cell phone to one ear and an aide at his back. This was a hearing day for President Bush's cabinet nominees on Capitol Hill, so the halls of the Congressional office buildings were bustling with television crews and reporters, which Sharpton had anticipated, and they all rushed over as soon as they saw him, which Sharpton had also anticipated. Another news conference done, this one denouncing John Ashcroft's nomination to be attorney general, Sharpton turned back up the hallway when he, quite unexpectedly, found himself chest to chest with Gen. Colin L. Powell, there for his confirmation hearings to become the nation's first black secretary of state. 
 Powell is one of the few black political figures who are actually better known than Al Sharpton today, though the two men could hardly have taken more different paths to their places in life. Sharpton invokes Powell, though not necessarily by name, as an example of the way black leaders should not act; the general is the kind of person Sharpton has in mind with a mocking riff he does on stuffy, conservative, upper-class blacks who "tilt their head a little and talk out of the right side of their mouth" and who look down on people like a certain New York organizer and agitator who keeps an office in Harlem and calls himself just Rev. Fittingly enough, Powell's escort is Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, who, upon spotting Sharpton, blanches and then stares vacantly away from the scene that is unfurling before him. 
 "Reverend Sharpton -- how are you?" Powell said, grasping Sharpton's hand. 
"Congratulations, general: you did well," Sharpton responded.
"We're going to do well," Powell responded, abandoning any pretense of small talk. "I think it's going to be an administration for all the people -- and we'll convince you of that."
Sharpton arched an eyebrow. "We'll see," he said.
"We will see," Powell said, smiling politely. "This is my wife, Alma."
Powell and his entourage glided up the hall, but Sharpton stopped to consider his moment: Gen. Colin Powell treating Al Sharpton like a peer in the halls of the nation's Capitol, and Sharpton's equally poised response to this new symbol of the American political establishment. Not long ago, Powell would almost surely have responded to such an encounter by increasing the pace of his step. Sharpton turned to the photographers in the hallway and said, "I think you just got your shot."
It has been more than 13 years since Al Sharpton embraced the cause of Tawana Brawley, the black Dutchess County teenager who claimed she was raped, identifying himself with a case that made him at once indelibly famous and, in many circles, politically toxic. Court proceedings stemming from that episode have continued almost ever since; most recently, he has resisted -- he would say he is negotiating -- an order to pay $65,000 in damages to the former Dutchess County assistant district attorney whom he accused of raping Brawley. The girl's tale of rape and abuse is one that no impartial judge or jury has ever accepted, but one that Sharpton, despite the strong urging of such self-described admirers as Edward I. Koch, former mayor of New York, has declined to renounce, to his lasting detriment.
It was the kind of debacle that should have ended any hope Sharpton had of becoming a national political force and limited his audience to the few hundred people, almost all black, who show up every Saturday morning for his rollicking sermons at his National Action Network headquarters on Madison Avenue and 124th Street. And it is why the mere mention of Sharpton's name draws, to this day, startlingly different reactions in different neighborhoods of New York: he is seen as inspirational or repellent; as the principled civil rights leader battling police brutality and a hostile mayor or as the publicity-seeking huckster, willing to ride the misery of others to fame.
For all of that, Sharpton has endured -- through the terms of two New York mayors and, soon, a third. He has run for office three times and has staged a series of "reinventions" of himself -- losing 83 pounds, cutting his hair, dressing like a lawyer, renting a satellite office in the Empire State Building. Sharpton has a glossy photograph of himself shaking hands with President Bill Clinton at last year's White House Christmas party on top of a pile on his desk in Harlem. How many people can boast of, in the space of a year, engineering the first Democratic presidential debate in Harlem and summoning virtually every major elected Democrat in New York to his second-floor headquarters for the annual celebration of Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday in January, which perhaps could be more aptly called a celebration of Al Sharpton. "Spitzer -- you get over here," Sharpton barked with a grin and a jerk of his thumb to the state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, who had mistakenly settled in with the mayoral candidates. "You statewide; this is my city section."
At 46, with streaks of gray glistening through his flattened hair, Sharpton has surely matured. But into what? Sharpton could run for mayor again, and he would almost surely lose, encouraging a new round of stories likening him to a Tom Wolfe caricature and inviting his own marginalization. Not surprisingly, Sharpton has told associates that he is unlikely to go down that road again this year. It is noteworthy, then, that Sharpton is spending more and more time traveling outside of New York these days. He is presenting himself -- from Washington to Florida, from Selma to Birmingham -- as a sort of post-civil-rights civil rights leader. More astonishingly, it is a claim to authority that no one is disputing.
The fact that a man this flawed, albeit one this talented, finds himself on the brink of this kind of opportunity suggests more than the success of Sharpton's relentless campaign for redemption and his tireless handling of the media. It is testimony to the enervated condition of the national civil rights movement today, as it struggles to find its role and mission, and searches, impossibly of course, for the next Martin Luther King. If King asked people to climb with him to the mountaintop, Sharpton's vision of civil rights is decidedly less grand. "Our fight is to preserve what our fathers won; to stabilize it and increase it," Sharpton said mildly.
That may be enough. The battle in Florida, and what Sharpton refers to as the see-lection of George W. Bush, have given a clarity -- relevance might be a more appropriate word -- to black protest politics that was largely absent under Clinton. The acknowledgment by the Rev. Jesse Jackson that he fathered an illegitimate child could not have come at a more opportune time for Sharpton, who had already been discreetly trying to elbow his mentor into the history books. Sharpton's foil of the past eight years, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, will leave City Hall at year's end, and Sharpton has chosen a new politician to join him on the field: a president whose policies he says are worse for blacks than even those promoted by Giuliani. "Rudy Giuliani has trained me to fight anybody," he said. "If I can handle Giuliani for eight years, George Bush I can fight half asleep."
Sharpton is a man of intelligence and charm, but what has distinguished him in New York is his mastery of process, politics and media. He is not a great social visionary or a deep political philosopher. But at a time when many black leaders and scholars suggest that there is no longer such a thing as the civil rights movement -- at least in the conventional sense of the word -- there doesn't seem to be a great demand for visionaries or philosophers. And Sharpton of all people recognizes that history has plopped him in a very large spotlight on a very empty stage. "I have the hunger to do it, because I really -- well, who else is out there?" he asked. 
Drudge? What is Drudge?"
Al Sharpton was seated in the front seat of a town car driving him to National Airport, staring out the window as he absorbed the information coming in by cell phone: The Drudge Report Web page had posted an item previewing the publication of the National Enquirer story about Jackson's young child. Sharpton had known this was coming and had already begun to consider its political implications -- for Jesse Jackson and for Al Sharpton. And from the moment Sharpton landed back in New York, he was the model friend. "How you doing?" Sharpton whispered hoarsely over the telephone to Jackson the next morning, when the story had moved, as Sharpton had predicted it would, from The Enquirer onto the front pages of many mainstream newspapers. "I spoke to a lot of people today. Everybody's praying for you." Sharpton offered himself up as Jackson's first defender to the morning television news programs. With a reporter and photographer seated with him in his office, Sharpton flitted between his speakerphone and cell phone as he conspicuously proclaimed his loyalty to Jackson. "He always stood up for us," Sharpton said into the phone. "I'm making a statement today." There were nine television cameras waiting as Sharpton sauntered slowly out to make his statement in the big hall outside his office, with the photo of Jesse Jackson standing with Sharpton hanging on one wall and a carved, three-foot-high wooden fist tucked in a corner across the room. "My grandmother used to tell me that life is not about falling down, life is about getting up," Sharpton said, sounding mournful. "And sometimes, when you fall, the challenge is to get up and keep going. And real friends give them room to get up."
There were some black leaders who, as Sharpton noted later, had remained silent that day. Still, this was a turn of events that may well have benefited Sharpton nearly as much as it hurt his friend in Chicago. The story emerged at a time of tension between the two, and when Sharpton had shown signs of growing restless in New York. The episode gave him an opportunity to affirm his loyalty to Jackson. Sharpton had for weeks been urging his followers to ignore reports about the discord, insisting that they were efforts by the media to stir up trouble. Characteristically, he used charm and humor to make the point in one of his weekly sermons at the House of Justice, the name that Jackson bestowed on Sharpton's headquarters. "You can bite someone that you love," Sharpton said, referring to Jackson. "I bite fried chicken every day. When I went down South to see my grandmother, chickens used to disguise themselves as pigs, because they knew if I saw them, they would be heading for the frying pan. They'd walk around my grandmother's yard going, 'Oink, oink, oink!' " 
But pigs and chickens aside, Sharpton has made little secret of his unhappiness with the state of black politics and of his view that Jackson's time had passed. As soon as Bush's election was settled, he began speaking disparagingly of civil rights leaders who had chosen to work inside the system under Clinton. It was obvious whom Sharpton had in mind. "Those of us that stayed true to the traditional civil rights stance of holding representatives accountable don't have a lot of readjusting to do," he said over breakfast at a diner on Florida Avenue in Washington. "Because even if we were basically supportive of the president's political agenda, we never stopped challenging him on policy issues: welfare reform, the crime bill. I had a huge march here last year on racial profiling. It's not like we've got to go back, it's not like I got to mobilize our forces. We never demobilized. A lot of guys who kind of cashed in their chips and became part of the establishment are now trying to go back and re-establish themselves in the community, and it's been a difficult transition. One, the community is different, a lot of them are younger and don't know them, and two, some of the older people don't trust them. They say: 'Where you been? Where you been?' "
The dominant public image of Jesse Jackson in recent years, Sharpton suggests, was at Clinton's side during the former president's time of marital difficulty, "which is certainly not a profile of civil rights leadership." Sharpton often notes that the age difference between himself and Jackson, 13 years, is about the same as the difference between Jackson and Martin Luther King. Jackson, he suggests, reached his pinnacle sometime in the 1980's. "He is still relevant, but I think he's certainly seen his peak days," Sharpton said one evening on the way to Brooklyn. "His star kind of has fallen in the community. I still say he was my mentor and teacher. But hey -- Muhammad Ali can't fight no more, but he's still a great champion."
In January, Sharpton assembled black political leaders at a Harlem church to show support for Jackson, in town for the first time since the news broke about his out-of-wedlock daughter. Two of the most recognizable black leaders in America today sat elbow to elbow on the stage, Jackson appearing wan and humiliated, Sharpton bouncing and swaying to the swelling chords of gospel music and grinning at the television cameras packed in the pews. Sharpton stopped for a moment to survey which black leaders had actually turned out for Jesse Jackson on this cold winter night in Harlem. And then he leaned over to his 59-year-old mentor.
"Let me go back and get the Geritol," Sharpton whispered slyly. 
Jackson had expressed annoyance to associates over news reports that quoted "sources close to Sharpton" disparaging Jackson. As the minister knows, there really is no such thing as sources close to Sharpton: there is only Sharpton. Jackson, in an interview, chose his words carefully when asked to assess Sharpton, suggesting that he considers at least some of Sharpton's success to be little more than a consequence of being there. "Al has created a definite national niche," Jackson said a few days before the Enquirer story. Only time will tell how broad it will get. He has endured, over a period of time. There's a longevity factor: he's been around critical stuff for a long time." 
Jackson grew indignant at the suggestion that his own time had passed. "Leadership is driven more by relevance than age," Jackson said, a drop of acid in his voice. "Mandela was a hero of South Africa at 76. That's a romantic notion of leadership. Leadership is not given out according to age or gender." Asked about Sharpton's argument that there was a price to be paid for working inside the system, Jackson responded by -- well, by not. "I'm not sure what that means," he said tersely.
Jackson has some notable advantages over Sharpton, and it is hardly certain that his recent difficulties, including the publicly raised questions about his finances, will marginalize him as much as those sources close to Sharpton might anticipate. These two men operate on different planes: on the same recent Sunday morning, Jackson was a guest on "This Week" on ABC; Sharpton was the guest on the pretaped morning interview show of ABC's New York affiliate. The night that Sharpton arranged the Jackson rally, Jackson was in town for a display of his own influence: his Wall Street Project. Jackson was the first black man to run a serious campaign for president; and he used his candidacy to shape the Democratic Party platform in 1988 almost as much as did the views put forth by Michael Dukakis, the man who won the nomination. 
For his part, while Sharpton may not have easy access to corporate boardrooms in America, he can arrange, in a flash, a full-fledged protest, with television coverage that would make the candidates for mayor jealous. "I don't think the average white New Yorker understands the infrastructure I have," he says. "We have an organization. I have 12 people on payroll." Still, he remains more of an outlaw, a renegade: it's politics on the edge. There are stylistic differences as well. Jackson is a commanding and regal presence. Sharpton lacks that kind of gravity. But one thing that makes Sharpton endure is his style: unpretentious, self-effacing and ironic, as he offers a constant patter of self-commentary on the scenes in which he is a player. In early January Sharpton was late for a joint news conference with Jackson at Riverside Church in Manhattan, and he worried that his tardiness would be portrayed as an affront to Jackson. When he finally arrived, 22 minutes after it was scheduled to begin, he rushed over to Jackson, bowed deeply, in a pseudodramatic act of contrition, and made as if to kiss Jackson's hand. It is difficult to imagine Jesse Jackson -- or Dr. King -- trying a stunt like that, but it disarmed Jackson, and Sharpton won the moment. People who meet Sharpton, as opposed to just reading about him or seeing him on television, usually like him.
Sharpton is where he is today because he has mastered the process of politics and media at a time when questions of philosophy and agenda have become so murky. He has a better sense of how the news business works than some of the people who cover him. Sharpton has a full-time public relations person on his payroll and appears to spend half his waking hours tending to his press coverage. Even in New York, Sharpton stands tall as a pressmonger: he was reminiscing in his office recently about the first sermon he preached, on July 9, 1959, when he was 4 years old, at Washington Temple Church in Brooklyn. Sharpton paused for a moment, and Representative Jose E. Serrano, Democrat of the Bronx, who was seated across the desk, interjected archly: "Later that same day, he held a press conference on toxic art supplies for children." Even Sharpton had to laugh.
Sharpton is a difficult figure to profile because he is always trying to anticipate his story and graciously trying to arrange his life to fit -- or alter -- the story line. Is Al Sharpton going national? Suddenly, Sharpton is musing aloud about the challenges of being a national civil rights leader. Just how influential is the new Al Sharpton? There he is on the intercom to his secretary, ordering up a run of phone calls -- Get me David Dinkins! Get me Maynard Jackson! Get me Johnnie Cochran!" -- that provide more anecdotal material than any profiler could ever ask for. Has Al Sharpton achieved a new-found respectability? On one of his trips to Washington, he showed up unannounced at the office of Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr. and watched as Jackson's aides rushed out to summon the Illinois congressman back from session to greet his guest. "Part of being influential is when you can interrupt a congressman from the floor," he said helpfully. 
"This is the most educated, economically resourceful generation of blacks in the history of our country. And we have less to show for it than we have ever had."
It is Sunday morning on Staten Island, and Al Sharpton, wearing a shiny black robe with red trim and an embroidered cross on each lapel, is preaching at the First Central Baptist Church to the biggest turnout anyone there can remember. Congregants are hanging over the balcony, spilling out the front door and down the stone steps. All to hear this guest preacher berate the black men, women and children who came to church that Sunday morning.
"Nobody is blowing up your car," Sharpton bellowed from the pulpit. "Nobody is shooting you at your back door. Nobody is rolling bulldozers over you. Nice job. Nice car. Credit cards in your pocket. And you too lazy and ungrateful to do what someone else did for you 30 years ago." Rolling on his feet, dabbing sweat off his forehead with a white handkerchief, pushing his belly up against the pulpit, Sharpton, who does not have a congregation of his own, reminded his audience of the 1963 march on Washington, about the men and women who "had to ride all night because the motel wouldn't rent them a room. Some of them had a greasy paper bag with fried chicken sandwiches because there was no restaurant that would serve them a meal. Some of them had to ride for miles holding their body because they couldn't even use the public toilet. But they dreamed for us.
"The sickness of our day is that most of us have lost our dream," he continued. "What do you mean, Sharpton? Well, in the 60's, when we had nothing, we could look at the culture and tell how we dreamed. Aretha Franklin singing 'Respect.' James Brown singing 'Black and Proud.' Well, let's go from there to now. Because from Aretha, queen of soul, we have gone to Niggas With Attitude. Somewhere along the way, our ambition died. We were beaten down and submitted and gave up our dream." Sharpton's sermon roared into its peroration, a rolling, rhythmic growl, as off to the side, the church organist started punctuating each rising phrase with a chord, and Al Sharpton began -- to sing!
In my life . . . I've had to cry sometime./In my life . . . I walked alone sometime. 
I have been lied on!/Cheated!/ Misleaded!/ I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I 
I've been up. . . . /I've been down./I've been leveled . . . to the ground. 
I've been stabbed!/I've been indicted!/But through it all/I -I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-
I trusted in God!
And then, with one last roar, Al Sharpton executed two 360-degree spins on his heavy heels and collapsed in a sweaty heap on his chair.
This was more than just another Sunday-morning performance by Sharpton. It was a shout of frustration from the pulpit, an attempt to rouse a middle-class black constituency whose taste for social action has faded with the relative contentment of the Clinton years. And it was a sermon that could have been voiced by any of the people who continue to describe their line of work as civil rights activist. "It's much more difficult to organize and mobilize young people today than it was 35, 40 years ago," said Martin Luther King III, who today is the president of his father's organization, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. "It's certainly not impossible, but when it comes to issues of race, there's a veil over them, and they appear to be less visible to a generation that did not have to ride in separate facilities, that can in fact go to the movie theater and enjoy any film they want to, and go to any restaurant to eat." Sharpton suggests that this change is a direct consequence of the accomplishments posted by King's father. "We are fighting the success of our movement," Sharpton said. "Blacks have benefited more. You have more blacks in college, you have more blacks making money. So they feel they can afford to be less political." Sharpton and King argue that the issues facing black Americans today are no less urgent than they were 35 years ago; they are just less obvious. That is why the election of George W. Bush was not exactly a cause of distress at the National Action Network headquarters; it has given Sharpton something to shout about at his sermons and rallies.
Sharpton's sermon on Staten Island was intended to shame his audience into going to Washington for his "shadow inauguration," a counterpoint to the real inauguration going on up the street. But the appetite for this kind of protest is not what it was. The diminution of Louis Farrakhan's movement after his Million Man March is an indication in large part of the limited market for street protest. Sharpton surely realized how unlikely it was that his middle-class Staten Island crowd would ever make the five-hour drive to Washington on a wet winter morning. Still he disputed any suggestion that it meant that he was out of step with the people he would like to lead. "Even if they don't participate, they realize the necessity of it, which is why they'll support me even if they don't go to a march," he said. 
But Jesse Jackson was on to something when he moved away from the streets and the pulpit to run for president and later created the Wall Street Project to lobby for employment and contracts for blacks. "There is not a civil rights movement anymore," said H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller who is trying to become New York's first black governor. "The civil rights movement has changed. I think the issue now for the African-American community is political empowerment, economic empowerment. In a sense, the civil rights era has migrated to those new major issues."
If the fight is about economic empowerment, then there are arguably no better symbols of this than Jesse Jackson or McCall. And if it is about black political empowerment, is there any better symbol of that than Colin Powell himself? Sharpton is a political hurricane in New York City. But he has little hope of ever becoming mayor. By contrast, Powell, McCall and David N. Dinkins, the first black mayor of New York City, are not protest anythings: they are symbols of political empowerment. Sharpton can point out that they have reached their stations by building on the struggle of the people who rode buses or who got beat up 30 years ago -- but that was the point, wasn't it? There are moments when Sharpton seems like a Japanese soldier stranded on a Pacific island, still fighting World War II. His signature issue is battling police abuse, and white and black politicians praise his advances in that area. But while police misconduct was fertile ground for remediation and protest in the 1990's, it may prove to be a less compelling issue in this decade, as cities like New York and Los Angeles have begun, if grudgingly, to respond to the very issues so effectively raised by Sharpton. There is no Bull Connor rushing forward to defend the police officers who pull over black drivers randomly. Sharpton starts his Saturday morning rally with a responsive shout -- No justice!" he says; "No peace!" his audience shouts back -- but its resonance is a function of what is in the headlines. In fact, much of what is in Sharpton speeches is derived from the morning headlines. Representative Charles B. Rangel, the Democrat who took Adam Clayton Powell's seat in Harlem, says that Sharpton calls him in Washington all the time to talk politics. But Rangel said he cannot recall a single time when Sharpton inquired about the status of a piece of pending legislation. 
Al Sharpton was sitting in the back corner of a white stretch limousine that was taking him through a cold night from Baltimore to Washington for a television interview. As always, Sharpton was restless, checking his cell phone for messages, jiggling in his seat, humming gospel songs to himself -- and raising the subject of Tawana Brawley.
It always comes back to Tawana Brawley. Sharpton and his supporters like to say that everyone else keeps bringing up the episode. But the truth is that it is Sharpton who raises it, and he does it often. His insistence on revisiting the case suggests his appreciation of just how damaging it continues to be. "Where it has cost me some acceptance, in some circles, it also in my own soul has made me strong -- and has caused me to have a national following of people who say, 'He will stand up for what he believes and he will not sell us out,' " Sharpton said, his voice drifting forward from the shadows in the darkened back corner of the limousine.
"I mean, how long are you going to talk about Tawana Brawley?" he said, the frustration obvious in his voice. 
Sharpton even raises the subject with his supporters. "I stood up and believed in the honor of a young woman, when I was 32 years old," he said at a Saturday morning rally. "You're putting a man in the White House who was driving drunk older than that. He was drunk! Hel-lo? So what kind of standards you put on him?" (In fact, Bush was 30 at the time of his drunk-driving arrest.)
"It's like Hymietown with Jesse Jackson," Sharpton says at still another point, this time artfully pressing one of the less fortunate moments in Jackson's career into the defense of his actions in the Brawley case. "It will always come up. But I think over the course of time, it loses its influence."
And yet, it is hard to imagine anything that has so checked Sharpton's political authority. Ed Koch says Sharpton promised to mount a pulpit and apologize for his advocacy of Tawana Brawley's case but then reneged. Sharpton denies that. Whatever the case, Koch, who had for a moment emerged as the single most credible validator Sharpton could ask for, has drawn a curtain between himself and Sharpton. " 'I don't think you're a racist, and I don't think you're an anti-Semite,' " Koch said he told Sharpton. " 'I just think you're a demagogue. But you can get over that, and you could be a first-class leader.' " Some of Sharpton's associates suggest that he has not repudiated Brawley because he fears it would distress his strongest supporters. Sharpton says he has stuck by Brawley for one simple reason: he believes something happened to her. Whatever the case, Sharpton now appears set in his decision and prepared to live with its consequences.
In New York, the consequence is that few people believe that the city's best-known black public figure has any chance of becoming its second black mayor. It is one more reason why expanding the boundaries of his playing field must seem so tempting: to go someplace where those images of Sharpton standing next to Tawana Brawley aren't quite so raw. Of course, it all gets back to Sharpton. His moment may indeed be here. The question, though, is not whether the nation is ready for Al Sharpton but whether Al Sharpton is ready for the nation.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sharpton rallied black leaders around a humbled Jackson in Harlem in January.; Across the divide: Sharpton and Powell during a chance meeting in Washington in January. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%) BLACKS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SEX CRIMES 

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; SHARPTON, AL (REV); BRAWLEY, TAWANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



478 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Power in Overdrive 

BYLINE:  By Robert B. Reich; Robert B. Reich, former labor secretary, is professor of economic and social policy at Brandeis University and author of "The Future of Success."

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
With last week's reversal of his campaign pledge to limit power plants' emissions of carbon dioxide, a key contributor to global warming, President Bush surrendered to coal companies and utilities dependent on coal. He had little choice. It's payback time, and every industry and trade association is busily cashing in.
 There's no longer any countervailing power in Washington. Business is in complete control of the machinery of government. The House, the Senate and the White House are all run by business-friendly Republicans who are deeply indebted to American business for their electoral victories. If corporate America understood its long-term interest, it would use this unique moment to establish in the public's mind the principle that business can be trusted. But it's doing the opposite, and the danger for American business as a whole is profound. 
 Credit-card companies are getting a bankruptcy bill that will make it harder for overstretched people who succumbed to these companies' blandishments ever to get out from under the resulting debts. Oil companies are on the way to obtaining rights to drill on Alaska's coastal plain. Cigarette manufacturers are confident the administration will drop the federal lawsuit against them. Pharmaceutical companies are hoping to get longer patent protections. Big, labor-intensive businesses want to get rules that weaken unions, and they've already killed the Labor Department's ergonomics rules, which would have protected workers against repetitive-stress injuries. Airlines with labor problems can count on White House actions to ward off strikes. And so on.
In normal times -- when business has to cope with some political resistance -- its leaders are forced to set strict priorities. There is only a fixed amount of political capital to spend. The Business Roundtable, comprising the chief executives of large American companies, typically establishes at the start of a new Congress a legislative agenda reflecting what its members consider the most important issues. The United States Chamber of Commerce, after canvassing its mostly small and medium-sized member businesses to determine their priorities, also develops a strategy. The National Association of Manufacturers weighs in with its wish list. And the National Federation of Independent Business, composed of small firms, sets its goals.
These groups do not always see eye to eye, but under normal circumstances they understand that legislative success requires coordination. Separately, they lack the political clout to overcome determined resistance in one or both houses of Congress or from a president at least partly dependent for his political future on organized labor, environmentalists and other interests besides business.
The trade associations representing specific industries -- coal-powered utilities, pharmaceuticals, hospitals, electronics, securities, oil and gas, for example -- typically play supporting roles. Their own parochial legislative goals can't interfere directly with the priorities of business as a whole because the industries often have to depend on the larger business groups to be heard. Specific firms may retain their own Washington lobbyists, but they, too, have to work with others in order to have significant effect.
Political resistance, in other words, forces the business community to decide what's most important to it. It thereby enables corporate America to exert some discipline over itself. Business leaders can prevent or at least distance themselves from excesses by any single company or industry that might otherwise taint business as a whole in the minds of the public.
American business notably did not come to the aid of cigarette manufacturers when lawsuits against them began several years ago. Nor has corporate America as a whole fought on behalf of the gun lobby. Labor and environmental rules with broad consequences typically become high priorities for legislative attack, but not all such rules. In the first Clinton administration, the business community was quite happy to let the Labor Department target apparel manufacturers and major retailers in its crackdown on sweatshops. I recall a number of White House meetings in which the leaders of major business organizations quietly assented to the administration's plans to block subsidies flowing to a particular industry, or to impose new clean-air rules on another industry, or to move aggressively with an antitrust complaint.
With political resistance gone, the business community can, paradoxically, no longer discipline itself. Every business lobbyist on K Street is under enormous pressure from clients to reap something from the new bonanza. Every trade association must demonstrate to its members large returns from their investments in getting an all-Republican business-friendly government. And the pressure only ratchets upward: Every time one company or one industry receives its reward, other Washington lobbyists, representing other firms or industries, come under even more pressure to score victories.
Nor can the Republicans themselves provide any discipline. Washington is awash in corporate i.o.u.'s, all waiting to be cashed in, and George W. Bush can't argue that the Democrats will block the payoffs. Under these circumstances, the Bush forces are finding it next to impossible to maintain order. Demands for regulatory relief are growing louder, and most will have to be met. Corporate welfare will flow ever more freely. Once the tax bill is open to amendment, corporate tax breaks will blossom like the cherry trees.
At some point -- perhaps as soon as the 2002 midterm elections, surely no later than the next presidential election -- the public will be aghast at what is happening. The backlash against business may be thunderous. Hence the great danger that corporate American confronts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL INDUSTRY (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); ERGONOMICS (69%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); TOBACCO MFG (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (64%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (53%); PATENTS (51%); LITIGATION (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



479 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
How the C.I.A.'s Judgments Were Distorted by Cold War Catechisms

BYLINE:  By PHILIP TAUBMAN

 BODY:
When I was based in Moscow for this newspaper during the early years of Mikhail Gorbachev's run as Soviet leader, I sometimes wondered what the Central Intelligence Agency was telling President Ronald Reagan about the rapidly changing state of the Soviet Union. Now I know.
 The answer was delivered the other day by Federal Express. It came in the form of two red CD-ROM's adorned with a hammer and sickle. They contain nearly 20,000 pages of what were once some of Washington's most secret documents, the C.I.A.'s assessments of the Soviet Union from 1947 to 1991. The reports were recently declassified by the C.I.A. and were the subject of a conference earlier this month at Princeton University attended by many former agency analysts. Here, at my fingertips, was the best intelligence that hundreds of billions of dollars in spy hardware and manpower had bought for the United States. 
 After hours of reading about the Gorbachev era, I am sorry to report that the government didn't get its money's worth. In paper after paper, the C.I.A. seemed reluctant to let go of the cold war, even long after Mr. Gorbachev made it abundantly clear that he wanted to reduce international tensions and discard Moscow's ideological outlook on the world. The agency was more open-minded about Mr. Gorbachev's domestic reforms and eventually produced some insightful examinations of social, political and economic change. But even on these matters, the C.I.A. was slow to appreciate the alterations that Mr. Gorbachev was making, and many of its best papers were dated by the time they reached policy makers.
I offer these judgments with a healthy dose of humility. During the initial months of Mr. Gorbachev's rule in 1985 and 1986, his intentions were unclear and his foreign and domestic programs were not fully formed. Later, as the social and political forces he unleashed at home and in Eastern Europe raced beyond his control, no one could predict with certainty where they would lead. The American journalists stationed in Moscow during this period struggled with these questions as well.
The C.I.A. record is also not yet complete. The two disks cover the entire course of the cold war, yet they contain only a sampling of the assessments produced over more than four decades, ending with Mr. Gorbachev's last year in office. A limited batch of other assessments dealing mostly with military matters was declassified earlier. 
As more documents enter the public domain in coming years, scholars will continue to debate the agency's overall performance, including the core issue of whether the C.I.A. accurately gauged Moscow's military and economic strength. Liberal critics argue that the agency exaggerated Soviet power, leading the United States to spend more on its military forces than needed. Conservatives contend that the agency underestimated the Soviet threat.
My partial review of reports from the new disks suggests that the agency acquitted itself reasonably well on economic matters in the 1970's and early part of the 1980's, accurately forecasting and tracking the economic stagnation that gripped the Soviet Union during many of those years. The newly declassified materials do not resolve the debate about Soviet military power.
On the narrower issue of the Gorbachev reforms, I found many of the papers to be maddening. The discussions of Mr. Gorbachev's diplomatic moves betray an inflexible cold-war mindset. That is understandable in the months after he assumed power and presented a series of arms reduction proposals that seemed aimed more at influencing world opinion than at actually making agreements with the United States. 
But as Mr. Gorbachev persisted in his arms control efforts, and in late 1988 announced reductions in Soviet military forces and the withdrawal of six tank divisions from Eastern Europe, the agency remained unimpressed. While acknowledging that Mr. Gorbachev was making bold changes in foreign policy, the agency's dreary February 1989 analysis of these steps said Moscow's broad strategy remained steeped in the Leninist tradition of trying to exploit contradictions between capitalist powers. Just nine months before the Kremlin stood aside as the Berlin Wall fell, the C.I.A. was confidently asserting that Moscow's long-range objectives included preserving Soviet hegemony in Eastern Europe and driving a wedge between Western Europe and the United States.
Americans should be grateful that Mr. Reagan and his secretary of state, George Shultz, paid little heed to the agency's moldy views and instead pursued a variety of diplomatic initiatives with Mr. Gorbachev, based on their personal interactions with the Soviet leader. Mr. Reagan, of course, also pumped up Pentagon spending, which added to the economic pressures on Moscow. 
On the domestic side, I found plenty of thoughtful reports about important issues, including growing opposition within the Soviet Union to the war in Afghanistan and the corrosive effect of the Chernobyl nuclear accident on the Kremlin's authority and credibility. One especially notable economic analysis in July 1987 concluded that Mr. Gorbachev's campaign to relax censorship and to promote limited forms of democracy could eventually undermine his power and provoke party conservatives to remove him. That report was prescient, but too many studies trailed developments rather than anticipating them or covered trends well after they had become apparent.
One lesson of this record is that intelligence agencies must be wary of conventional thinking and assumption-driven analysis. The C.I.A. was a creature of the cold war, so much so that it could not imagine that Soviet behavior might change in fundamental ways that would allow the Berlin Wall to fall and democratic ideas to gain ground in Russia.
Another message is that while sophisticated spy satellites and electronic eavesdropping techniques can monitor military forces, keep track of crop yields and intercept communications, the social and political fabric of a society can be understood only by people living in it. Many of the top agency officials who supervised the preparation of these reports never set foot in the Soviet Union during the cold war. Secrecy restrictions barred them from going. 
If these documents are a chronicle of the limits of intelligence, they are also powerful evidence of the importance of opening sealed archives so citizens can review the performance of their government. Robert Gates began the systematic effort to declassify intelligence assessments when he served as director of central intelligence in the early 1990's. He is quick to defend the agency's record in assessing the Soviet Union. Thanks to his enlightened leadership in opening the files, Americans can now form their own judgments. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ESPIONAGE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (94%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



480 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Bush Team Getting Initiation On Turkey's Ailing Economy 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS FRANTZ 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, March 17 

 BODY:
Turkey loved to proclaim that its muscular economy would push aside irksome issues of human rights and democracy to kick open the door to the European Union, but recent stumbles reduced the economy to a 98-pound weakling and raised questions about just where the country is headed. 
 The faltering finances do not have a direct impact on whether Turkey joins the European club or its position as an important American friend in a tough neighborhood. But unless the collapse is reversed, many people fear that the progressive faction pushing for integration with the West and accompanying reforms will face a far harder task. 
 "A Turkey that is stable and part of the Western system is a much better player and role model in the region than a Turkey that is inward- looking and feeling insecure," said Cem Duna, a business leader and formerly Turkish ambassador to the European Union. "But a stable Turkey now means help from the United States and Europe." 
Turkey is scarcely noticed by most Americans unless it plays a role in a war or there is an earthquake, and it rarely tops the list of policy issues in Washington. But since the Turkish lira went into a free fall last month, the country's profile has risen sharply with the Bush administration. 
Part of the concern is potential spillover. Economists worry that a loss of confidence here could spread to other emerging markets. It is a danger that makes Turkey the first serious test for the administration's international economics team.
What is equally important is the recognition that Turkey's internal problems could complicate relations with volatile regions in the Middle East, the Caucasus and Central Asia. 
For instance, the American sanctions against Iraq have cost Turkish businesses billions of dollars and the economic crisis has increased pressure on Turkey to resume trade with Iraq. This week, a trade delegation visited Iraq, and Turkey recently sent its first ambassador to Baghdad since the gulf war.
At the same time, Turkey is a critical partner in the Baku-Ceyhan oil pipeline backed by the United States and its recent attempts to assume a larger role in the Caucasus and Central Asia are welcomed in Washington as an antidote to potential Russian meddling. 
The Clinton administration helped Turkey through a period of weak governments and, since the economy started sagging last month, President Bush and other officials have offered their support publicly. 
But financial analysts and diplomats alike say Turkey requires more to overcome the economic crisis than American friendship; it needs pressure from the administration on the International Monetary Fund to provide billions more in loans to Turkey. 
"The United States clearly wants to help Turkey, but the question is whether opening the sluice gates really helps," said Morton Abramowitz, a former American ambassador to Ankara, in a telephone interview from Washington. "It may be in the end it's all you can do and we should do it."
The United States faces its own domestic economic troubles and Mr. Bush and many of his top advisers are wary of economic intervention. Even if they overcome their reluctance, they must decide whether the three-way coalition that runs Turkey is strong enough and reform-minded enough to put $20 billion to $40 billion in new loans to good use restructuring banking and reducing corruption. 
"Turkey has a very weak political system," Mr. Abramowitz said, "the coalition government is a mixed bag and what's keeping it going is fear that the alternative is worse." 
Before further commitments are made, American officials want to see more of the economic remedy being developed by the Turks. They also want assurances that Kemal Dervis, the former World Bank executive brought in March 2 as economic minister, has the authority to carry out substantial reforms, like stripping the political parties of their control over state-owned banks. The Turkish press has carried articles filled with doubts about whether the coalition's two junior parties would give up enough power to allow real reforms. 
On Thursday, the day after Mr. Dervis announced the first steps toward stabilizing the economy, the United States ambassador, Robert Pearson, met with Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit to make sure Mr. Dervis has the necessary political backing. Turkish officials familiar with the visit said Mr. Ecevit said the economic minister has the full backing of the coalition.
The end of the crisis is well down the road and the last three weeks have underscored a harsh reality: Turks cannot take the stability of their economy for granted, nor can their allies in Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); TRENDS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); DESERT STORM (72%); POLITICS (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (62%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) FRANTZ, DOUGLAS; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%); ANKARA, TURKEY (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (68%) UNITED STATES (99%); TURKEY (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



481 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: A MAD SCRAMBLE FOR PLUM POSTS 

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY and RAYMOND BONNER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 17 

 BODY:
Charles Gargano, New York State's economic development czar, has arranged for an array of backers, including Gov. George E. Pataki, to plug his name with the White House as the perfect United States ambassador to Rome.
 But Mr. Gargano has also seen to it that another letter found its way into his file in the West Wing: a recent missive from the Manhattan district attorney, Robert M. Morgenthau, clearing him of criminal charges after a two-year investigation of the Empire State Development Corporation, which Mr. Gargano heads. 
 White House aides chuckled over the Morgenthau letter, which they considered one of the more unconventional recommendations received during a mad scramble for ambassadorships by friends and political allies of President Bush. 
"We've gotten a lot of calls and letters from governors and other politicians," said Clay Johnson, who is on the receiving end of the lobbying efforts as the White House director of presidential personnel. "They do a good job of representing their fine citizens."
Mr. Gargano is one of 1,700 people seeking top jobs at American embassies, according to White House aides. Two hundred made the first cut. In the end, 49 lucky political appointees will receive the keys to an ambassador's residence, about the same as in other recent administrations. 
At first glance, the applicants seem to have little in common, and sometimes little that would qualify them for a foreign post. Yet the vast majority of these committed Republicans have shared in a common pastime: raising money, huge quantities of it, for the president. In fact, significant overlap exists between the ambassadorial candidates and the Pioneers, the special roster of Bush fund-raisers who rounded up at least $100,000 for the campaign. 
Some of them also donated another $100,000 to Mr. Bush's Inaugural celebration, which was the upper limit for individuals. 
As the Senate prepares to open formal debate Monday on proposals to change the campaign finance system, this selection process for some of the most prestigious diplomatic positions underscores how significant political donations can win access, and sometimes even comfortable ambassadorial jobs. 
For his part, Mr. Johnson said he has no list of campaign contributors sitting beside his desk to help him decide whether contributor A is better qualified for a particular posting than contributor B. But he is not shy about saying that backing the president financially is one way of getting a foot in the door. 
Every last posting is personally approved by Mr. Bush, the first step in a long process that will include a grilling before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. 
"The president responds to people he has a level of comfort with," Mr. Johnson said. "Is the person a longtime friend? How close does he feel to the person? Has the person really gone out of their way to help him become president?" 
Take, for instance, Howard H. Leach of San Francisco, an agricultural business investment banker and former finance chairman of the Republican National Committee who has donated $282,000 to Mr. Bush and other Republicans. He is in line to go to the creme de la creme of ambassadorial postings, Paris, and is said to have already begun studying French. 
Will Farish, a horse breeder and longtime friend of the Bush family, is headed for London, and Richard J. Egan, an entrepreneur and major campaign contributor, has been tapped for Dublin. Mercer Reynolds, who invested with Mr. Bush in the Texas Rangers and contributed heavily in his presidential campaign effort, is the top candidate for the American Embassy in Switzerland.
Mr. Reynolds's business partner, William O. DeWitt Jr., who was another major investor in the Texas baseball franchise and now owns the St. Louis Cardinals, is also in the running for an ambassadorship. Mr. Reynolds and Mr. DeWitt helped bail out Mr. Bush's struggling Arbusto Energy concern in 1984, and they helped him become rich with the Rangers.
Each of them -- Mr. Leach, Mr. Farish, Mr. Egan, Mr. Reynolds and Mr. DeWitt -- contributed $100,000 to the Bush-Cheney 2001 Presidential Inaugural Committee, records show. In addition, all of them except Mr. Farish were Bush Pioneers.
A possible candidate for ambassador to the Vatican is Jim Nicholson, a Catholic and the former chairman of the Republican National Committee who oversaw the record-breaking roundup of political contributions in recent years. 
Julie Finley, a prominent Washington soft-money donor, is considered a leading candidate for Vienna. Stuart A. Bernstein, former chairman of Team 100, the R.N.C.'s club for $100,000-plus donors, is probably heading to Denmark.
"What we're seeing is what we always see at the start of a new administration," said Charles Black, a veteran Republican political operative at Black, Kelly, Scruggs & Healey. "Ambassadorships are greatly prized jobs and a whole lot of people want them. This is Washington, so people are doing what they do here: running lobbying campaigns for the job." 
But, alas, there are not enough embassies to go around. The United States staffs about 160 of them around the world, as well as specialized posts like ambassadors to United Nations missions in Geneva and Vienna. Hardship assignments in Latin America, Africa and Asia have few takers among the donor community, and will go largely to the professionals. 
Plum posts in Western Europe and on some Caribbean islands are mostly set aside for patronage. 
Over the grumblings of career diplomats, recent administrations have set aside about a third of the ambassadorial jobs for political appointees, with the rest going to veteran foreign service officers.
Mr. Gargano, who like others seeking ambassadorships declined to be interviewed, has waged a successful campaign before. He was ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago during the administration of former President George Bush. With plenty of competition for the Rome posting, Mr. Gargano brought up the Morgenthau investigation for a reason: It already cost him one job with Mr. Bush. He had been in line to become chairman of the Bush New York campaign effort just about the time the inquiry surfaced. And Mr. Gargano has a few things going for him. He was born in Italy and speaks the language. He has some heavy hitters backing him. And he has helped the party's coffers as an aggressive fund-raiser. "He's very flattered by these voices of support," said Maura Gallucci, a spokeswoman for Mr. Gargano.
The National Italian American Foundation sent a letter to the White House on Friday suggesting Mr. Gargano and four others for the job, including Lucio Noto, retired vice chairman of the Exxon Mobil Corporation, and William Martini, a former New Jersey congressman. "We believe it should be an Italian-American in Rome and we have made that clear to the White House," said Frank J. Guarini, a former New Jersey congressman who is chairman of the foundation.
Several candidates have already served in political life.
Gov. Paul Cellucci of Massachusetts was recently nominated as the United States ambassador in Ottawa. Daniel R. Coats, a former senator from Indiana who was passed over as secretary of defense, is the top contender for the embassy in Berlin. Howard H. Baker Jr., former senator from Tennessee, may go to Tokyo.
Professional diplomats, not surprisingly, are less than thrilled when campaign givers are rewarded with the rank of ambassador. They have many tales about donors who ended up embarrassing their country rather than advancing its foreign policy goals.
"I feel that most ambassadors should be career foreign service officers," said Arthur W. Lewis, a retired foreign service officer and cousin of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell who served as an ambassador to Sierra Leone in the 1980's.
"I've always said that if you don't understand the history of a region, you don't understand the present or the future of it." 
But foreign countries do not always cringe when a political ambassador moves in. 
With its ideal climate, expansive beaches and laid-back way of life, Australia is a much sought-after posting for friends of the president, and many have been sent. But that does not bother the Australians.
"Australia has no complaints about the political appointees that have been sent," said Michael Thawley, the Australian ambassador here, who is a career foreign service officer himself. "What you want is a quality person who is taken seriously in his own capital."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Gargano would like to be American ambassador to Rome. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); LOBBYING (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%) UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES; ELECTIONS 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) LACEY, MARC; BONNER, RAYMOND; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



482 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
The Law of Unintended Consequences

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
THOMAS M. DAVIS 3RD, the Virginia congressman who runs the House Republicans' re-election effort, is a canny practitioner of politics. So it should be no surprise that even as the Senate stands on the threshold of a far-ranging debate on the campaign finance law, Mr. Davis can already see how the political parties might circumvent Senator John McCain's drive to ban them from accepting large, unregulated contributions -- just as so many earlier reform efforts have been circumvented. 
 This time, Mr. Davis said, state political parties could morph into two separate groups -- official political parties for the nominating process and unofficial shadow parties to raise money for TV ads. "That's how you'll probably end up getting around it," he predicted. 
 Since 1907, when Progressive-era revulsion at the robber barons helped Theodore Roosevelt win a ban on corporate contributions, Congress has tried to cut the ties between special interest money and politics. This impulse comes in fits and starts, rallying after scandals like Teapot Dome or Watergate, but often dying at the hands of lawmakers reliant on a system that keeps them in office. And, regularly, the whole struggle devolves into a tale of unintended consequences. 
A new chapter opens tomorrow, for the Senate is due to begin its first sustained debate on overhauling campaign finance rules since 1993 -- spurred by Mr. McCain's zeal and increased political clout.
When Congress has succeeded in revising campaign law, it has often worked well for a time. After Congress approved a comprehensive system to regulate elections in 1974, after Watergate, the presidential elections of 1976, 1980 and 1984 were considered among the cleanest.
But like water, special interest money seeps back into politics. "There's no doubt that there's a strong propensity for money to find the unregulated outlet," said Frank J. Sorauf, an emeritus professor of political science at the University of Minnesota. "We have a whole industry in Washington devoted to figuring out how to divert the money: the campaign finance lawyers, the campaign finance accountants, as well as the party people," he said,
So Mr. McCain, the Arizona Republican who talks as if he were the spiritual heir of Theodore Roosevelt, charges on in his crusade to stop the national political parties from taking the large unregulated contributions known as "soft money." This reached a record of nearly $500 million in the 2000 election cycle. It is his single-minded devotion to the cause that is forcing the Senate to consider changing a system that many lawmakers may deplore but have become comfortable with. 
"Look," Mr. McCain said, "there has always been cycles of corruption in government throughout American history." Even if he succeeded in passing his legislation, he mused, "20 to 30 years from now, they'd say, 'Hey, we've got to clean up the system again.' "
Yet, for all Mr. McCain's determination, the effort to purify politics in the last quarter-century often reads like a tragicomic tale because of the strange interaction of Congress, the courts and the regulatory agency that oversees the law.
The last time Congress succeeded in passing broad campaign finance rules was 1974, in the wake of the Watergate scandal and revelations about Richard M. Nixon's illicit fund-raising. Responding to public disgust, Congress enacted the most comprehensive campaign regulatory system in the nation's history.
It was an elaborate set of checks and balances. To stop wealthy interests from buying access, the law set limits on contributions. To restrain the pressure to raise money, it set limits on candidates' spending. There was partial public financing for presidential elections. And the Federal Election Commission was created. 
But two years later, the Supreme Court struck down the spending limits as an unconstitutional infringement of free speech, unless they were tied to public financing and candidates voluntarily opted for the public funds.
Since public financing only applied to presidential races, Congressional candidates suddenly found themselves in a relentless money chase. Spending was unrestrained, but contributions by individuals to federal candidates were limited to $1,000 per election. The imbalance pushed lawmakers to expand donor bases. 
THE pressure for money, along with an F.E.C. ruling, also led to the proliferation of political action committees, formed by corporations, labor and ideological interests. PAC's were allowed to give more to candidates than individuals were. So their contributions became more valuable.
Indeed, the explosion in giving through PAC's was so large during the 1980's that attempts to change the campaign law focused on reining in PAC spending. (The attempts failed.) "PAC's were the first great negative icon of campaign finance," Mr. Sorauf said.
Or at least until the advent of soft money.
In 1978, the Federal Election Commission gave the Kansas Republican Party the go-ahead to use corporate and union funds, which were legal under state but not federal law, for a get-out-the-vote drive that would help both state and federal candidates. Congress could have intervened to overturn the ruling, but did not.
So in the 1988 presidential race, big donors were back, exploiting this loophole to give unregulated sums, which were labeled soft money. Both the Democratic candidate, Michael J. Dukakis, and his opponent, George Bush, benefited from donor clubs of $100,000 contributors set up by the two major parties. That year, the two parties raised $45 million in soft money.
Eight years later, President Bill Clinton carried soft money fund-raising to new, unseemly heights. He held White House kaffeeklatsches with $50,000 and $100,000 donors. He rewarded fund-raisers with overnight stays in the Lincoln bedroom. In the end, the Democratic National Committee had to return $3 million in questionable donations, much of it from foreigners.
In 1995 Mr. Clinton also helped lead the way to a new, aggressive use of soft money -- party issue advertising that helped him build a formidable early lead in the 1996 presidential election. His lawyers argued that the Democrats' use of at least $32 million for such early ads did not break the campaign finance law because the ads stopped short of saying, "Vote for Clinton."
In 1996, Bob Dole followed suit, and began relying on the Republican Party to broadcast issue ads -- more than $20 million worth.
Now, after years of seeing his effort die in Republican-led filibusters, Mr. McCain and his Democratic co-sponsor, Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin, are trying to push a ban on soft money through the Senate in a marathon debate where votes on amendments are due every three hours.
He will be competing against other proposals that are less absolute. Senator Chuck Hagel, a Nebraska Republican, would cap soft money. President Bush would ban such donations from unions and corporations, but not individuals. And some senators want to raise contribution limits, arguing the problem is that limits were never adjusted for inflation.
WHETHER any measure will pass is a question no one in the Senate seems prepared to answer. Even some Democrats, who once deplored soft money, have become accustomed to it. In fact, Senate Democrats have surpassed Republicans in such fund-raising. The Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee raised $50 million in soft money during the last election cycle, compared with $41 million brought in by the Republicans.
And if Mr. McCain fails this time? "We are really reaching a point where we have to start rethinking what this system is going to be," said Anthony Corrado, a professor of government at Colby College in Maine. "We've let this structure go untended so long that we're getting to the point where to fix it will be more costly than just letting it collapse and starting over again."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John McCain, co-sponsor of the campaign finance bill due to be debated in the Senate tomorrow. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTION LAW (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HISTORY (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); CORRUPTION (67%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); APPROVALS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (US) 

PERSON: TOM DAVIS (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%) MITCHELL, ALISON; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



483 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: A Faster, Fairer, Smaller Tax Cut 

 BODY:
Even as the Bush administration still celebrates the House's passage of the core of its tax-cut plan, it is increasingly apparent that the country needs an alternative to President Bush's proposed 10-year, $1.6 trillion cut -- one that is fairer, more prudent and more likely to stimulate the economy.
 Crafting such a tax cut would not be difficult. Its conceptual framework was laid out last Monday by Robert Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, Paul Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, and the bipartisan Concord Coalition. "A back-loaded 10-year tax cut is not the right tool to provide short-term economic stimulus," they said in a joint statement. They are advocating instead a tax cut that is smaller over all, but that reduces more people's taxes by a greater amount in the near future. 
 To be sure, the Federal Reserve's monetary policy is still the most potent means of pumping the economy with immediate impact. But there will clearly be a tax cut of some magnitude passed this year, and there is a case to be made for engineering it in a manner that stimulates the economy by bolstering Americans' confidence in their financial well-being. As large as it is, the Bush tax cut would accomplish little on this score. Out of the $1.6 trillion, only $5.5 billion in reductions would flow to taxpayers this year, with the greatest effect just starting to be felt after six years. The White House and Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill are now encouraging Congress to find ways to accelerate the cuts without altering their overall price tag. 
But more than mere tinkering is in order. Mr. Bush's plan does not offer any relief for payroll taxes, the most direct route for helping most consumers. Some 80 percent of Americans pay more in payroll than income tax, so it would seem a starting point if tax relief is meant to address a drop in consumer confidence.
The president, to be fair, never set out to design a stimulus package. He fashioned his tax plan on the campaign trail in late 1999 and early 2000, when the economy was growing at a robust 5 percent annual rate, the Nasdaq was closing in on 5,000, and people were feeling rather exuberant about the "new economy." Against this sunny backdrop, the Bush campaign sought to give the wealthiest Americans a huge windfall over the next decade. There was no particular urgency. The goal was simply to maximize cuts in the long run, with phased-in decreases in marginal income-tax rates, the elimination of the estate tax and other cuts. 
The wealthy pay more in taxes, we were told, and must therefore benefit disproportionately from any meaningful cut. We disagreed with this regressive approach and argued that the tax reductions were too large in light of competing spending priorities and the uncertainty of projected surpluses. Others worried about the effects of a huge tax cut on an overheated economy.
How times have changed. Now we have an economy that could be on the verge of a recession, the Nasdaq at 2,000 and consumer confidence in a tailspin. The president's same tax cut, oddly enough, is now being sold not as an affordable luxury, but as an urgently needed stimulus. The trouble is, its new label cannot hide the fact that this tax cut was not designed to spur consumer spending in the short term. 
The danger now is that conservative Republicans, having discovered the Bush tax proposal's deficiencies as a stimulus in the near term, may simply add another layer of cuts onto what is already an unaffordable scheme. The White House will face increasing pressure from the right to slash capital gains and corporate taxes, pressure from the left to address the payroll-tax issue, and a universal clamor for a more front-loaded approach. The unwieldy structure that could emerge -- a tax cut for all seasons and for every reason -- might carry a price tag closing in on the $3 trillion mark. Such recklessness would hasten the return of budget deficits, jeopardize the long-term solvency of the Medicare and Social Security programs, cramp the ability to spend on other needed programs and slow economic growth by driving up interest rates.
The best answer is for a bipartisan group of senators to draft from scratch a tax-cut plan that is smaller, fairer and more targeted at lower- and middle-class spenders. Olympia Snowe, Republican of Maine, and John Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, are reportedly seeking to do just that. Somebody needs to step in and revise the Bush plan now that times have changed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX RELIEF (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ESTATE TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); CORPORATE TAX (70%) TAXATION; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: CONCORD COALITION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); RUBIN, ROBERT (SEC); VOLCKER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



484 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: Drill, Say Alaskans, Who Know Their Pockets Are Lined With Oil 

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, March 15 

 BODY:
Last fall, every man, woman and child in Alaska received a $1,963.86 check from the state -- the annual dividend paid from the royalties the state receives for the huge oil operations in the vast North Slope fields along the Arctic Ocean. There is no income tax here, no state sales tax, again courtesy of the oil revenues, which financed 84 percent of the state budget last year. 
 But for Alaskans who benefit from this optimistically named Permanent Fund of oil money, there is a troubling statistic: oil is coursing down the Trans-Alaska Pipeline at just half the peak rate of the 1980's of two million barrels a day, the State Division of Oil and Gas says. 
 All of which goes a long way toward explaining why here in Alaska, there is strong support, in some quarters ferocious, for President Bush's plan to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling, which could extend the financial bonanza another decade or two. 
And behind that support is another uncomfortable reality. As much as Alaskans like to cultivate their rugged, self-reliant image, many need financial help to get along here, and they get it: from oil money and from the federal government, which gives more money per capita to Alaska than to any other state, according to census figures. It still takes a very hardy breed to live in the bush or ride out a dark Alaska winter, but in some ways, the last frontier is the last great welfare state. 
Support for drilling in the Arctic refuge is not universal here. Some describe the dependence on oil money as a "dead end" and say the real future ought to lie in tourism, which has boomed in recent years to an industry generating more than $1 billion, surpassing logging and vying with fishing as the No. 2 source of jobs and income. And others say the state would reap eternal shame by despoiling the Arctic refuge.
"We shouldn't sell our soul," said Charlotte Phelps, a counselor for crime victims here in Anchorage. 
But oil and gas remain king, contributing about $8 billion to the state's economy in 2000. And the Permanent Fund ended the fiscal year at a record $28 billion, producing the largest dividend for Alaskans in state history and preserving an old joke here that Alaska is "Saudi Arabia, without the heat." 
Thus, many here say, Alaska must find a way to keep the oil flowing. The refuge, which federal geologists estimate has 3 billion to 16 billion barrels of oil beneath its tundra, seems to many to be the best bet. 
"If the oil keeps decreasing, it'd be a real disaster for this state," said Mark Dawson, a project manager for a construction company here. "We just don't have a whole lot else to fall back on." 
While some national polls have found that a majority of Americans are opposed to drilling in the refuge, polls in Alaska have generally shown strong support for the president's plan, and the state legislature once voted 59 to 1 in favor of a resolution urging that course. Congress will have the final say.
On Monday, engaging in a bit of belt-tightening, the State Senate Finance Committee slashed in half the money allocated by the House to pay nurses at the state's Pioneers nursing homes, but it ratcheted up spending for the private group that is lobbying to open drilling in the refuge, offering the group $1.5 million "for education efforts to open coastal plain," the prime area for oil in the refuge, and an additional $250,000 "for educational media efforts for targeted Congressional districts." 
For good measure, the committee even added $100,000 to help an Eskimo village, Kaktovik, which lies along the Arctic Ocean in the refuge and whose leaders generally support drilling for oil as an economic boon to their area, deal with an onslaught of media interest generated by the Congressional debate over the issue. 
"Camera crews are dropping in out of the blue to interview people who are totally confused by it all," Mayor Lon Sonsalla of Kaktovik wrote to State Senator Donny Olson, Democrat of Nome. "The result could be disastrous." 
In any event, the drilling debate is a huge topic of news here. Alaska is so deeply dependent on oil that a historian at the University of Alaska at Anchorage, Prof. Stephen Haycox, goes so far as to say the state operates as a sort of "colonial economy." 
"We don't produce much of anything we use here, other than oil," Professor Haycox said.
And that of course makes the state deeply vulnerable in an oil bust, which occurred when the price fell from about $40 a barrel at the beginning of the 1980's to $9 by 1986. 
Nine out of 15 banks based in Alaska failed then, and some 30,000 residents among the Anchorage area's 200,000 left, said Professor Haycox, author of "Alaska -- An American Colony: A New History," which will be published this year by the University of Washington Press. 
In recent years, oil prices have been relatively strong, and in at least one sense the economy is probably more diversified. The Permanent Fund is actually invested in a huge range of stocks, mutual funds and real estate projects around the nation, with the annual earnings paid out as dividends to anyone who has lived in Alaska for at least a year. 
But paradoxical as it sounds, the state is facing something of a budget crisis in spite of having this huge fund. As direct oil revenues dwindle, many state leaders say, Alaska will not be able to meet its obligations without considering either an income tax or a sales tax -- or somehow dipping into the Permanent Fund to stave off those alternatives. 
Nobody has been able to sell voters on any of those ideas. A year and a half ago, more than 80 percent of Alaskans voting in a special statewide advisory election opposed a proposal to divert some of the fund to pay for state government operations. 
"Politically, it's just very difficult to suggest using the earnings from the Permanent Fund for anything other than the dividends," said Prof. Scott Goldsmith of the Institute of Social and Economic Research at the University of Alaska here.
Alaska may yet continue for a while to live off its resources by tapping huge natural gas reserves or drilling for new oil in the refuge or elsewhere. But the big question is whether anything can ever begin to approach fuel as a mainstay of the Alaskan economy. 
"People have been debating that in Alaska for years, and no one's ever solved it yet," Marianne Rostron, a retired accountant born and reared in Alaska, said the other day as she did errands in downtown Anchorage. 
Dick Ward, a real estate broker here, scoffed at the notion that anything could ever replace oil and gas as an economic engine.
"Sure, of course it would be a hell of a lot better if we were diversified, but that's just not very realistic," said Mr. Ward, who, like many here, said he had spent time working "up north" in the oil fields near Prudhoe Bay. "We're too far away from everybody else. Even if we got a real manufacturing industry going, the shipping costs would be enormous." 
Tourism has been growing as visitors flock to see Alaska's spectacularly wild scenery, from the glaciers along the Inside Passage to the mountains of the Alaska Range, but it brings in just a fraction of the money brought in by oil. 
There is another source of income here: federal spending. Alaska edged out Virginia and Maryland as the state with the highest per capita federal spending, at $8,521, according to a Census survey last year. Professor Haycox said that federal spending, including money for military bases here, accounted for roughly one-third of the economy. 
In some ways, Alaska's high ranking is perfectly understandable. The cost of living is higher here than almost anywhere else in the nation, in part because the state is so vast, and providing basic services like health care and transportation can prove to be extremely complicated. 
But Alaska has also long drawn attention in Washington for the remarkable influence of its tiny Congressional delegation. Its three members -- Senator Ted Stevens; Senator Frank H. Murkowski, chairman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee and prime advocate of drilling in the refuge; and Representative Don Young, all Republicans -- have a combined total of more than 80 years of federal legislative experience. 
Mr. Stevens, the senior senator and chairman of the powerful Appropriations Committee, is particularly noteworthy in this regard. He is so adept at getting money for his state that the federal dollars directed here are often referred to by Alaskans simply as "Stevens money." 
The term was coined years ago as something of a joke, but it has since become a routine part of discourse, as in this editorial in The Anchorage Daily News last summer: "The dividend amount has become a little like Ted Stevens money, an economic force all its own and something we'd just as soon keep in the family." 
Mr. Stevens and his fellow Alaska politicians came under attack just this last week by Citizens Against Government Waste, which issued a report saying that Alaska led the nation in "pork-barrel spending." It came up with a tally of $766 a person in what it considered to be questionable financing, or 30 times the national average, and cited as one example a $176,000 grant to the Alaska Reindeer Herders Association. 
"I'm sure Santa Claus will be pleased with that," said Senator John McCain of Arizona, who attended the group's news conference, criticizing the appropriations process. 
But the 77-year-old Mr. Stevens, after whom the international airport in Anchorage is now named, said Alaskans were only receiving their "fair share of federal spending," and he took to the Senate floor on Wednesday to express particular umbrage at the group's criticism of a program to install runway lights on airstrips in some remote Alaskan villages. Such lights, he said, can be a matter of life and death, enabling a plane to land for someone who requires a medical evacuation. 
"I not only am proud that the Senate acceded to my request for runway lights in last year's appropriations bills," said the senator, who survived a 1978 airplane crash in Alaska that killed his first wife, Ann, and four other people. "I want to put the Senate on notice that this year I am going to seek funds so that every village in Alaska has runway lights."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Oil courses through the zigzagging Trans-Alaska Pipeline at a rate of a million barrels a day, half the peak rate it reached in the 1980's. (Michael Dinneen for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROYALTIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); SALES TAX (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); WILDLIFE (72%); CENSUS (68%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (60%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; TRANS-ALASKA PIPELINE SYSTEM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (76%) VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%) ALASKA, USA (99%); ARCTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); ARCTIC (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE; ALASKA; NORTH SLOPE (ALASKA)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



485 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-11

Army Colonel's Trial Tests Russian Justice
The murder trial of a Russian Army colonel accused of killing a Chechen woman last year will resume on Tuesday. No one disputes that the murder took place; whether or not Colonel Budanov did anything worth punishing is the question. Democrats wonder whether a nation blind to Stalin's mass slaughter can stubbornly continue to see no evil in Chechnya, while nationalists see a plot by foreigners to impose their moral code. 1

Emerging From the Arctic Circle
The Samis, an ancient people who form an ethnic minority in Norway, Sweden and Finland, have inaugurated a parliament that Norway has set up to indicate their right to cultural protection and their status as an ethnic minority. 3

Fierce Fighting in Macedonia
Macedonian forces pounded the hillsides outside Tetovo, the country's second-largest city, and fortified their positions against ethnic Albanian rebels who call themselves the National Liberation Army and say they are fighting for greater rights and recognition. 4

Concern in Turkey
As Turkey's economy stumbles, some fear that the government's progressive faction will face a much harder task in its push for integration with the West. 4

Calling for an End to Torture
Acknowledging for the first time that the practice exists in his country, Mexico's new president, Vicente Fox, has called for an end to the use of torture by police and soldiers to obtain confessions. 10

NATIONAL 12-31

Despite Better Technology, Food Poisoning Persists
Because of changing eating habits and more choices of foods, Americans may be more likely to get sick from what they eat today than they were half a century ago. 1

Alaska's Oil-Fueled Dividend
In Alaska, there is strong support for President Bush's plan to open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling, which could help extend the Permanent Fund, an oil-fueled dividend that last fall provided every man, woman and child in the state with a check for $1,963.86. 14

The Republicans' newfound power over the environmental groups will be tested in coming months as Congress grapples with the question of drilling in the Arctic refuge. 14

Legacy of the Bull Market
The bull stock market may be fading, but it has made big changes in the way Americans live and the financial risks they are willing to take. 1

Job Fair, Minus the Jobs
College students enjoying spring break on a Texas beach felt the chill of the economy at a career exposition with little to offer. 12

School Shooting, No Coverage
There was a shooting this month at Hoover High, a mostly minority inner-city school in San Diego. It did not make the national news, and students say they are glad. 12

Bill Planned on Church Aid
Members of Congress plan to introduce legislation supporting President Bush's proposal to expand financing for religious charities. 20

NEW YORK/REGION 33-41

Elected Officials Do Not Reflect Region's Growing Diversity
Despite census figures showing that the population throughout New York City's suburbs is growing increasingly diverse, that diversity is seldom reflected in village or town councils or county legislatures. On Long Island, one in 10 people is Hispanic, but Latinos remain almost invisible in local and county government. 33

2 Finalists for City College Post
A search committee for the next president of the City College of New York has narrowed its search to two law school deans, Dr. Gregory H. Williams, the law school dean at Ohio State University, and Robert J. Reinstein, a vice president and law school dean at Temple University. 35

End Near for Fresh Kills Dump
Sometime over the next week or so, the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island will close. 1

OBITUARIES 42-43

The Great Alzana
The high-wire artist ballyhooed as "The Most Daredevilish Human Ever to Skirt Eternity's Brink" was 82. His tricks were so dangerous that in 1953 New York State passed a law to keep him from working without a net. 43

Chess 42
Weather 38
Cong. Vote 41

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); MURDER (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (85%); HOMICIDE (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TORTURE (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); ETHNICITY (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); WILDLIFE (74%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (69%); OIL EXTRACTION (68%); CITY LIFE (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%) CORRECTION STORIES; THEATER 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORWAY (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); TURKEY (92%); ARCTIC (88%); SWEDEN (79%); ALBANIA (79%); FINLAND (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



486 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: L.I.@WORK 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Warren Strugatch; E-mail: libiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Comverse Technology Reports Record Results
 Comverse Technology Inc. (Nasdaq: CMVT) of Woodbury has reported that its net income for the fourth quarter soared 48 percent to a record $76.9 million, up from $51.9 million for the quarter last year. The company posted record sales of $346.6 million for the quarter, up 37 percent over the same quarter in fiscal 1999. 
 Comverse paid dividends of 41 cents a share for the quarter, up from 30 cents a share in 1999. For the year, net income rose 51 percent to $264 million, and sales rose 35 percent.
Kobi Alexander, the chairman and chief executive, said, "Our fourth-quarter results reflect our leadership position in major markets."
Comverse, which has about 250 employees, makes message systems for wireless telecommunications networks.

Around the Island
John Gallagher, the chief executive of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, will step down Dec. 31 to become a co-chairman of the health system's foundation. Mr. Gallagher helped engineer the 1997 merger of the Long Island Jewish Medical Center and the North Shore Health System. His successor has not yet been named. . . . General Semiconductor Inc. (NYSE: SEM) of Melville said Tuesday that first-quarter revenues for 2001 would fall at least 14 percent below the $120 million reported in the previous quarter. Robert J. Gange, the chief financial officer, blamed general economic conditions. . . . The DHB Capital Group (OTC: DHBT) of Carle Place has reported that sales doubled to $70 million in 2000, up from $35 million in 1999. Operating income was $8.2 million, compared with a loss of $21 million in 1999. Through subsidiaries, DHB Capital manufactures armor and other protective gear for military, law enforcement and sports uses. . . . While denying any wrongdoing, the Twinlab Corporation (Nasdaq: TWLB), a maker of vitamins and nutritional supplements in Hauppauge, has agreed to a $26 million settlement to end a series of shareholder lawsuits. The agreement is subject to court approval. . . . In Garden City, Joe Mohen, a founder of Election.com, which adopts new technology for vote processing, is stepping down as chief executive. Mike Joyce, the chairman of Wiznet, an Internet company in Delray Beach, Fla., will take over day-to-day operations. Mr. Mohen will remain active as vice chairman. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COMPUTER MAKERS (69%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (68%); APPROVALS (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (67%); LITIGATION (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); PHARMACEUTICALS & MEDICINES MFG (63%); VITAMIN SUPPLEMENTS (62%); NUTRITION (62%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (62%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

COMPANY: VERINT SYSTEMS INC (94%); TWINLAB CORP (81%); GENERAL SEMICONDUCTOR INC (68%); SELECT MEDICAL HOLDINGS CORP (55%); POINT BLANK SOLUTIONS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH SHORE-LONG ISLAND JEWISH HEALTH SYSTEM 

TICKER: VRNT (NASDAQ) (94%); SEM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (81%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (55%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (55%); NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2389 APPAREL & ACCESSORIES, NEC (54%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; SIC3842 SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES; SIC6719 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: GALLAGHER, JOHN; STRUGATCH, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2001 



487 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: To Protect Privacy On the Internet 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Age of Consent," by William Safire (column, March 12):
 Millions of consumers who believe in personal freedom also want the speed and convenience of the New Economy; they need not choose one or the other. 
 Mr. Safire says I am "going along with the info industry's 'opt out' deception," which would require buyers to advise sellers how they want information about their buying habits used to market to them as consumers. In fact, like him, I want the strongest protections for Internet privacy.
Rather than prescribe every detail of what businesses must do to protect Internet privacy, government should set tough standards and allow businesses the flexibility to meet these goals. We can protect privacy without shutting down the industry's potential for growth or choking the free flow of information. That's what Senator John McCain and I are trying to do with our legislation.

JOHN F. KERRY
U.S. Senator from Massachusetts
Washington, March 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNET PRIVACY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (88%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (65%); JOHN KERRY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



488 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Compressed Data; 
Shoulders Shrugged Over Dot-Com Woes

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
For many Americans, watching Internet companies trip and fall is more an entertainment rather than a cause for pain or sorrow. That is the conclusion of a quick poll taken in February by the Pew Research Center for People and the Press. 
 Despite all the news coverage of dot-com problems, of the 2,096 people surveyed by Pew, only 30 percent of respondents said they had heard a lot about Internet companies, while 37 percent said they heard at least a little. And few had much direct experience with the dot-com meltdown. 
 Only 7 percent said they had lost money investing in dot-coms, while only 9 percent said they personally knew someone laid off from an Internet company.
And of the 57 percent of the people surveyed who said they had access to the Internet, only 8 percent said that one of their favorite Web sites had gone out of business. 
Among those who had heard of the dot-com problems, 57 percent agreed with this statement: "Having some Internet companies close is a good thing, because there are too many Web sites that had too little to offer." Only 28 percent agreed with the only other choice presented: "Having some Internet companies close is a bad thing because there will be fewer sites and services to choose from."
And while 87 percent of the respondents said the problems of Internet companies would have some impact on the economy, only 26 percent said they expected a major impact.
The Pew survey also asked respondents to react to three, perhaps cynical, explanations for the dot-com collapse. Most popular was the "day traders made me do it" excuse. Sixty-seven percent selected "Internet investors are eager to make a profit and took too many risks" as a "major reason" for the Internet companies' problems.
With people allowed to pick more than one explanation, 56 percent agreed that "Many Internet companies did not have a clear plan for how they would make money." And 39 percent went along with "The owners of many Internet companies are young and inexperienced." This theory was most popular with those older than 50. SAUL HANSELL

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Perceptions of the Internet Shakeout"Of Americans surveyed who said they were aware of the dot-com downturn, here is how they rank the causes. Risk-taking investors looking for fast moneyA MAJOR REASON: 67%A MINOR REASON: 21%NOT A REASON: 5% Poor business plansA MAJOR REASON: 56%A MINOR REASON: 27%NOT A REASON: 9% Youthful and inexperienced managementA MAJOR REASON: 39%A MINOR REASON: 38%NOT A REASON: 15%(Source: Pew Internet and American Life Project survey of 2,096 adults in February)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); LAYOFFS (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (69%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PUBLIC OPINION; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

ORGANIZATION: PEW RESEARCH CENTER FOR PEOPLE AND THE PRESS 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



489 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Finally, some self-service sites are providing detailed answers when customers ask precise questions.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
WHEN they were not promoting the now-laughable myth of "first mover advantage," early e-commerce proponents proffered the idea that self-service Web sites could essentially run themselves, with little or no overhead.
 That notion has long since given way to huge technology budgets, sprawling fulfillment operations and legions of customer service representatives typing e-mail replies to patrons of Web sites or talking them through transactions by phone. 
 But now, as many of the first movers circle the drain, improvements in customer service technology are helping survivors come much closer to the early self-service ideal. For instance, Internet executives and analysts cite the growing efficiency and popularity of technologies that help Web sites compile large storehouses of frequently asked questions and their answers. 
Those technologies take sites beyond the static and frequently useless FAQ pages, allowing customers to type in precise questions and get detailed responses without having to wait for live help.
Beyond the obvious benefit of helping customers find answers to their questions without hitting the "help" button or typing key words into a search box, these technologies can help create much more user-friendly sites, so customers do not have problems in the first place, executives and analysts said.
"Demand for this is definitely picking up," said Paul Hagen, an analyst with Forrester Research, the Internet consulting firm. "A year ago, it wasn't even on people's radar screen. But it is now, because companies are past the 'I've got to get the site up and running' phase, and they're thinking about how to do it well."
The technologies used in this regard have yet to find a name that easily escapes the lips. Mr. Hagen's own label is "self-service knowledge database," but the phrases "natural language search" and "searchable database" are also used interchangeably to describe this category.
Whatever the name, the company that is most frequently associated with the technology is Ask Jeeves (www.ask.com), which pioneered Internet search technology in which people type full questions instead of key words. The company's site is well known among Internet search users. But Ask Jeeves also provides service and consulting to other Web sites, like Dell.com and Nike.com, whose users can turn to Ask Jeeves for information specific to those sites. 
So just as visitors to the Ask Jeeves site can type a question like "Where can I buy Nike golf balls?" and get a range of stores in the search results, visitors to Nike.com can ask the same question and be directed to the NikeGolf.com site.
Ask Jeeves, which is based in Emeryville, Calif., compiles a list of 80 to several hundred questions for each of its Web site customers, taking into account the variables of spelling, grammar and word usage that may arise from each question. And notably, if users consistently ask questions that suggest the site's design or content is lacking, Ask Jeeves flags such problems for the Web site.
The technology carries an annual price tag of $100,000 to "seven figures," depending on the features and the customization sought by the client, said Claudio Pinkus, president for Ask Jeeves's business solutions unit. 
Even at the low end, the price is higher than that of some of the 60 or so competitors, said Mr. Hagen, the Forrester analyst. One of those companies is AskIt.com, which began operating in late 1999.
AskIt's technology is slightly different from that of Ask Jeeves. When an AskIt customer poses a question, the user receives either an answer or a series of similar questions -- and their answers -- rather than links to other portions of a site. 
To create a database of questions and answers for a particular site, AskIt first builds a list of answers to common questions, and places a button titled Ask a Question or Frequently Asked Questions in the customer service area of the site.
If a user asks a question that has not been submitted before, the Web site's customer service representatives e-mail a response, then file it in the database. David Gusick, AskIt's chief executive, says it takes about two months, depending on the site's volume, to build a database of answers for 80 percent of a site's customer questions.
AskIt says it has more than a hundred clients, each of whom pays between $750 and several thousand dollars a month for the service, after a set-up fee of $2,000 to $5,000.
RitzCamera.com, the Internet division of the retail chain, has been using AskIt's system since late last year. Vance Brown, RitzCamera.com's chief customer officer, said the AskIt technology saved the company roughly $37,000 a month in customer service inquiries, based on the 5,000 questions the AskIt system handles. (It costs $7.50 to $8 each time a customer service representative answers a question by phone or e-mail, he said.)
Besides reducing customer service costs, the system has helped improve customer satisfaction, Mr. Brown said. RitzCamera.com employees sifted through the queries logged by AskIt, and realized that the checkout process was too complicated. So the company reduced the number of pages required to complete a transaction to three from six, he said, "and immediately those types of inquiries ceased."
Mr. Hagen, of Forrester, said such an anticipatory approach to customer service was beyond the sophistication of most Web executives. "Companies aren't taking that extra step to understand where they've failed," he said. "For too many of them," those services "hang off like appendages."
Improvements in the technology will help address this, Mr. Hagen said, as companies like Ask Jeeves, Kanisa and others provide the software that will report possible problems, without Web site executives' having to look for them.
But for sites that have the personnel to dig for the problems themselves, such higher-price software sometimes does not make sense. Take Hilton Hotels. Bruce Rosenberg, senior vice president for e-business at Hilton, said the company planned to roll out technology from a vendor called Broad Daylight within 45 days. The system is supposed to enable Web site visitors to ask questions and get answers.
The technology works like that of AskIt, and costs a minimum of $60,000 per year, according to Broad Daylight's chief executive, Louise Kirkbride.
Mr. Rosenberg said that he expected to save money on calls to Hilton's customer service lines, but that he was just as interested in giving users an easier way to navigate the "tens of thousands" of pages on the site in a way that called to mind the hotel's concierge service. The so-called natural language query feature, he said, helps achieve that goal.
Hilton will analyze the questions logged to the system as a way to determine shortcomings on the site, Mr. Rosenberg said. But he decided against using more expensive software to automate that job. "We're spending millions building our site, so we've really got to watch the money," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Staff members at AskIt.com: Raymond Blum, chief technical officer, left; Eric Goldberg, senior vice president; and Karla Blackman, client service engineer, right. AskIt starts building a Web site for a client by creating a list of answers to common questions. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CUSTOMER SERVICE (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (87%); WEB SITES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ORDER FULFILLMENT (73%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); RETAILERS (60%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); NIKE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ASK JEEVES INC 

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); NKE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (51%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (51%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (51%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (51%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



490 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
As the ethnic population swells, agencies make moves to reach the faster-growing groups.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
THE implications of the increase in minority populations, as underscored by census data released last week, are being reflected on Madison Avenue. A big agency is making a major investment in the Hispanic advertising market, and a small specialist in the Asian-American advertising market is reorganizing to encourage growth.
 Such appeals to segments of the general consumer market are likely to intensify, not only because of the 2000 census but because of the 2001 economy. During tough times, it could be a shrewd strategy to concentrate suddenly scarcer marketing dollars on faster-growing groups rather than the moribund majority. 
 The investment involves Publicis in the United States, the American division of the Publicis Groupe. It is forming Publicis Sanchez & Levitan -- which will handle advertising aimed at Hispanic consumers -- by acquiring two of the four offices of Siboney in Miami along with a 49 percent stake in Sanchez & Levitan, also in Miami.
The reorganization involves Admerasia in New York, which is becoming an agency company named New A offering advertising along with marketing, interactive and translation services aimed at Asian-American consumers as well as so-called emerging ethnic audiences like Indians, Pakistanis, Poles and Russians.
"The 1980 census showed the trend toward multiculturalism, the 1990 census confirmed it and the 2000 census proved it was a phenomenon," said J. Melvin Muse, chief executive at Muse Creative Holdings, an agency company specializing in multicultural marketing, which recently moved its headquarters to New York from Los Angeles.
"What we're saying to clients and prospects," he added, "is you'd better start shifting how you talk to people."
Publicis Sanchez & Levitan will have about 100 employees handling accounts with billings estimated at more than $80 million from marketers like BellSouth, Coca-Cola and Nestle. The formation of the agency, which will take over the Siboney offices in Dallas and Los Angeles, represents a doubling of a bet by the Publicis Groupe on the importance of the Spanish-speaking consumer.
That's because the Saatchi & Saatchi division of the Publicis Groupe owns an Hispanic agency, Conill Advertising in New York, which will now compete against Publicis Sanchez in the same manner that Saatchi competes against Publicis in the United States.
"Ethnic communication will grow in the U.S.," said Maurice Levy, chief executive of the Publicis Groupe in Paris, because "communication has to speak to the inner person, not only to the mind but to the heart and soul."
The Publicis Groupe, which also owns 49 percent of an agency specializing in ads aimed at black consumers, the Burrell Communications Group in Chicago, "obviously will have to look at the Asian market" as well, he added, "because it, too, is a growing market."
Aida Levitan, 48, chief executive at Sanchez & Levitan, will be chairwoman and chief executive of Publicis Sanchez & Levitan, and Fausto Sanchez, 47, president and chief creative officer at Sanchez & Levitan, will add chairman to those titles at Publicis Sanchez & Levitan. He and Ms. Levitan worked together on some projects with Robert H. Bloom, chairman and chief executive of Publicis in the United States in New York, before making the deal with him and Mr. Levy.
"This is a pretty wonderful opportunity," Ms. Levitan said. "It provides us with a strategic alliance and a quick conversion of our agency into a national agency, with offices in the top three Hispanic states: California, Texas and Florida."
Mr. Sanchez said the Publicis Sanchez & Levitan office in Miami could serve as "a hub for Publicis as it seeks new business in the Caribbean and Latin America."
Siboney, in which True North Communications in Chicago owns a 40 percent stake, will continue operating offices in Miami and New York after the two others become part of Publicis Sanchez & Levitan.
"Aida and Fausto are entrepreneurs who came from Cuba and built an agency from nothing," Mr. Bloom said. "They understand how to reach the growing Hispanic population with messages that are culturally and linguistically relevant, and at the same time they believe strongly in messages relevant to those in the general-market advertising, so there's no dissonance."
That desire for a complementary relationship between specialty and general advertising is also a goal of New A, which will have 100 employees at five divisions in offices in Los Angeles, New York and Toronto, handling accounts with billings estimated at $40 million for marketers like the E*Trade Group, MCI WorldCom and Metropolitan Life.
"We've been talking about the concept for some time," said Atsuko Watanabe, executive vice president and general manager of Admerasia, who becomes the chief operating officer of New A. She added that the census data "validates what we've been talking about" since the founding of Admerasia in 1993.
Zan Ng, 45, becomes chairman of New A after serving as chairman of Admerasia and two other units, Cyverasia and aLanguage Bank. Jeff Lin, 38, chief creative officer at Admerasia, becomes its chief executive. Jeanine Kim, 28, vice president and general manager for Admerasia's West Coast operation, becomes president at AAAZa, a spinoff of Admerasia offering advertising and online marketing services. The letters stand for "Asian American A to Z agency."
Also, Sidney Yee, 37, joins Cyverasia as president from Summit Bank in Princeton, N.J., where he had been vice president for information technology solutions. And Peiwin Shih, who had been a reporter for the Chinese Television Network in Hong Kong, becomes general manager at aLanguage Bank, which provides translation services.
How does that fit into marketing? Well, Mr. Ng explained, "if someone makes a phone call" to a toll-free number he or she saw in a commercial that ran in Korean, Mandarin or Russian, "who's going to answer?" The expectation: someone who speaks that language. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); CENSUS (93%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (92%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); TRENDS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (67%) ADVERTISING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL; ASIAN-AMERICANS; MINORITIES 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (97%); AQUANTIVE INC (58%); PUBLICIS SANCHEZ & LEVITAN (56%); NESTLE SA (53%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (53%); COCA-COLA CO (53%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (52%); BURRELL COMMUNICATIONS GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ADMERASIA; PUBLICIS SA; SIBONEY; SANCHEZ & LEVITAN; NEW A 

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (97%); NESN (SWX) (53%); KO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (97%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (97%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (97%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (97%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: MAURICE LEVY (57%) LEVITAN, AIDA; SANCHEZ, FAUSTO; ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (57%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



491 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Plunge in Stocks Colors Debate on Size of Rate Cut
The Federal Reserve's policy makers will meet tomorrow to decide how much to cut interest rates to revive the economy just when a falling stock market seems to have the power to bring on a recession.
 No one doubts that the Fed will reduce its benchmark rate. But the debate over how far the Fed should go -- thus influencing what lenders charge for mortgages, home equity loans and other credit -- reflects sharply different views of the stock market's effect on the economy. National Report, Section A. 

Several money managers said that after one of the worst weeks in the market's history, they were cautiously looking over the discounted merchandise. National Report, Section A.

Employee Rankings Lead to Suits
An increasingly popular technique for evaluating employees is prompting lawsuits that accuse three big companies -- Microsoft, Ford Motor and Conoco -- of bias. At issue is the ranking of employees from best to worst, or grading them on a bell curve, and then using that ranking to help determine pay and sometimes whether to fire someone. A1.

E-Books Spur Sales of Paper Ones
Jim Baen, who runs Baen Books, a small but established publisher of science fiction, would hardly seem an advocate of electronic publishing. He says derisively that he is "not sure it's legal to actually make money in e-publishing." But his company has made money in e-publishing, distributing electronic texts cheaply and even free in some cases. And in a striking puzzle, the more e-texts Baen Books makes available, the more it has been able to sell printed books. C11.

Stumbling Blocks to Hughes Deal
The chaos in the stock market and the growing friction between the head of Hughes Electronics and the management of General Motors is making it tougher for G.M. to sell Hughes, executives close to the discussions said. C2.

TNT and TBS to Drop Wrestling
The Turner Broadcasting System will stop showing professional wrestling on its TNT and TBS cable channels later this month. C6.

Makeover for Scientific American
Scientific American, the 155-year-old magazine for the amateur scientist, has undergone something of a face lift with the April issue, placing more emphasis on technology. C11.

Test of Parkinson's Therapy Fails
An experimental therapy for Parkinson's disease suffered its second setback in a month when Genzyme and Diacrin said that the treatment did not work in a clinical trial. C2.

Alternatives Sought for Broadband
Angel Technologies, a start-up led by Marc E. Arnold, plans to provide high-speed Internet access by using solar-powered, high-altitude manned aircraft. Mr. Arnold's plan is indicative of the restless energy gripping the industry, which is seeking alternatives to the most common ways to offer high-speed access -- namely, over cable networks or on digital subscriber lines. C4.

A Return to the Self-Service Notion
Early e-commerce proponents put forth the idea that self-service Web sites could essentially run themselves. That notion gave way to huge technology budgets and legions of customer service representatives. But improvements in technology are helping dot-com survivors come closer to the ideal of self-service. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C10.

After Napster, Challenges Await
As the dispute plays out between Napster, the song-swapping service, and the major music companies, the recording industry faces some daunting issues, from setting basic standards for online music to how to make money distributing music online. New Economy. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,823.41 down 821.21Nasdaq composite -- 1,890.91 down 161.8710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.76% down 0.18The euro -- $0.8958 down 0.0360The dollar -- 122.82 yen up 3.12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (87%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); RECESSION (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (72%); BOOK PUBLISHING (71%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (71%); DISMISSALS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (66%); CABLE TELEVISION (66%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (64%); WRESTLING (61%); BROADBAND (60%); CLINICAL TRIALS (60%); INTERNET & WWW (60%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (52%); GENZYME CORP (51%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



492 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: Big Media v. Freelancers: The Justices at the Digital Divide 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER and RALPH BLUMENTHAL 

 BODY:
For scholars, the electronic archives of contemporary journalism are a mother lode of history. For publishers and database owners, they are valuable intellectual property. But for a group of angry freelance writers, these archives are a legally dubious bazaar where their wares are peddled without their consent.
 So the writers sued publishing giants like The New York Times Company and Time Inc., arguing -- as actors, screenwriters and musicians have argued elsewhere -- that their work has been unfairly appropriated. 
 On March 28, after a seven-year fight that produced contradictory lower court decisions, the freelancers' case will be argued before the United States Supreme Court, opening the way for the court's first decision on the murky issue of who owns what on the digital frontier. 
The writers argue that they retain ownership of their work. But, they say, publishers are illegally making the work available to new, paying audiences through electronic database owners like Lexis-Nexis and companies like University Microfilms International, which put the archives on CD-ROM's. Seeking to share in the bounty, they cite the 18th-century lexicographer Samuel Johnson, who said, "No man but a blockhead ever wrote, except for money."
The publishers respond: You already have your money. We paid for the freelance work. The archive is only a revision of our original publications, just like microfilm. If the court says that publishers have no automatic right to put disputed work into an electronic archive, then we must consider deleting it. All of it -- opinion pieces, magazine articles, book reviews, anything that could provoke new lawsuits.
A sharp debate among historians and biographers has followed. Pulitzer Prize-winning historians like David McCullough, Doris Kearns Goodwin and David M. Kennedy are lining up with the publishers, while the writers have support from the Pulitzer Prize biographer Robert K. Massie and the science writer and biographer James Gleick.
Laurence H. Tribe, late of the Florida recount battle, will argue the publishers' case before the Supreme Court. Kenneth W. Starr, late of the special counsel's office, is the counsel of record for the National Geographic Society, which also sided with The Times, Time and Newsday. Along with Lexis-Nexis and University Microfilms, these three were the defendants in the original lawsuit. Lining up with the plaintiffs -- Jonathan Tasini, the president of the National Writers' Union, and five other freelancers -- are the United States Register of Copyrights and both the American Library Association and the Association of Research Libraries -- groups that have been grappling with the rising price of online periodicals.
The sides offer dueling visions of the dire consequences that await if their foes prevail. Bruce P. Keller, a lawyer for the publishers, said last week: "If they win, everyone will lose. The publishers will lose because they stand the risk of possible copyright liability judgments. The public will lose because the historical record will be incomplete, and the freelancers will lose because their articles will no longer be included" in electronic archives.
Mr. Tasini responds: "The issue we're facing is the same issue that actors are facing and screenwriters are facing. All of us are saying we deserve a fair share of revenue that these big media companies are making in the digital age. You want to use my work? You have to pay."
Mr. Gleick, in a separate interview, added: "I'm really sort of shocked and disappointed that any writers and historians can be on the other side. How can you get writers to say, 'Steal my work -- don't bother paying me please'?" 
The percentage of newspaper and magazine archives contributed by freelancers is not yet known, and it is unclear how much a defeat in this case could cost the publishers. Damages could be awarded in a later court proceeding, if the Supreme Court rules for the writers.
The case turns on the question of ownership. There is no question that the publishers bought the right to print the articles. Changes that Congress made in the copyright laws in 1976 to enhance the rights of freelancers made it clear that these writers still own their articles after publication, but that publishers could still include them in "revised" versions of the newspaper. Now, do electronic archives qualify as a "revision"?
The writers argue that the solution lies in a rights clearinghouse, akin to the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, which licenses performance rights for music owned by Ascap members. Mr. Tasini's group, the National Writers Union, established such a clearinghouse in 1994. The publishers' lawyers argue that this sort of clearinghouse can never protect against maverick freelancers who hope to make more money through lawsuits.
As Mr. Keller said, "It may be in the eyes of many freelancers that the potential reward is greater by suit." He added, "If that is true, the only way to reduce the right of infringement liability is to delete today in advance of the claim they may make tomorrow." 
Mr. Tasini responds, "Authors on their own are not going to sue people if there's another solution that's simpler and easier."
Leon Friedman, a professor of copyright law at Hofstra Law School, who filed a brief on behalf of the freelancers, scornfully calls the prospect of archival deletions "the parade of horribles." But the prospect of a historical record with holes in it was enough to bring the publishers some high-powered academic support. This brought out comparable support on the writers' side. Now, an array of award-winning writers, professors and historians are facing off across the Tasini divide.
The publishers and database operators enlisted, among others, Ken Burns, the documentary-film maker, and the authors Richard N. Goodwin and Gordon S. Wood. The freelancers have enlisted, in addition to Mr. Gleick and Mr. Massie, scholars and authors like Jacques Barzun, Tracy Kidder, Jack Miles and Jean Strouse. 
Mr. Gleick, an Internet entrepreneur and author who worked for The Times for 10 years as a reporter and editor and still contributes to the paper, said he doubted that the integrity of electronic archives would suffer if publishers had to pay freelancers for copyrights. "Where's the evidence this ever happened?" he asked. "It's a straw man." He added that the publishers' legal argument rested on a "contortionist's claim" that Nexis is an edition of The New York Times.
Those aligned with the freelancers argue in legal papers that there is "a vast difference between a single edition of a newspaper or magazine and the Nexis database, which incorporates material from so many different sources."
The writers are concerned about potential economic loss. Mr. Massie, a former president of the Author's Guild, called the publishers' position "another attempt to take from authors the little they make."
Arthur Sulzberger Jr., chairman of The New York Times Company, responded: "The Times has long believed and continues to believe that it fully compensates its journalists, both financially and otherwise. The advent of another form of distribution does not change that, any more than the introduction of the New York Times News Service many years ago changed it. The Times could not be the newspaper it is without the great writers it has had and continues to have to this day."
The legal brief filed by the authors who are aligned with the publishers warns of damage to scholarship if publishers, feeling legally vulnerable, excise bits of their archives. Such gaps, the brief argues, represent "a grave threat to the quality and completeness of historical scholarship."
Jack N. Rakove, a history professor at Stanford University who joined in that brief, said in an interview, "If, in fact, there is a serious chance that complications in getting authorial permission would lead to the dilution of future historical archives, it would be of serious concern."
But, he said, he was also a freelancer and did not want "to deny the legitimacy of their concerns." 
When the case was filed in December 1993, electronic archives had been in widespread use for at least a dozen years, but freelancers usually arranged assignments and fees with newspaper editors on an informal, oral basis. Since the lawsuit was filed, both Newsday and The Times have instituted a system of formal contracts for freelancers. These specify that the publishers have the rights necessary for electronic uses.
Time Inc. is a defendant in the suit thanks to an article in Sports Illustrated. The magazine's contract with the freelancer who later joined the infringement suit did not mention digital rights. Time Inc. contracts now do so.
In suing, the freelancers relied on the Copyright Act of 1976. The crucial language gives publishers who buy freelance work "only the privilege of reproducing and distributing the contribution as part of that particular collective work, any revision of that collective work, and any later collective work in the same series." Lexis-Nexis, the publishers argue, is just such a revision of a collective work.
In August 1997, Judge Sonia Sotomayor, of United States District Court in Manhattan, ruled for the publishers, saying "the electronic databases retain a significant creative element of the publisher defendants' collective works."
In September 1999, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned this decision, ruling: "Nexis is a database comprising thousands or millions of individually retrievable articles taken from hundreds or thousands of periodicals. It can hardly be deemed a 'revision' of each edition of each periodical that it maintains."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jonathan Tasini, the president of the National Writers Union, argues: "We deserve a fair share of revenue that these big media companies are making in the digital age. You want to use my work? You have to pay." (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times); Laurence H. Tribe, of Harvard Law School and the Florida recount, will argue the publishers' case before the Supreme Court. The dispute has enlisted thinkers and writers on both sides, several with Pulitzer Prizes. (Associated Press); The biographer Robert K. Massie saw "another attempt to take from authors the little they make." (Associated Press); The Pulitzer Prize historian Doris Kearns Goodwin is one of those lining up with the publishers. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (93%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); HISTORY (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (78%); COPYRIGHT (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); COPYRIGHT LAW (73%); LAWYERS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); GEOGRAPHY (62%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (56%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; SUITS AND LITIGATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COPYRIGHTS; CD-ROM (COMPACT DISC-READ ONLY MEMORY) 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (91%); LEXISNEXIS GROUP (84%); TIME INC (83%); NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (52%); AMERICAN LIBRARY ASSOCIATION (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK TIMES; SUPREME COURT (US); TIME INC; NEWSDAY; LEXIS-NEXIS; UNIVERSITY MICROFILMS INTERNATIONAL; NATIONAL WRITERS' UNION 

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (84%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (84%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%)

PERSON: ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (56%) BARRINGER, FELICITY; BLUMENTHAL, RALPH; TASINI, JONATHAN; SULZBERGER, ARTHUR JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



493 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Safety Net Helps Make Leaving the Welfare Rolls Permanent 

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: PITTSBURGH 

 BODY:
Joining a wary national throng, Nicole Carter ended welfare as she knew it three years ago. She cut the cash flow with a certain foreboding and not for the first time plunged into the world of work and the endless, mundane problems following upon the federal government's retreat from the 60-year-old welfare system.
 "It was difficult because the way welfare worked, it seemed I'd lose everything in one single jump," Ms. Carter said. In quick order, she needed new clothes, help with child care, a used car to get to her entry-level job and, most of all, someone to talk to at critical moments about the transition pitfalls. 
 "A nurturer," she said, smiling at the idea as near ludicrous under the old bureaucratic welfare system, as she had lived it for five years.
Now an entrepreneur running a dance school, Ms. Carter, 27, nodded toward Gerri Reynolds, her ever available "case manager" from the Urban League -- a nurturer, it turns out, in an experimental program called GAPS initiative intended to help with daily needs after welfare.
The program, developed with Allegheny County officials by the nonprofit Pittsburgh Foundation, is drawing national attention for its short-order ways of aiding 600 volunteer participants who quit welfare for jobs in the last three years. Whether in fixing a car or financing a hairdo for a job interview, the program is an effort to deal with one of the discoveries of the post-welfare world: For the transition to have a chance, the new job holders need something more than a cold-turkey farewell from government. 
They need the help with child care, transportation, health services and more that is enabling Ms. Carter and others to stabilize their new work lives. They need case managers like Phyllis Lakins of Hill House, tailoring services and building morale as a neighborhood presence available 24 hours a day. Ms. Lakins is a reassuring maternal figure, an enemy of defeatism shepherding dozens of working-poor parents, the vast majority of them women.
"I love her," said Troi Grissom, a city bus driver who greeted her case manager with a daughterly hug. 
"Whenever I have a problem I call her; if I don't she'll call me," said Ms. Grissom, a single mother whose electricity bill was paid with Ms. Lakins's help when she was laid up after a traffic accident. "She's everything, including my therapist." 
Such a testament was rare under the old welfare program in which politicians had case workers searching out abuses of taxpayers' money. Under the experimental program, the bureaucratic game face is gone as managers stress neighborhood-rooted care and arrange services that the working poor are unaware are still available after welfare. These include food stamps, child care, health and addiction services and the earned income tax credit.
The program has been enough of a success to be a model for a $68-million, four-year state program called RARE (for job retention, advancement and rapid re-employment). Pennsylvania is moving statewide to back community groups as providers of services and even stopgap petty cash that the post-welfare working poor have needed.
The county program, with its updated approach to the old settlement house way of helping people, is also cited as an exemplar for other states trying to run welfare-to-work programs. Dozens of experiments are under way in 43 states trying to help people build careers after welfare. 
"Everybody recognized the importance of job retention and career advancement in these programs," said Jack Tweedie, a specialist in welfare systems for the National Conference of State Legislatures, a research group. "But the states are discovering that vague ways aren't enough; they really have to be there. GAPS is more focused and more intensive and that's where the states are going now."
Nothing is magical about the program, welfare officials note; rather it takes precisely the mundane neighborhood approach to everyday problems that the old bureaucracy could never master. And, because the beneficiaries are working, the old welfare resentment from taxpayers is fading, administrators report. On average, each participant earned $1,663 a month, including $372 in food stamps, child care and other government programs. 
"We had something real to look at with GAPS," said Dr. Sherri Z. Heller, the deputy state public welfare commissioner. "One of the things we realized is how important it is for a participant to get a reliable message of how to stay employed from the people they already trust in their neighborhood."
The $1.2 million program is finding that most participants experienced steady economic progress. Hourly wages increased 14 percent in less than two years, averaging about $20,000 annually, with two out of three participants rising out of the official poverty range, according to an evaluation by the Mathematica Policy Research corporation, which specializes in social policy. The wages are modest, but half of the participants said this has only prompted them to seek better jobs. 
Next year, when the 1996 federal welfare law must be re-authorized, states will be arguing that job-retention programs like the one in Allegheny County are worth continued support. State administrators fear that Congress might cut support for job transition because of the dramatic winnowing of the national welfare roll from 4.4 million families in 1996 to 2.2 million last year. In Pennsylvania, the roll plummeted from 170,000 families to 89,000. The roll here in Allegheny County has fallen from 18,600 families to 9,800. 
States are free to use the savings from the drop for new services to encourage employment and job advancement by the working poor. Beverly Lovelace, a program officer at the Pittsburgh Foundation, proposed its program's approach of flexible help through old-line agencies respected in the neighborhoods. Wisconsin and other states are approaching this through existing state welfare agencies.
"People really wanted jobs that allow them to pursue their dreams," Annette Green, another program officer of the Pittsburgh Foundation, said in explaining the steep decline in the welfare rolls after the focus of the federal program shifted from cash support to employment.
Under the new rules, a needy citizen remains entitled to five years total cash assistance in a lifetime. "So going back to the welfare office is still an option for many of our participants," said Gerri Kay, the foundation's vice president. "But less than 20 percent have dropped out."
Dr. Heller of the state welfare commission said the program's subsidies and services are far less begrudged by taxpayers who used to complain of idlers on welfare. 
"The public is now convinced the program has a work ethic," she said. "And so there's no ambivalence about providing this help."
Among managers and participants, there is, though, a rising concern that the economic downturn might turn these success stories back into welfare cases. "What will happen to all this progress?" said Mr. Tweedie, of the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
Whatever the future, he and other specialists contend the nation can never return to welfare as we knew it. "The welfare world has changed," he insisted.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gerri Reynolds, top left, a case manager in a program in Pittsburgh, has helped Nicole Carter, 27, stay off welfare. Phyllis Lakins, above left, has been available for Troi Grissom, and her sons Mileek, 12, and Mikee, 8. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); COUNTIES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (70%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (60%) WELFARE (US); WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) PITTSBURGH (PA)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



494 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: In Suburbs, They're Cracking Down on the Joneses 

BYLINE:  By LISA W. FODERARO 

DATELINE: EASTCHESTER, N.Y., March 16 

 BODY:
Suburban communities are grappling with a new quandary as houses continue to mutate into ever-larger forms: how big is too big, and what can suburban communities do to try to rein in the monster house next door?
 In recent years, oversized homes -- labeled "McMansions" by some -- have spread from spacious gated enclaves to close-in suburbs, where they often dwarf their neighbors. Now, town officials, urban planners and irate neighbors in suburbs across the country are scrambling to find ways to rewrite zoning codes to restrict the size of new houses and additions to existing houses. 
 The result is pitting neighbor against neighbor and town against resident, while taxing the ingenuity of municipalities that often lack the tools, or will, to limit house size. And it is leading to drawn-out battles that fray nerves. 
"When you look out your doorstep and see houses that are 2,200 square feet, that presents a certain picture," said Jim Cavanaugh, supervisor of Eastchester, a town in Westchester County with older houses. "Suddenly, when there might be houses that are twice that size, people feel closed in and the neighborhood doesn't seem as open and airy."
In late 1999, Eastchester imposed a building moratorium and charged a committee with reviewing the town's zoning code. Like many towns and villages, Eastchester had limited house size only through generous setback rules, which require the sides of a house to be a certain number of feet from the property's borders. The town first imposed minor limits on size four years ago, but last fall it brought out the hacksaw, making further reductions.
"We recognize that the market today is for larger homes, and we want to keep Eastchester part of the market, but we don't want to allow these gargantuan houses," Mr. Cavanaugh said.
The ascendancy of the megahouse reflects a nationwide trend, one that began in California in the late 1980's and spread in the last decade. United States census information shows that the average size of a new single-family house sold in 1999 was almost 10 percent larger than it was a decade earlier, while the average yard size was 13 percent smaller. As a result, from Pasadena, Calif., to Newton, Mass., zoning laws have been amended with the aim of controlling housing bloat through complex restrictions, including floor-area ratios, demolition limits and upper-story setbacks.
Land-use experts and neighbors watching from behind picket fences say the impulse to put the maximum amount of house on an eighth or quarter of an acre disrupts the visual rhythm of an older street, sort of like planting a sequoia in a cherry grove.
In the village of Scarsdale, N.Y., the Committee for Historic Preservation has received applications to raze 15 houses since July, and the committee members, required to hew to specific criteria, have approved all but two.
One of the two -- and a current flashpoint -- is a 1920's colonial-style house on a half acre at 270 Fox Meadow Road. The owners, a builder and an investor, want to tear it down and replace it with two new houses, each larger than the original. Last Monday, the village's Board of Architectural Review denied the partners permission to demolish the house. But with subdivision approvals already in hand, the owners are now appealing to the Village Board, which has overturned decisions by the Architectural Review Board in the past.
Everyone is girding for an extended fight.
"One reason people move to Scarsdale is the open green spaces," said Robert F. Schoetz, a 32-year-old Manhattan transplant who lives across the street. "This destroys the neighborhood."
Responding to the spate of subdivisions, the Scarsdale Village Board recently rezoned four areas of the village to increase minimum lot sizes. In the meantime, the village is re-examining its zoning code, considering an approach that would cap total square footage but would also include area bonuses for design features like tucking the garage in the back of the house.
Of course, plenty of people want big houses, complete with soaring arched windows and spacious great rooms, hence their popularity. And not everyone is convinced that aesthetics is the only thing at issue in the disputes. Alfred A. Gatta, Scarsdale's village manager, suggests that the fury of neighbors does not always hinge on questions of scale and character. "No one wants a house bigger than theirs, and they scream," he said. "Down deep, the thinking is, 'I don't want anyone to have a house better than mine.' "
The potential for conflict was a motivating force in Pelham Manor, a village in lower Westchester County where only a few houses had grown uncomfortably large through additions. Last year, the Village Board amended its local zoning code to limit the footprint of a house, as well as that of a swimming pool or detached garage, to a certain percentage of the lot. "You'd rather have the ordinance on the book than try to do it after the horse is out of the barn," Mayor John S. Kiernan said.
Nearby, the village of Mamaroneck recently took steps to restrict footprint and square footage. Before the law was enacted, someone could build a 14,000-square-foot house on a half acre. Now, the maximum size allowed on that lot is 7,000 square feet. And the amount of house allowed on a quarter acre has shrunk from 7,000 square feet to 4,500 square feet.
But the restrictions would not prevent the very houses that led to the zoning changes in the first place, like two homes on Frank Avenue that tower over their neighbors. The mayor of Mamaroneck, Deborah Chapin, said the village still needed to do more work on the issue. "I don't think we can rely only on a mathematical formula," she said. "We need to give the Architectural Review Board objective criteria about the surrounding neighborhoods so that we don't end up with houses that are out of character."
In the New York region, the phenomenon is certainly not limited to Westchester County. In North Hempstead on Long Island, the Town Board attacked the issue in late 1999 on several fronts: reducing allowable height, increasing setbacks on sideyards and lowering caps on total house area for most lots, among other things. In New Jersey, a few pioneering towns placed limits on overall size years ago, only to return with tougher zoning amendments later, as the borough of Demarest did in 1996.
In Connecticut, the town of Greenwich took action in late 1998, imposing limits on overall square footage in its two- and four-acre zones for the first time. Previously, builders had to adhere only to setback requirements. Now, a new house on two acres cannot exceed 7,800 square feet, while a new house on four acres cannot exceed 11,000 square feet. In all other residential zones, the town trimmed the maximum floor area of new homes by 10 percent.
Builders are wary of the toughening postures of municipal boards. In Scarsdale, Shlomo Freidfertig, a developer who hopes to tear down two houses and replace them with six, said that by crimping house size, local governments were contradicting consumer demand and meddling with home values.
"I am frustrated," said Mr. Freidfertig, a resident of Scarsdale for 21 years. "Our home is our asset, our future, our retirement, and when you come in and put a restriction on a piece of property, it's interfering with people's rights and reducing the value of the property."
Mr. Freidfertig voiced a common rationale among builders: that the values of existing houses rise when a larger one is built. "Those neighbors opposed to my subdivisions are going to benefit the most because I'm bringing the whole neighborhood up," he said.
Try telling that to Ken Gogarty, who now sees a tall brick house from his backyard in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. where he used to see woods. The new house on Shady Lane, at 3,054 square feet, is only 20 percent larger than the raised ranches and other houses nearby. But because it was built on a bluff, it looms over its neighbors.
"It looks like a public school in New York City," said Mr. Gogarty, a construction manager whose own 19th-century Victorian seems doll-sized by comparison. "It's depressing. It makes me feel like moving."
Planning experts say a weakening economy could slow the numbers of large new houses being built. But they caution that the pressures will continue.
"Basically, what people want is almost like a free-standing condo where they don't have attached walls," said Lester D. Steinman, director of the Edwin G. Michaelian Municipal Law Resource Center of Pace University in White Plains. "It's funny because the whole concept of going to suburbia originally was to have a little bit of open space."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture of a house in Westchester County on Monday with the continuation of an article about efforts to restrict the building of oversized suburban houses was published in error. The house was in the village of Pelham, which has not enacted new restrictions, not in neighboring Pelham Manor, which has.

GRAPHIC: Photos: As houses continued to get bigger in Pelham Manor, N.Y., the village acted to restrict sizes to a percentage of each lot. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B5); The construction of these two homes in the village of Mamaroneck, N.Y., helped prompt new zoning rules. (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (94%); ZONING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TRENDS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); CITIES (71%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (65%); HISTORY (64%); CENSUS (50%) HOUSING; SUBURBS; ZONING; LAND USE POLICIES 

PERSON: FODERARO, LISA W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); EASTCHESTER (NY); 

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



495 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Air Force Proposes Plan to Help Boeing With Sale of Planes 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 18 

 BODY:
In a twist to the Pentagon's growing efforts to bolster the defense industry, the Air Force has devised an ambitious plan to help Boeing, the world's biggest commercial jet producer, sell a version of its latest jumbo military transport plane to private cargo companies.
 The plan calls for the Air Force to provide an unusual array of financial incentives to encourage private carriers to buy the transport plane, the C-17 Globemaster, including guaranteed government transport business, a Pentagon promise to buy back C-17's from firms that go bankrupt, and even subsidies up front. 
 In exchange, the private haulers would be required to make their C-17's available to the Air Force for war and other emergencies.
The plan is subject to the approval of Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld, who has yet to review it, and Congress, where the C-17 program will be pitted against other big-ticket programs facing cuts. 
But for Boeing, the plan could help create a market in oversized commercial cargo planes potentially worth billions of dollars, more than enough to keep its C-17 line in Long Beach, Calif., humming into the next decade. Without new orders, the 8,500-worker plant there is expected to close within five years. The plan would begin with the sale of 10 of the planes to commercial cargo companies at a total cost of $1.6 billion. 
"We see this as win, win, win, for the Air Force, for Boeing and the air cargo industry," said George P. Sillia, a Boeing spokesman in Long Beach.
But Pentagon watchdog groups say the proposal underscores an alarming trend toward government-business partnerships that weaken Pentagon oversight of the defense industry and raise questions of favoritism. The partnership may diminish the Air Force's desire to hold a contractor to the strictest accountability, these critics warn, and may result in the buying of weapons that are not necessary.
"These cozy relationships have always existed," said Danielle Brian, executive director of the Project on Government Oversight, a nonprofit watchdog group that has studied the C-17 program. "But this is more overt than in the past. And that's a disaster for taxpayers."
Industry experts say the C-17 proposal is groundbreaking in its foray by the military into the private sector. Although the Pentagon has in the past authorized contractors to sell commercial versions of military equipment, this would be the first time in memory that it would help do the selling by offering such broad financial incentives, the experts said.
And with many defense contractors asserting that they have been dangerously weakened by shrinking military budgets, such forays could become more common, the experts said.
"It's a sign of the times," said Richard Aboulafia, an expert in military aircraft with the Teal Group, a consulting firm. "A fiscally weakened Department of Defense, declining markets and an industrial base that has over-capacity are potent recipes to encourage a more interventionist approach," Mr. Aboulafia said. "There is no question we'll see more of this."
The Air Force-Boeing collaboration has its roots in the post-cold-war downsizing of the military. In 1990, convinced that the Air Force had more than enough airlift capacity, Dick Cheney, then the defense secretary, slashed the C-17 acquisition program to 120 aircraft from 210 to bring the total cost to about $40 billion. The last of those planes is scheduled to arrive by late 2004. 
About two years ago, Boeing began urging the Air Force to buy an additional 60 C-17's above its current order. Many Air Force officials welcomed the offer, saying the Air Force needed more aircraft to replace aging C-141 cargo planes and to meet the military's growing needs overseas.
But Congress was skeptical, saying it would approve additional C-17 purchases only if the price -- more than $200 million each -- came down by 25 percent. At that point, Boeing resurrected an old idea: to sell a commercial version of the C-17. That would keep the production line open longer, reduce the price per plane and thereby make it easier for the Pentagon to justify buying more, Boeing asserted.
Excited by the idea, the Air Force assembled a marketing team that included active and retired Air Force officials, Boeing representatives and marketing consultants. The panel's final report, completed in November, concluded that there was an emerging market for transporting "heavy outsize" cargo, things like drilling equipment, satellites, jet engines and large trucks. The panel predicted that this market, though tiny now, would grow substantially in the coming decade.
Perhaps predictably, the panel contended that the C-17 would be superior to the less costly aircraft currently serving that market, the Russian An-124, which is no longer in production. Though smaller than the An-124, the C-17, which can carry about 80 tons of cargo, is more reliable and capable of landing at smaller airfields, the report said. 
The panel concluded that the plan would lead to lower-cost planes for the Air Force and higher profits for Boeing. The creation of a commercial C-17 "could establish Boeing as the dominant force in an as yet unexploited commercial market with high potential," the report says.
But the panel also found considerable skepticism among commercial air-freight carriers, who worried about the high cost of the C-17, questioned the size of the market and wondered whether they could get financing.
"We asked, what can the U.S. Air Force do to help incentivize this to help companies buy these?" said Col. Gregory L. Lockhart, deputy director of the Air Force's global reach program.
The answer was a complicated set of subsidies. Under the plan, the Air Force, instead of buying 60 new planes, would buy 50, with an additional 10 going to private companies. (These would be in addition to the 120 C-17's the Air Force is already obligated to buy.)
The Air Force would help private carriers buy the planes by providing grants and long-term guarantees of government transport business to help defray the cost. And to allay concerns that finance companies could get stuck with planes that could not be sold if the freight companies defaulted on their loans, the Air Force said it would buy back the C-17's any time a carrier went bankrupt.
In exchange for all that, the carriers would be required to place their C-17's in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet, allowing the Air Force to use them in national emergencies. But because the commercial versions, known as BC-17's, would lack certain military features, including advanced software, the Air Force would be limited in how it could use them.
The subsidies could cost more than $200 million a year, the Air Force report said. But Air Force officials assert that after subtracting those costs, the plan would save taxpayers more than $1 billion over five years, because the Air Force would be buying fewer planes at a lower cost per plane.
That logic assumes the Air Force needs more than the 120 C-17's it is already obligated to buy. Critics say it does not, pointing to a 1997 study by the General Accounting Office, a Congressional research division, which concluded that the Air Force could complete its mission with just 100 C-17's.
"When a person goes into a very expensive store and sees a $200 dress selling for 10 percent off, they may buy it and say they saved money," said Ms. Brian of the Project on Government Oversight. "But if you didn't need the dress in the first place, you haven't saved anything."
The proposal faces many hurdles. In addition to the plan's requiring approval from Secretary Rumsfeld and Congress, Boeing will have to modify the plane to meet Federal Aviation Administration regulations that do not apply to the military.
And private carriers will have to sign up. The Air Force and Boeing held an "industry day" in Long Beach last month to promote the plan, but reaction from the 30 companies who attended was tepid, industry officials said.
"We're interested in the concept," said Randy Martinez, chief information officer for World Airways Inc., an air freight company based in Virginia. "But there are a lot of unanswered questions."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A United States Air Force C-17 Globemaster, made by Boeing, taking off last month near Melbourne at the Australian International Air Show. The Air Force has a plan to help drum up business for the plane. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A16) Chart/Diagram: "PROFILE: C-17's for Sale"The Air Force and Boeing hope to team up to market the C-17 cargo transport plane to commercial companies. COST: About $160 millionSPEED: 500 m.p.h.CREW: ThreeHEIGHT: 55 ft., 1 in.MAXIMUM TAKEOFF WEIGHT: 585,000 lbs.(Source: Federation of American Scientists)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FREIGHT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); AIRLINES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); APPROVALS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (58%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; C-17 AIRPLANE; AIR FORCES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; FREIGHT FORWARDING; BANKRUPTCIES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (94%); FEDERATION OF AMERICAN SCIENTISTS (59%) BOEING CO 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%) SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



496 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Reviving the Japanese Economy 

 BODY:
The White House pointedly scheduled today's visit by Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori of Japan ahead of a visit by one of China's top diplomats to register the importance of Washington's alliance with Tokyo. As it turns out, the meeting could scarcely be better timed. Mounting financial problems in Tokyo are adding to the anxieties unsettling America's stock markets. After a decade of economic stagnation in Japan, Mr. Mori and his politically battered Liberal Democratic Party seem to lack the will and the imagination to set a course for recovery. Americans once worried about seemingly invincible Japanese competition. Now Washington needs to help reverse Japan's economic decline. 
 America and Japan are the world's two largest economies. If neither one is growing, much of the world will feel the pain. Mr. Mori reportedly hopes to steer today's discussions away from pressing economic issues. That would be a mistake. 
 Japan's most urgent concern is deflation, a long-term decline in property values and other prices that has choked off borrowing and worsened the financial health of an already weak bank system. A plunging stock market has added to the financial pressures. In the short run, this can be addressed through an emergency increase in the money supply and a weeding out of the weakest banks. 
But Japan's structural problems go deeper and run up against the Liberal Democrats' aversion to serious economic reforms. Government policies protect businesses from vigorous competition and the consequences of failure. Fearing deflation, consumers save too much and spend too little. Years of deficits squandered on useless public works construction have left the government too indebted to act effectively in the banking crisis. These projects appealed to patronage-oriented politicians but did little to generate consumer demand. Most important, successive governments refused to open up markets to internal and external competition. Washington's usual advice to Tokyo has been to deregulate the economy and to stimulate it with tax cuts and public spending. But only the second part of this formula has been consistently followed. 
No sustained Japanese recovery is possible without far-reaching bank reform that, like America's savings-and-loan rescue of a decade and a half ago, shuts down or sells off the weakest institutions. A full government bailout will not solve the problem unless it is tied to reform. With the Liberal Democrats already fearing steep losses in Upper House elections this July, Tokyo's politicians have little appetite for reforms that could increase government debt, hurt business interests and boost unemployment. Washington should weigh making these changes more palatable by agreeing to let the yen decline against the dollar. Doing so would help Japan, but at some cost to import-sensitive American industries like autos. With the threat of recession hovering over America's own economy, the Bush administration is understandably reluctant to accept a cheaper yen. It should consider doing so only if Mr. Mori agrees to a serious restructuring of the banking industry. 
Halfway measures are unlikely to revive Japan. Mr. Mori has already indicated that he intends to step down as prime minister next month. That could leave party elders more free to endorse strong measures and to insure that his successor carries them out. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DEFLATION (89%); BANK FAILURES (87%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); RECESSION (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); TRENDS (69%); MONEY SUPPLY (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BANKS AND BANKING; CURRENCY; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MORI, YOSHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



497 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Albanian War Cry Rises Half a World Away, in Staten Island 

BYLINE:  By CHRIS HEDGES 

 BODY:
The Ideal Night Club, a haunt of ethnic Albanian emigres from the Balkans on Midland Avenue in Staten Island, was flush Saturday night with several hundred eager men preparing for war. Most wore black leather jackets and had short, razor-edged haircuts. The air was thick with the acrid odor of cigarette smoke under pink, blue and green neon lights. Waiters in blue shirts and ties hustled drinks to the tables.
 "Once again there is war," said Agim Mati, 33, as he stood with his brother in the back of the hall, "but this time I will not sit it out. There are four brothers from my family in the United States. The two oldest of us will leave soon for Macedonia to fight. The two youngest will remain to take care of our families. I called my father in Macedonia and told him we were coming. He does not want us to come. He does not want us to die. He wants to fight himself, but he is 59. This is our job. And we accept that freedom will only come when we are willing to give up our lives for it." 
 Ethnic Albanians, who make up at least a quarter of the two million people in Macedonia, complain of discrimination and harassment from Macedonia's Slav majority. Late last month, under the banner of a rebel movement operating inside Macedonia called Ushtria Clirimtare Kombtare (the National Liberation Army), ethnic Albanians began an insurrection. The guerrilla force, which is closely linked with the Kosovo Liberation Army, which fought the Serbs in Kosovo, says in official communiques that it will respect the territorial integrity of Macedonia as long as the rights of Albanians are recognized. 
But those who are preparing to fight said they would not put down their guns until all pockets of ethnic Albanians, especially those in western Macedonia and Serbia, are united in one nation that includes Kosovo and Albania. They also say they will seek to topple the government in Skopje, dominated by Macedonian Slavs since its independence from Yugoslavia in 1991.
"We have waited patiently, since the Macedonian state was created, for equal rights, and they have never come," said Bekim Shanen, 25, who will depart soon to join the rebel movement. "Each day someone we know leaves, although it is always done quietly, in secret. We turn around and they have gone. There are many of us who have waited years for this chance. We will not stand by and watch." 
The National Liberation Army, in ads that appeared for the first time on Saturday in such Albanian-language papers as Bota Sot called for volunteers and donations. And those who raised money and helped send recruits to fight in Kosovo have begun reactivating old networks. On Thursday a senior National Liberation Army leader, who arrived from Macedonia to hold a invitation-only meeting at the nightclub, a block from the water, made an impassioned plea for volunteers and funds. It was the first such appeal made in New York.
"We asked him what the vision of the movement was," said Baudin Sela, 48. "He read us a list of demands that included changing the constitution, making our language an official one in Macedonia, letting us have state-run Albanian-language education, economic development and freeing our political prisoners. There were about 400 people in the room and only one person got up to say we should not go to war. The rest of us supported the cause." 
The rebel leader, who did not give his name to the group, left the next day with five volunteers, promises by many more to join in the coming weeks, and a half-million dollars in cash, said those who were present.
It is unclear how many locally will volunteer to fight, but people in the Albanian community said the number could reach a few hundred.
"I expect a large response," said Dervish Jahjaga, the managing editor of the United States edition of Bota Sot. "There will be no shortage of men willing to go and fight. Many are trying to arrange things here so they can leave. They will not stay here and wait for the Macedonian police to kill their fathers and mothers." 
The Macedonian government has included ethnic Albanians in the cabinet and been far more tolerant with minority populations than the leaders of Macedonia's neighbor, Serbia.
Rebel leaders have told volunteers they will be trained in the use of weapons and tactics, presumably in Kosovo or Albania. Northern Albania, which shares a border with Kosovo, was the staging area for the war with the Serbs.
"We know where to go," said Mr. Mati, who has never been a soldier and who will leave behind three young children, "and our leaders have promised us that those of us who need to be trained will be trained. Things are well organized. I know that if I do not come back, my brothers will take care of my wife and children."
None of the men who planned to join the insurrection, some of whom fought in Kosovo, said they were concerned about the efforts by NATO peacekeepers to block supply routes and rebel incursions from Kosovo into Macedonia.
"We know the country much better than the NATO soldiers," said a veteran of the war from Kosovo, who refused to give his name, but said he had volunteered to fight. "There are not enough of them to block the whole border."
The ethnic Albanians in Macedonia and those in Kosovo have always been bonded in blood and politics. Many ethnic Albanians studied in Pristina, the capital of the Kosovo province, and were active in the protests against the Serbs. During the war in Kosovo, ethnic Albanians from Macedonia -- including those at an event in Brooklyn that raised $1.6 million in one evening -- gave millions of dollars to the Kosovo Liberation Army. 
The Kosovo rebel force, when it was founded to fight the Serbs, included ethnic Albanians from Macedonia in its leadership, including a barrel-chested man who moved through the hall Saturday night clasping hands, joking and exhorting veterans from the war in Kosovo to return to the fight. When asked what he did in Kosovo, he gave a wry smile and answered, "Kill Serbs."
Those gathered in the hall shared the latest news from Macedonia, gleaned from a variety of news outlets and daily phone calls with relatives there. They debated the impact of the fighting near the second-largest city, Tetovo, the shelling of rebel positions along the border with Kosovo, the street demonstrations by Slavic Macedonians calling on the government to give them arms, the threat of a state of emergency and the decision by the French government to brand the rebel fighters terrorists.
When the hall started to clear, many of the men leaving for night jobs or families, a group of older militants gathered around a table, drinking potent red Macedonian wine and picking at a platter of meat. They had spent months or years in Macedonian jails, first under the Yugoslav Communist government and then the Macedonians, for involvement in Albanian nationalist groups. And as the wine flowed, the abuse of the Macedonian Slavs grew. 
"My chemistry degree was useless" in Macedonia, said Qenan Ame, 48, who works as a lab technician and who gave $500 to the rebel movement. "I could not get a job in my own country because I was an Albanian." The men reached back into their own mythology, assuring one another that Alexander the Great and the Roman emperor Constantine, as well as the Greek philosopher Aristotle, were Albanians, and that the ancient Serbian Orthodox monasteries and churches in Macedonia and Kosovo were built by Albanian Christians.
They told stories that each seemed to have heard before, of prison sentences, beatings and abuse meted out by Slavs to fathers and grandfathers.
"The Macedonians are beasts; they are more primitive than us," said Namik Uruci, 63. "All of their epics glorify one thing, cutting off the heads of non-Serbs. All Albanians have only one nation and only one flag. Our nation was taken from us. Now we will get it back."
A song by Agron Maqellara, who comes from Dibra, in Macedonia, was played repeatedly over the sound system. It called on the "six million Albanians in the Balkans, with one flag, one language" to unite and fight for freedom. 
"War is good," said Mr. Sela, "because in a war you win or lose. We are tired of waiting."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Agim Mati, left, with his brothers Argjent, Gani and Burim, all ethnic Albanians, outside their Staten Island home. Agim and another brother will soon leave for Macedonia to join in fighting for the Albanian cause. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); FAMILY (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); COUPS (69%) VOLUNTEERS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (MACEDONIA) 

PERSON: HEDGES, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) ALBANIA (95%); KOSOVO (94%); SERBIA (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%) MACEDONIA (FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



498 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: Companies Turn to Grades, And Employees Go to Court 

BYLINE:  By REED ABELSON 

 BODY:
An increasingly popular technique for evaluating employees is prompting lawsuits charging discrimination at three big companies.
 At issue is the ranking of managers, professionals and sometimes lower-level employees from best to worst, or grading them on a bell curve, and then using that ranking to help determine pay and sometimes whether to fire someone. 
 In their suits, all filed over the last year or so, employees at Microsoft, Ford Motor and Conoco say the rating systems are unfair because they favor some groups of employees over others: white males over blacks and women, younger managers over older ones and foreign citizens over Americans.
A growing number of companies are turning to grading systems, also known as forced rankings or distributions, as a way of making sure managers evaluate employees honestly and make clearer distinctions among them. At companies that do not compare employees with one another this way, nearly every employee can come away feeling above average, like the children of Lake Wobegon. But under the grading system, managers are forced to identify some people as low performers. 
At General Electric, for example, supervisors identify the top 20 percent and bottom 10 percent of their managerial and professional employees every year. The bottom 10 percent are not likely to stay.
As John F. Welch Jr., General Electric's chief executive, wrote last month to shareholders, "A company that bets its future on its people must remove that lower 10 percent, and keep removing it every year -- always raising the bar of performance and increasing the quality of its leadership."
Ranking or grading employees is also common at technology companies like Cisco Systems and Hewlett-Packard. But recently the concept has been catching on more broadly, according to management consultants. One reason is that as the economy slows, companies often lay off employees. Cisco, for example, announced earlier this month that it would let go as many as 5,000 workers -- and would use grading as one way to identify people to lay off.
"Companies are playing their version of 'Survivor,' " said David Thomas, a professor at the Harvard Business School.
Another reason is that some companies are eager to copy Mr. Welch, long viewed as one of the most successful managers in America.
Defenders of these systems say anyone who gets a low grade is likely to view the process as unfair. " 'A' students love grades; 'F' students hate grades," said John Sullivan, a human resources professor at San Francisco State University.
But the techniques, which some employees label with terms like "rank and yank," have come under sharp criticism. While they appear to offer an objective way to judge employees, they can be vulnerable to bias, Mr. Thomas said. Managers may stereotype employees when evaluating them on vague criteria like career potential -- deciding that older workers, for example, may have a harder time keeping up with new technology.
In some cases managers can view these systems "as a tool to be used to weed out the ones you don't want," said Thomas S. McLeod, a lawyer in Canton, Mich., who represents employees suing Ford in another case.
Critics of the system also argue that companies should not apply a bell curve, in which a small number of employees get the highest and lowest rankings and a much larger number are grouped in the middle. The bell curve model assumes a normal distribution among a very large group of random individuals, not small groups.
What is more, across a company, people who belong to a particularly talented unit will suffer if a certain number of them must be given poorer grades than they would get in another unit.
"You end up with dysfunctional results," said Edward E. Lawler III, a business professor at the University of Southern California.
Some lawsuits contend that Microsoft's grading systems are discriminatory. One, filed last October, seeks class-action status on behalf of blacks and women. The suit states that the rating system "permits managers, who are predominantly white males, to rate employees based upon their own biases rather than based upon merit."
According to the lawsuit, employees are rated on a five-point scale, with only a certain percentage permitted to receive each score. Employees doing the same job in the same unit are also given a "stack ranking," from most to least valuable. Managers decide those rankings largely using what are called "lifeboat discussions," where they choose which employees they would want with them if stuck in a lifeboat. Managers had no other clear criteria, according to Christine Webber, a lawyer at Cohen, Milstein, Hausfeld & Toll who is representing the employees.
Grading is highly subjective at Microsoft, according to Peter M. Browne, a former executive who is also suing the company, charging discrimination. Mr. Browne, who is black, said managers were forced to use a curve in evaluating even small groups. He said he had to rate a group of five on a curve, for example, in deciding which ones would not receive stock options.
"You weren't told anything -- just meet the curve," Mr. Browne said. 
He says managers ended up favoring people with whom they socialized. "People gravitate to people who are like them, and the system just forces that," he said.
Microsoft defends its system as fair and helpful. "We want to give the highest compensation to the very top performers," said Deborah Willingham, senior vice president for human resources, adding that the system included checks and balances to ensure fair treatment. Employees can appeal their ratings, for example, and are largely responsible for developing the criteria by which they are evaluated.
Ms. Willingham also said the company did not ask its managers to give a fixed percentage of their employees any given score. "We don't force that curve to look any certain way," she said.
Microsoft has no formal "stack rank" policy, she said. And when managers do have lifeboat discussions, they are a tool to consider which employees they would want to keep if they were starting again.
While the company would not comment on the lawsuits, Microsoft "expressly prohibits discrimination," Ms. Willingham said.
Similar criticisms emerged in a lawsuit brought last month against Ford. It argues that the company's new grading system discriminates against older workers. The company, which adopted what it calls its performance management process a year ago, gives its 18,000 managers A, B or C grades. Last year, the company awarded 10 percent an A, 80 percent a B and 10 percent a C. 
Ford also faces a second lawsuit asserting that it unfairly discriminated against older white males in its grading.It would not comment on the litigation but defended its use of grades. "We believe the system is fair and nondiscriminatory," a company spokeswoman said. "We are in a very competitive industry, and we need all of our employees to be the best they can be."
At Conoco, employees contend that the company discriminated against United States citizens and older workers when it laid off a dozen geophysicists and other scientists in 1999 based on a ranking from one to four, according to a lawsuit filed last year. The majority of those let go were Americans, according to the suit, as opposed to British, Norwegian and Canadian professionals.
"The rating system was selectively enforced, and there were instances of manipulation," said John Zavitsanos, the lawyer representing the workers. Even though some were given higher ratings on earlier rankings, they were eventually given the lowest possible rating of four.
Conoco, based in Houston, has extensive operations in the North Sea, and many of the senior managers at the division in question are British, according to Mr. Zavitsanos.
While Conoco said it could not comment on the litigation, it said its evaluations were based on several factors, including performance, skills and expertise. The company said ratings often changed as more information was collected and people were evaluated in larger groups. Conoco company also denied that decisions were based on anything other than individual capabilities.
Companies "do need something in making pay decisions, downsizing decisions," said Jim Kochanski, a consultant with Nextera Enterprises. The problem is that companies may not take enough care in deciding how people should be ranked. "They can get it very wrong," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter M. Browne says Microsoft's system is discriminatory. (Jim Stem for The New York Times)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); DISMISSALS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); EMPLOYEE TIMEKEEPING (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) LABOR; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DISCRIMINATION; AUTOMOBILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; WAGES AND SALARIES; WOMEN; BLACKS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (66%); FORD MOTOR CO (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; FORD MOTOR CO; MICROSOFT CORP; SUNOCO INC 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (66%); FORDP (PAR) (57%); F (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (51%) ABELSON, REED 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



499 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Compressed Data; 
Gorbachev: A Site to Remember

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
"HAPPY 70TH BIRTHDAY PRESIDENT GORBACHEV!" 
 The enthusiastic birthday greeting on the lushly designed new Web site (www.mikhailgorbachev.org) seems a little incongruous on the otherwise less-than-festive Web page, which includes glowing descriptions of Mikhail S. Gorbachev, a former leader of the former Soviet Union. 
 The fledgling site features a scrolling timeline that charts Mr. Gorbachev's life -- from his birth in Privolnoje to his current roles as president of the Gorbachev Foundation and of the environmental group Green Cross International. Strains of Rachmaninov play in the background as images of Mr. Gorbachev, his late wife, Raisa, and world leaders slide by.
The site also contains enthusiastic testimonials for Mr. Gorbachev from people like Henry A. Kissinger ("His place in history, as the man who undid the Soviet tyranny, is secure."), former President George Bush ("With glasnost and perestroika your farsighted vision paved the way for arms reductions, for ending the cold war and for bringing to your country a democracy and a market economy that will serve Russia well for years to come."), the former Secretary General of the United Nations Boutros Boutros-Ghali ("The name Mikhail Gorbachev speaks volumes about hope, change and freedom."), Margaret Thatcher ("It was clear to me, as it quickly became clear to Ronald Reagan -- that other great architect of freedom -- that Mikhail Gorbachev was a man with whom we could 'do business' ") and Diane Meyer Simon.
Diane Meyer Simon? Ms. Simon, a philanthropist and founder of the environmental group Global Green USA, the United States affiliate of Global Green, is helping to pay for the site, which made its debut on March 2, Mr. Gorbachev's 70th birthday. 
Leila Conners Petersen, whose Web site development company, the Tree Media Group of Santa Monica, Calif., created the Gorbachev pages, said: "This is just the beginning. This is, 'Hey, Mr. President -- happy birthday!' And to the world at large, 'Hey, remember this guy.' " 
The executive director of Global Green USA, Matthew Petersen (the husband of Leila Conners Petersen, for those charting the interconnections), said that the birthday greeting was an opportunity for people to pay tribute to "perhaps the greatest man of the 20th century." JOHN SCHWARTZ

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEB SITES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CHRONOLOGIES (77%); COLD WAR (77%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%) PHILANTHROPY; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN CROSS INTERNATIONAL (83%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) GREEN CROSS INTERNATIONAL 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; SIMON, DIANE MEYER; SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



500 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Economy Lurks Low on Agenda as Bush and Prime Minister Prepare to Meet 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 18 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori of Japan arrived here this afternoon for his first, and likely last, encounter with President Bush, as both Japanese and American officials acknowledged that they had made virtually no progress on drafting a joint statement to reassure world markets that Japan had a firm plan in place to restore economic growth.
 The White House had hoped to transform Monday's meeting with Mr. Mori from a ceremonial first visit to a substantive discussion of the risks ahead for both economies if Japan is unable to resolve its looming banking crisis and stock market downturn. 
 But a senior Japanese official said today that Mr. Mori was arriving with "nothing new to say." 
Meanwhile, some Japanese financial officials have complained that the decline in the American markets is worsening Japan's long-term troubles, especially for Japanese banks holding American equities. 
The finger pointing between Tokyo and Washington has only complicated the politics of Monday's session. Japanese officials say they now hope Mr. Bush and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell will stick close to a prepared script, reaffirming the importance of the security relationship with Japan, apologizing for the sinking of a Japanese ship by an American submarine near Hawaii -- and going light on economic critiques. 
It remained unclear tonight what strategy Mr. Bush would choose in discussing the economy.
"The Japanese problems are humongous in comparison to whatever cyclical downturn is affecting the United States," said Kenneth Courtis, vice chairman for Asia at Goldman, Sachs, the international investment bank. "There is a Himalaya of debt crashing down on the Japanese economy, and the plan that the Japanese have now has only sent the markets in Tokyo down another 7 percent. This is the biggest problem in the world economy today, and it's made worse by super weak governments in Tokyo." That last item is not an issue Mr. Mori is likely to talk about.
Monday's visit marks the first of three international encounters for Mr. Bush this week in which his words, tone and body language will be watched with unusual care.
As Mr. Mori makes his one-day visit on Monday, Israel's new prime minister, Ariel Sharon, will be here seeing General Powell, as well as Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld; Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser; and the director of central intelligence, George Tenet.
On Tuesday Mr. Sharon, who met Mr. Bush in Israel three years ago, will come to the White House seeking the president's tacit approval of his approach to the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, far more cautious and hard-line than that of his predecessor, Ehud Barak.
On Thursday China's deputy prime minister, Qian Qichen, is scheduled to visit the White House, a session likely to be dominated by talk of China's foot-dragging on its entry into the World Trade Organization and Mr. Bush's pending decisions on whether to sell advanced arms to Taiwan and to move ahead with missile defense.
"In the space of one week," a senior State Department official said Friday, "we've got to make a start on the three toughest problems Bush is likely to face this year: Japan, the Middle East and China." 
Just a few months ago, the Bush administration thought it had a strategy worked out for two of these encounters: an elevation of the Japan alliance, which Mr. Bush's foreign policy aides say President Clinton allowed to deteriorate, and a repositioning of China as a "strategic competitor" and occasional economic ally, but not the "strategic partner" Mr. Clinton frequently talked about.
Mr. Bush also vowed that as part of his "humble" approach to foreign policy, he would not lecture the Japanese in public about how they should revive their economy.
"We have to regard Japan as a mature, independent country that determines its own destiny," Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's top economic adviser, said in an interview last week. "Even if we are the older brother and Japan is the younger brother, we have both grown up as democracies. When you are 14 and 8 years old there is a disproportionality in the relationship that doesn't exist when you are 46 and 40."
Many Japanese officials wince at the use of the big-brother, little-brother analogy, saying it has shades of the terminology used during the American occupation of Japan after World War II. But oddly enough, some Japanese bureaucrats argue privately that a more public critique of Japan might be politically useful to reformers in Japan, because it could help force the Liberal Democratic Party to justify long overdue economic changes that are resisted by its key constituencies.
The most important of such reforms, likely to be discussed privately on Monday but scarcely mentioned in the joint statement, is a cleanup of the huge real estate debts that threaten the integrity of Japan's banking system. The Japanese government made a halfhearted attempt at bailing out the banks three years ago, spending hundreds of billions of dollars of taxpayer funds to pump up the banks' balance sheets. But the banks and the politicians could not stomach closing many insolvent banks and selling off real estate at fire-sale prices to get the market going again, the strategy the United States used in the savings and loan crisis in the 1980's.
In Japan, that would probably lead to bankruptcies in the construction and retail industries, and large layoffs. But now the Japanese government, already deep in debt, cannot afford another huge bailout. Meanwhile, Mr. Mori is about to lose his job, and politicians do not want to make any difficult decisions before a national election, probably this summer.
"The question is whether we can wait that long," one of Mr. Bush's aides said last week.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori of Japan was greeted by Bill Koepler of the State Department on his arrival yesterday at Andrews Air Force Base. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); TRENDS (71%); BANK FAILURES (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (64%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); EHUD BARAK (59%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%) MORI, YOSHIRO (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (92%); ASIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



501 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Plunge in Stocks Colors Debate on Size of Fed Interest Rate Cut 

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve will meet tomorrow to decide how much to cut interest rates in an effort to revive the economy just when a falling stock market seems to have the power to bring on a recession.
 No one doubts that Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, and his fellow policy makers will reduce the federal funds rate from its current level of 5.5 percent when they gather in Washington. The question is can a big enough rate cut keep the 10-year-old expansion rolling. 
 Many on Wall Street are lobbying for a cut of three-quarters of a percentage point, or even more, to stop the sell-off of stocks. But other experts argue that a half-point cut is enough for an economy that, apart from the market, still has considerable strengths. 
"What I am concerned about is that we are heading into the unknown because of the stock market," said Ian Shepherdson, chief domestic economist at High Frequency Economics, who favors a reduction of three-quarters of a percentage point. "We have never had so big a decline in stock prices at a time when stocks were so widely held."
The debate over how far the Fed should go to reduce short-term interest rates -- thus influencing what lenders charge for mortgages, home equity loans and other credit -- reflects very different views of the market's impact on the economy.
The Fed's policy makers, including Mr. Greenspan, have soft-pedaled this impact. They have repeatedly stated that their goal is to target the real economy, asking themselves what must be done to increase lackluster consumer spending, work down a backlog of unsold cars as well as other goods, keep up home sales by reducing mortgage rates, and the like. The stock market, in this view, is just one ingredient in the mix.
But the meeting tomorrow will come after a week of plunging stock prices. And many are urging the Fed to recognize that the economy now dances to the stock market, not the other way around.
One important difference, they say, is that nearly 50 percent of American households now own stock, up from less than 10 percent in the early 1960's. And equities, at least until the recent plunge in the market, have become the most important single source of wealth in the country.
"The Federal Reserve has not been able to cope with this changing structure," said Henry Kaufman, the bearish Wall Street economist and consultant. He asserts that, among other shortcomings, the Fed has failed to incorporate into its interest rate policy the extent to which spending and borrowing respond to shifts in a family's stock portfolio. He wants a full percentage-point cut, perhaps enough in his view to end the stock market slide and the damage it is doing to the economy.
Such thinking, however, is widely challenged in academia, where the stock market's movements are often viewed as a less important influence on the economy than factors like the level of unemployment, the value of homes and the pace of wage gains.
"We take the view that the Fed should keep its eye on the inflation ball," said Ben S. Bernanke, a Princeton economist. "The stock market is relevant to the extent that fluctuations in stock prices affect the inflation forecast."
Mr. Greenspan is clearly focused on the real economy, not the stock market. In his last Congressional testimony, on Feb. 28, he concluded that "the sources of long-term strength in the economy remain in place."
That is certainly the case for home prices, which have continued to rise, on average. And for most Americans, homes represent a bigger investment than stocks. Partly because the Fed has cut rates by a percentage point since Jan. 3, the average interest rate on a 30-year mortgage has fallen to 6.96 percent from 7.38 percent in December.
What troubles the economy, Mr. Greenspan said, are the excesses -- too much inventory, for example, and too much capacity -- that built up in 1999 and 2000. These excesses "engendered a retrenchment that has yet to run its full course."
The stock market came up mainly in Mr. Greenspan's comments on consumer confidence. "There may not be a seamless transition from high to moderate to low confidence," he said. The "unpredictable rending of confidence is one reason that recessions are so difficult to forecast," he said.
Among the reams of statistics that Mr. Greenspan will take to the meeting tomorrow are preliminary findings for March from the University of Michigan's monthly survey of consumer sentiment. Those findings suggest that consumer confidence, while no longer falling, as it did in December, January and February, began in March to show the first effects of the Wall Street sell-off. 
"We have been talking to lots of people who say they are recession-proof," said Richard T. Curtin, director of Michigan's Consumer Surveys. "People always initially insist that a downturn will affect others more than themselves. But as the weeks pass, we get to the point where fear and uncertainty take over."
That may be just beginning to happen. For months, people told the surveyors that they viewed the future as bleak, both for the economy and their own finances, but that they saw their current circumstances as positive. That order reversed in March, Mr. Curtin reported Friday.
The preliminary findings for the month, based on 350 telephone interviews -- 100 of them last week, while stocks plunged -- found Americans optimistic that the economy, and the market, would rebound in 2002, but increasingly pessimistic about the present. An index measuring future expectations rose, while one measuring current conditions fell sharply.
The 100 households polled last week were "marginally less happy than the others," said Mr. Curtin, whose organization will conduct 150 more interviews before the final March results are announced in two weeks. "I don't think consumers have completely digested what has happened to the stock market during this most recent week, and until they do, we won't know the damage to confidence," he said.
At the same time, the stock market sell-off raises a new issue in the debate over tax cuts. The administration of President Bush has asserted that the tax cut will revive a faltering economy because Americans will spend most of the money they no longer must devote to taxes. But in interviews last week, White House officials mentioned the possibility that people would save some of the tax money or use it to pay down debt, now that shrinking stock portfolios can no longer justify the debt. 
"It is kind of hard for the administration to advocate savings and stimulus" simultaneously, a senior White House official said.
If Americans save most of the money from a tax cut or use it to pay down debts, the economy is more likely to remain sluggish.
"Seventy percent of the debt is owed by the bottom 90 percent of the population," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's DRI, a consulting and data gathering operation. "They are not the ones owning most of the stock, but many own some, and the falling market is making them nervous."
Most of the surge in stock ownership to nearly 50 percent of the population -- and 86 percent of households with incomes above $50,000 -- came since 1980, particularly with the advent of defined contribution pension plans, in which people save for their own retirement. The most popular of these savings vehicles, 401(k) plans, held $1.7 trillion in December 1999, the latest figures available.
Three-quarters of this money was invested in stock, according to the Investment Company Institute. And thousands of retirees who receive monthly or quarterly checks from these accounts will soon get checks for smaller amounts -- a fresh blow to consumer confidence. The pension payments, recalculated periodically, are based partly on a percentage of the value of each account. As stocks in these accounts fall in value, so will the pension checks.
That is certainly the case at TIAA-CREF, the teacher retirement fund, which recalculates its 401(k) accounts each March 31. Pension checks now go to 250,000 retirees, most of whom have at least some stock in their accounts. And when they get the next check, there will also be a letter from John H. Biggs, TIAA-CREF's chairman. He will remind them that while their pensions are now a bit smaller, last year they increased an average of 22 percent.
"I did not send them a letter last year, and they did not send me a thank you note," Mr. Biggs said. "But I will probably hear from them this year."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Fed Watch"With consumer confidence and the stock market dropping amid signs of an economic slowdown, the Federal Reserve is widely expected to cut interest rates. FEDERAL FUNDS RATEGraph showing increase and decrease of the federal funds rate. CONSUMER CONFIDENCEGraph showing increase and decrease of consumer confidence. STANDARD & POOR'S 500Graph showing increase and decrease of the standard and poor's 500.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FAMILY (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); LOBBYING (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (65%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) UCHITELLE, LOUIS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



502 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Taliban Explains Buddha Demolition 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

 BODY:
With outrage still fresh around the world over the destruction of two giant Buddha statues in Afghanistan, a Taliban envoy says the Islamic government made its decision in a rage after a foreign delegation offered money to preserve the ancient works while a million Afghans faced starvation. 
 "When your children are dying in front of you, then you don't care about a piece of art," Sayed Rahmatullah Hashimi, the envoy, said in an interview on Friday. 
 Mr. Rahmatullah is in the United States on a mission to improve ties and ease the Taliban's isolation. A main focus of his visit, he said, will be to find a way out of the impasse surrounding Osama bin Laden, the terrorist suspect whose presence in Afghanistan has prompted international sanctions. 
Still, Mr. Rahmatullah expressed no remorse over the demolition of the two giant Buddhas, carved from a cliff in central Afghanistan 1,400 years ago and considered one of the world's artistic treasures. 
An adviser to the Taliban leader, Mullah Muhammad Omar, Mr. Rahmatullah gave for the first time here the Taliban's version of events: how a council of religious scholars ordered the statues destroyed in a fit of indignation. 
The destruction, according to his account, was prompted last month when a visiting delegation of mostly European envoys and a representative of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization offered money to protect the giant standing Buddhas at Bamiyan, where the Taliban was engaged in fighting an opposition alliance. 
Other reports, however, have said the religious leaders were debating the move for months, and ultimately decided that the statues were idolatrous and should be obliterated. 
At the time the foreign delegation visited, United Nations relief officials were warning that a long drought and a harsh winter were confronting up to a million Afghans with starvation. Mr. Rahmatullah said that when the visitors offered money to repair and maintain the statues, the Taliban's mullahs were outraged. 
"The scholars told them that instead of spending money on statues, why didn't they help our children who are dying of malnutrition? They rejected that, saying, 'This money is only for statues.' "
"The scholars were so angry," he continued. "They said, 'If you are destroying our future with economic sanctions, you can't care about our heritage.' And so they decided that these statues must be destroyed." The Taliban's Supreme Court confirmed the edict. 
"If we had wanted to destroy those statues, we could have done it three years ago," Mr. Rahmatullah said. "So why didn't we? In our religion, if anything is harmless, we just leave it. If money is going to statues while children are dying of malnutrition next door, then that makes it harmful, and we destroy it."
"What do you expect from a country when you just ostracize them and isolate them and send in cruise missiles and their children are dying?" he said, referring to the sanctions and American attacks against Mr. bin Laden's base in Afghanistan after the bombing of two American embassies in Africa in 1998. 
"You don't recognize their government," Mr. Rahmatullah added. "It is a kind of resentment that is growing in Afghanistan." 
At the same time, he said the Taliban would not destroy statues actually being worshiped, and would not touch the Hindu temples still left in Afghanistan. 
Mr. Rahmatullah is due to meet officials of the State Department and National Security Council on Monday in Washington, where he will also speak next week at the Council on Foreign Relations, the Atlantic Council of the United States and the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
He would not disclose details of a possible new proposal for a way out of the standoff over Mr. bin Laden, the Taliban's fourth, saying he needed a signal from Washington first.
But there are reports in Pakistan that one option might be turning Mr. bin Laden over to a special tribunal, perhaps in The Hague, for trial by a panel of Islamic judges. 
The Clinton administration had rejected an Afghan trial, international monitoring of Mr. bin Laden -- whom Mr. Rahmatullah described as a nobody the Americans made into a hero -- or exile in another Muslim country. 
Mr. Rahmatullah's visit and the wide hearing he is getting have provoked criticism in Congress, particularly from supporters of India, which along with Russia has begun to give military help to the Taliban's opposition. He was given an American visa because he falls below the rank of the highest officials in the Taliban government, who are barred from traveling under an embargo.
Throughout a long interview on a range of subjects, Mr. Rahmatullah maintained the fiercely independent attitude of the Taliban, who have demonstrated repeatedly to the United Nations that they will cooperate with the world only on their own terms.
"They want to change our policies through economic sanctions," he said of the United States and other nations that pushed an embargo through the Security Council. "That does not work. For us, our ideology is first, then the economy. To try to change our ideology with economic sanctions is ridiculous."
Mr. Rahmatullah, who is 24 -- Mullah Omar, at 40, is the oldest of the Taliban's leaders -- grew up in a refugee camp near Quetta, Pakistan, and was educated in an Islamic religious school there. He learned to speak almost flawless English in a class for refugees.
On his first trip to the United States, he said he liked Americans more than he expected because he found them more open-minded than Europeans. He has been speaking at universities on the West Coast. 
Mr. Rahmatullah said the Taliban were in fairly desperate need of agricultural help to supply farmers who once planted opium and to teach them to grow other crops. The United Nations narcotics control program has told the Taliban it has no money for seeds, and drug-control officials wonder if the new ban on poppy cultivation can be sustained.
Mr. Rahmatullah said the Taliban were making strides in health and education with very little foreign help. He said medical or nursing schools for men and women had now opened in Kabul, Kandahar, Jalalabad, Herat and Mazaar-i-Sharif. 
A curriculum for the first seven years of general schooling had been prepared, he said, combining religious and secular subjects in separate schools for boys and girls. 
The Taliban has come under criticism for its treatment of women, who must be shrouded head to toe, cannot leave home unaccompanied by a male relative and have been removed from some jobs and schools where they might mix with men. 
Mr. Rahmatullah and his wife, Jamila, another former refugee, have just had their first child, a daughter. They named her Soriya. "It means the Pleiades -- you know, the stars," he said. 
Did he want her to go to school? 
"Of course," he said. "She will not be a good mother if she is not educated."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sayed Rahmatullah Hashimi at an interview in New York. He is to meet with Washington officials this week. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); TALIBAN (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); STARVATION (89%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMINE (77%); MALNUTRITION (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); TRENDS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ARCHAEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; FAMINE; ISLAM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BUDDHISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (54%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%) CROSSETTE, BARBARA; HASHIMI, SAYED RAHMATULLAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%) AFGHANISTAN; BAMIYAN (AFGHANISTAN)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



503 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Military Decisions Loom Over Meeting With China
As President Bush prepares to meet with a senior Chinese official, his administration faces two major military decisions: whether to design a missile defense capable of countering China's nuclear force and whether to sell destroyers to Taiwan, both of which could put the United States on a collision course with Beijing. A1

West's Message to Macedonia
With the conflict intensifying in Macedonia, the Bush administration and European allies are making it clear that they have no interest in using NATO-led peacekeepers to fight Albanian insurgents. A1

Paris Elects a Socialist Mayor
Voters have chosen a Socialist, Bertrand Delanoe, to run Paris in what is seen as a blow to the conservative president Jacques Chirac. A3

Another Spy Suspect
The F.B.I. says the press attache in the Russian Embassy in Washington who abruptly left for Moscow last week was a spy. A6

Few Hopes for Plan on Japan
Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori of Japan arrived in Washington to meet with President Bush, as officials said that they had made no progress on a joint statement to reassure world markets on Japan's economy. A8

New Trial for American in Peru
Lori Berenson, a former M.I.T. student convicted of terrorism by a Peruvian military court five years ago, is set to begin a new civilian trial. A3

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Parkinson's Therapy Setback
An experimental therapy for Parkinson's disease suffered its second setback in a month when the treatment did not work in a clinical trial. C2

Magazine Shifts Focus
Scientific American, the 155-year-old magazine for the amateur scientist, has been revamped and plans to pay more attention to technology. C11

NATIONAL A10-16

Conservatives Find a Home In the Bush White House
The conservative establishment is getting an extraordinary amount of attention from the White House. Conservatives say they feel like an integral part of the administration. A1

Pentagon Backs Plane Sales
The Air Force has devised an unusual plan to help Boeing sell a version of its latest jumbo military transport plane to private companies. The plan calls for Air Force incentives to buyers like guaranteed government transport business and a promise to buy back planes from firms that go bankrupt. Critics have raised concerns about the government-business partnership. A1

Campaign Finance Debate
The Senate is set to begin today its broadest debate on campaign financing in nearly a decade. A12

Suits Over Ranking Employees
A popular technique for evaluating employees is prompting lawsuits that accuse Microsoft, Ford and Conoco of bias. At issue is the ranking of employees from best to worst, or grading them on a bell curve, to help determine pay and sometimes whether to fire someone. A1

Critical Decision for Fed
The Federal Reserve will meet tomorrow to decide how much to cut interest rates in an effort to revive the economy just when a falling stock market seems to have the power to bring on a recession. A14

EDUCATION

Law Focuses on School Bullies
Colorado lawmakers, focusing on a common theme in school shootings, are expected to pass legislation soon requiring schools to have policies curbing bullying. A handful of states are considering such rules. A10

Challenge to Internet Curb
The American Civil Liberties Union and the American Library Association are to file suits tomorrow in federal court to overturn a law that requires federally financed schools and libraries to use Internet filters to block access to anything deemed harmful to children. A15

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Bigger Is Not Always Better When It Is Built Next Door
Suburbs across the region are grappling with a new quandary. Zoning officials and neighbors are trying to decide how big is too big, and what they can do to try to rein in the monster house next door. A1

Inquiry Into Racial Profiling
New Jersey legislators are set to open an inquiry this morning into racial profiling -- the issue that the administration of former Gov. Christie Whitman could never shake -- and its handling by the aide she appointed attorney general. The first scheduled witness is a police sergeant who gathered information on the race of those arrested by troopers. B5

ARTS E1-8

Lincoln Center Peace Pact
The Metropolitan Opera, after its two-month secession over complaints of being ignored by Lincoln Center's leadership, has agreed to rejoin the center's $1.5 billion redevelopment project under new rules that would give the opera a larger say. E1

Sculptors' Haven to Be Recast
A unique Manhattan center incorporated more than 50 years ago to encourage the study of sculpture by amateurs as well as professional artists may be in its last days. The board of the Sculpture Center, whose alumni include Isamu Noguchi and Rube Goldberg, has decided to sell the building that houses the center and invest the proceeds in a radically different center in Queens that will explore more experimental three-dimensional art, without the distraction of students. E1

OBITUARIES B6

John Phillips
A founding member of the Mamas and the Papas, the folk-pop group whose uplifting melodies and harmonies epitomized sunny optimism at the dawn of the hippie era, he was 65. B6

BUSINESS DAY C1-20

NBC Adjusts Its Set
The head of NBC said he would shake up its programming, scrapping its Sunday night movie after a 20-year run, adding two hours a week of reality programs and creating a new Saturday night format with cheaper shows. Jeff Zucker, who has been president for three months, said he also wanted to confront what he called the inflexible salary structure for actors and writers. C1

New Round in Archives Fight
A fight between freelancers and media giants over ownership of work in electronic archives is shifting to the Supreme Court, opening the way for the court's first decision on who owns what on the digital frontier. C1

Surfing the Solar Skies
Angel Technologies plans to provide high-speed Internet access by using solar-powered, high-altitude manned aircraft. C4

Business Digest C1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-12

Woods Ends Losing Streak
Tiger Woods shot a 69 in a scrambling final round to put his 0-for-8 streak behind him. D1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Campaign reform's hour of trial; reviving the Japanese economy; drug-sentencing battle in Albany.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E6
Crossword E8
Metro Diary B2
Public Lives A10
TV Listings E7
Weather D11

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); MILITARY COURTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); ESPIONAGE (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (71%); TERRORISM (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (69%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); CLINICAL TRIALS (64%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (61%); DISMISSALS (60%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (77%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); JAPAN (93%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); TAIWAN (92%); PERU (92%); FRANCE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ALBANIA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



504 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Washington Memo; 
For Bush, a Chronicle Of Bad News Foretold

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 18 

 BODY:
Normally, presidents are cheerleaders for the nation's economy.
 On Oct. 19, 1987, the day the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 508 points, or 22.6 percent, President Ronald Reagan said the historic fall was simply investors taking profits. The next day, he blamed Democrats in Congress. The day after that, Mr. Reagan proclaimed that the crisis "appears to be over." 
 In 1991, when the economy was last in a recession, President George Bush told Congress in his State of the Union address that there were "reasons to be optimistic about our economy." He predicted, accurately, that "we will get on our way to a new record of expansion and achieve the competitive strength that will carry us into the next American century." 
For President Bill Clinton, touting the economy posed no problem, since he presided over a period of unremittingly good economic news.
Now comes George W. Bush, who is presenting what an analysis in The Financial Times last week called "the novel spectacle" of a president "urging citizens to ignore good economic news and focus on the bad."
All week, the president talked about the economy "sputtering," and he wrapped up the week on Saturday by beginning his weekly radio address to the nation this way: "Good morning. For several months, economic indicators have pointed toward a slowdown, and now many Americans are starting to feel its impact. The stock market is causing worries, high energy prices are straining family budgets and some workers and small-business people have been directly affected by layoffs and slowing retail sales."
The fact of the matter is that the stock market did have a very bad week -- its worst in 11 1/2 years -- and many people are beginning to feel the pinch. But the economic news is not universally bad. 
The Labor Department reported that 135,000 jobs were created in February, and the unemployment rate remained low at 4.2 percent. Retail sales remain relatively strong, particularly for big-ticket items like cars. Almost certainly, given the growth in jobs, the economy is not now in a recession.
But Mr. Bush and his advisers clearly decided a while back that the best shot they had for getting the public to support and Congress to approve a large tax cut was to argue that the measure was essential to bolster a sagging economy.
Early in his presidential campaign, in December 1999, when the economy was on a roll, Mr. Bush outlined his tax plan to the Chamber of Commerce in Des Moines and suggested that economists might be wrong in forecasting continued economic growth. Just in case, he declared, taxes should be lowered because "if delayed until a downturn begins, tax cuts would come too late to prevent a recession."
Last September, with the campaign heating up, the economic horizon was still free of clouds, but Mr. Bush adopted a new slogan -- "education recession" -- and he began using it in his daily stump speeches.
"In some places, there is a recession in America," he said at a high school in California. "In some school districts, there is a recession, and this country needs to do something about it early, before it's too late."
He always used the term in the context of what he called a crisis in the nation's public schools. But if people took it in an economic context, the way the word recession is usually used, that was O.K. with Mr. Bush and his advisers.
As the campaign wore on, Mr. Bush seized on every piece of unfavorable economic news. In late September, for instance, after an increase in oil prices, he spoke at a container-manufacturing factory in Green Bay, Wis., and emphasized the possibility of a sharp economic downturn.
He began using the term "second wind," which he is still using today, to describe what a tax cut could give the economy.
On Election Day, the economy was by all accounts still strong. The unemployment rate was at 3.9 percent, a 30-year low. Consumer confidence was extremely high despite higher oil prices and fluctuations in the stock market. Economic growth in 2000 was expected to be the strongest since the end of Ronald Reagan's first term in 1984. A Bloomberg News survey of economists showed that they expected the economy to expand by a healthy 3.7 percent over the next 12 months.
But shortly after the election, weaknesses began to appear. Sales of autos, housing and computers began to slide. Less favorable statistics showed up on capital spending, corporate profits, consumer confidence, factory production, store sales, income, job creation and stock prices.
With the outcome of the election still being contested, Mr. Bush and his associates jumped at the opportunity to attribute the weakness to the Democratic administration.
On Dec. 3, Dick Cheney went on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" and declared, "We may well be on the front edge of a recession here."
That was just the beginning. On Dec. 15, two days after Al Gore conceded the presidency, Mr. Bush said, "Vice President-elect Cheney was right in echoing concerns, my concerns about a possible slowdown."
A week later, he told reporters: "I keep hearing talk about, you know, well, this is an administration that is trying to talk down the economy. That's foolish talk. All of us in the Bush administration will want the economy to be strong. But there are some clear warning signs, warning signs that will require what we believe is important action in the halls of Congress, such as tax relief."
On Jan. 3, after the Federal Reserve Board lowered interest rates for the first time in more than two years, Mr. Bush declared that a tax cut was "an integral part of economic recovery" -- recovery being a term usually used to describe what happens when the economy begins to grow after a recession.
In his Inaugural Address on Jan. 20, Mr. Bush called for a tax reduction "to recover the momentum of our economy."
On Feb. 8, when he sent his tax bill to Congress, he said: "The warning signs are clear. All of us here in Washington, the president and the Congress, are responsible to confront the danger of an economic slowdown and to blunt its effects."
On Feb. 13, there was a bit of good economic news, a report showing strong growth in retail sales in January. Asked about it by a reporter traveling with him on Air Force One, Mr. Bush said, "I think it's one good statistic amongst a sea of some pretty dismal statistics."
Last week, Democrats in Congress came close to blaming Mr. Bush for the bad stock market by saying that to bolster the case for a tax cut, he had scared consumers and investors.
"I think what we're seeing is a talking down of the economy," said Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the Democratic leader in the House of Representatives. "I think that kind of economic leadership is irresponsible. I think it's mismanagement of our economy."
But Mr. Bush's defenders discount the Democratic statements as petty politics. "To suggest that the president's words have caused any of these actions," said Ari Fleischer, the press secretary, "is as wrong as wrong can be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush explained the advantages of his tax cut plan to a group of small-business owners last week at the White House. All week, Mr. Bush had talked about the economy "sputtering." (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RECESSION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (84%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); RETAIL SALES (64%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); TAX RELIEF (64%); APPROVALS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



505 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1691 words

HEADLINE: Conservatives Savor Their Role As Insiders at the White House 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 18 

 BODY:
For many conservatives, the heady days of the first Reagan administration were as good as it gets. Until now.
 Two months into the Bush administration, the conservative establishment is getting an extraordinary amount of attention from the White House. Administration officials regularly attend the meetings of the important conservative coalitions. They coordinate lobbying strategy on issues like President Bush's plan for a tax cut. They take conservatives' recommendations on policy and appointments very, very seriously, and have assembled an administration that is "more Reaganite than the Reagan administration," as Edwin J. Feulner, president of the conservative Heritage Foundation, puts it. 
 In fact, conservative leaders say they feel like an integral part of this administration, rather than an outside constituent group, invited in for the occasional photo opportunity with the president. Many also say the contrast could not be more striking with former President George Bush, who alienated much of his conservative base even before he reneged on his "no new taxes" pledge. 
In short, says Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform and a leading conservative strategist: "There isn't an us and them with this administration. They is us. We is them."
The impact of this conservative ascendancy is clear on policy and staffing. The first few months have seen a string of victories for what Mr. Norquist calls the "center-right coalition," from reversing the administration's position on regulating carbon dioxide, to rolling back the new Labor Department rules aimed at preventing repetitive stress syndrome, to imposing a new ban on federal aid to international family planning groups that counsel or promote abortions. The conservative influence is felt not only on the major cabinet-level appointments, like Attorney General John Ashcroft and Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao, but also the lower-tier jobs that are now being filled.
But the benefits flow two ways, particularly as the battle over Mr. Bush's signature tax plan moves to a Senate divided 50-50 between the parties. Conservative groups are providing the administration with additional organizational muscle, grass-roots networks that can be brought to bear on wavering senators and the incalculable security of a strong and contented base.
A good snapshot of this relationship comes every Wednesday, at 10 a.m., when Mr. Norquist convenes "the Wednesday meeting" -- an invitation-only gathering of more than 100 representatives from social, religious and economic groups in the conservative movement, as well as business and trade associations, Republican Congressional leadership offices and the major research groups on the right. These meetings, which began in 1993 to try to stop the Clinton health care initiative, are often focused these days on advancing the Bush agenda. The Bush administration has had at least one representative at every meeting.
And the lineup is often impressive: Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's chief economic adviser, briefed the group on the president's tax plan at one meeting last month, declaring, "We have a battle on our hands, but I think it's a battle we're going to win." 
Moments later, Ken Mehlman, director of political affairs at the White House, told the group that the president's tax cut would pass when the roar from the crowd enveloped the political leaders here in Washington -- as it did, he said, during Mr. Bush's inaugural address. "The key to this will really be what kind of grass-roots support we get," Mr. Mehlman said.
The Wednesday meeting is an important vehicle for building that support. "If you want to say, 'Hey, guys, we'd like your help on x, y and z,' there are 110 guys there," Mr. Norquist said. "They come out of that meeting, go back to their groups, and they're talking to thousands of people."
Many of the groups at the Wednesday meeting have, in fact, formally endorsed the tax cut in recent weeks and spread the word to their memberships. In some cases, they swallowed objections to particular parts of the bill, or, in the case of business, to omissions. Mr. Norquist argues that this reflects the new maturity of the conservative movement. At one point, he told the Wednesday meeting: "There's a patience that comes from being in power. We're going to be in power next year and the year after that and the year after. It enables us to play a salami-slicing strategy that the left did for 40 years."
Mr. Norquist's meeting ends at 11:30; shortly thereafter, many conservatives head to a lunch meeting that Paul Weyrich began in 1983, which draws about 70 conservative advocates. There, too, someone from the administration has attended every week; at one recent meeting, for example, conservatives expressed concern to an administration official about the issue of embryonic stem cell research, which is under review by the Department of Health and Human Services. 
"I've been through five Republican administrations, and the effort to communicate with conservatives and to understand our concerns and address our concerns and involve us in the process is the best of any of the Republican administrations," Mr. Weyrich said, "including Ronald Reagan. In fact, far superior to Ronald Reagan."
At the Heritage Foundation, Mr. Feulner says he talks to Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's political czar, a couple of times a week. (Mr. Norquist has known Mr. Rove for 22 years, since they met when they were both members of the College Republicans.)
When Mr. Feulner spoke to a reporter one recent afternoon, he had just returned from the swearing-in of Ms. Chao, a former Heritage Foundation official, as labor secretary. "My first time in the Oval Office in quite a few years," Mr. Feulner said. Still, he could see a lot of familiar faces, with Heritage alumni now scattered in jobs throughout the administration. Moreover, Mr. Feulner added, Mr. Bush was "quite enthusiastic" about some of the policy reports the foundation had sent him.
And at the conservative Family Research Council, Kenneth L. Connor, its president, says, "We are afforded access to the highest senior officials." When Mr. Connor's group held its two-day annual "Washington Briefing" for social conservatives this week, the speakers included Mr. Ashcroft; Mel Martinez, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development; and Tim Goeglein, a deputy in the White House Office of Public Liaison, whose portfolio includes religious and social conservatives. The president delivered a taped greeting, Mr. Connor said.
Mr. Rove is widely credited with creating the political structure that keeps conservatives so happily engaged. Mr. Weyrich suggests that the administration's attentiveness may stem from the closeness of the election, "that they're there by the grace of God, and if they don't pay attention to their coalition they won't be there."
But there may be an even simpler explanation, Mr. Norquist suggests: that Mr. Bush, unlike his father, came of age during a conservative ascendancy, and he is utterly confident in the power and appeal of his conservative beliefs.
Indeed, said Ralph Reed, the former Christian Coalition strategist who advised the Bush campaign last year, Mr. Bush had a long history as governor of Texas of working closely with "the grass-roots constituencies that were important to the Republican Party." 
Mr. Reed added, "They did not get everything they sought, but it was a very symbiotic, effective and transparent relationship, that was based on respect and in many cases longstanding friendships."
As the administration now confronts a recalcitrant Senate, after the House passed the tax cut on a party-line vote, conservatives are hoping to raise the heat. Some conservative groups, like the Issues Management Center, are running radio commercials in selected states. Mr. Norquist's Americans for Tax Reform is working to get state legislatures to pass resolutions in support of the tax cut -- particularly useful in states with Democratic senators.
Mr. Norquist recently participated in a conference call with hundreds of state legislative leaders, outlining the strategy; Vice President Dick Cheney helped make the pitch.
Conservative groups are also keeping close watch on the various departments; for example, Christie Whitman of the Environmental Protection Agency has drawn frequent fire from the right on global warming and other issues.
But some conservative leaders say the movement is simply less wary of the Bush administration than it was of previous Republican administrations. "Part of it is a more mature center-right coalition that isn't expecting to be double-crossed," Mr. Norquist said. 
Part of it, others suggest, is that many conservatives now see themselves less as outsiders than as part of a conservative establishment, with like-minded allies throughout the government. 
Indeed, there is a growing group of conservatives who have now moved in and out of government, Mr. Feulner of the Heritage Foundation said, gaining more and more credentials as they go. Officials at the foundation passed on 1,200 to 1,300 names and resumes to the Bush administration and say they are quite pleased with the results so far, at the cabinet level and at the next tier. Among the recent nominees particularly popular with conservatives was Wade F. Horn, formerly president of the National Fatherhood Initiative, a group aimed at "restoring responsible fatherhood as a national priority," who was nominated assistant secretary at Health and Human Services for family support.
Part of this evolution for conservatives, Mr. Norquist argues, is an ever closer alliance with the business community. "Part of what we're doing is bringing K Street and the business community in," he said, using shorthand for the lobbying community. "They should be an integral part of the center-right coalition. What does the business community want? Deregulation. Free trade. Tax cuts."
Mr. Norquist laughs at those who argue that the tension between economic and social conservatives will inevitably plague the Republicans. "It's like the physicists who tell you bumblebees can't fly," he said. "But bumblebees fly."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Grover Norquist, the president of Americans for Tax Reform, has the Bush administration's ear. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TAX REFORM (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (64%); FAMILY PLANNING (51%); RELIGION (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TAXATION; CONSERVATISM (US POLITICS) 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICANS FOR TAX REFORM (91%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (57%) AMERICANS FOR TAX REFORM 

PERSON: ELAINE CHAO (58%) NORQUIST, GROVER; BUSH, GEORGE PRESCOTT (FORMER PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TONER, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2001 



506 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: A Musical Comedy Star? No, She Just Plays Them; 
Christine Pedi Keeps Making an Impression With Her Parodies of Broadway's Divas

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
For the last 10 years, while most musical-theater performers have been struggling to become Broadway stars, Christine Pedi has been impersonating them.
 Able to adjust her voice to the gutsy gravel of Elaine Stritch, the breathy vibrato of Liza Minnelli or the childlike chirp of Bernadette Peters, Ms. Pedi has uncannily inhabited each of those leading ladies and countless others as one of the quartet of players in the 19-year-old spoof "Forbidden Broadway." 
 Hear Ms. Pedi belt out "Curtain up, light the lights, and you better turn off all the mikes," and you could swear you were hearing Ethel Merman reincarnated. 
Watch her contort her mouth as she morphs into Patti LuPone or widen her eyes as she channels Carol Channing, and it is clear that what Ms. Pedi makes look easy is difficult and rare. Reviewing the latest edition of "Forbidden Broadway" in The New York Times, Ben Brantley called Ms. Pedi, who has played the most performances of any cast member, "the sharpest caricaturist of the group." 
In perfecting this kind of satire, Ms. Pedi is following in the tradition of revues like the 1950's "New Faces," which introduced performers like Imogene Coca, Eartha Kitt and Paul Lynde and used material by aspiring writers like Mel Brooks. Similarly, Betty Comden and Adolph Green in their early days wrote and performed sketches at the Village Vanguard as part of the Revuers, a group that also included Judy Holliday.
Gerard Alessandrini, who created and writes "Forbidden Broadway" -- which currently plays at the theater at Ellen's Stardust Diner and is updated regularly -- said that Ms. Pedi was notable not just for her ability to caricature actresses but also to conjure them. "She's more than a mimic," he said. "She's zeroing in on what makes them tick." 
Why 10 years? Why hasn't Ms. Pedi moved onto something else? Because, she said, she loves the show. Because it has taken her to other cities and keeps changing, which keeps it interesting. Because it is a steady paycheck, and Hollywood has not come calling yet.
In this way Ms. Pedi is like other performers who have had just enough fame to keep the fire going. She was nominated for a Drama Desk award in 1996 for her performance in "Forbidden Hollywood," which parodies movie stars. She made her Broadway debut in the revival of "Little Me" in 1998. She recorded some material for the recent ABC film about Judy Garland (although most of it ended up on the cutting room floor) and last week was among those featured in "Nothing Like a Dame," the annual all-female performance to benefit the Actor's Fund. Yet she still lives in a studio apartment in the theater district with a bed in the dining alcove and a postage-stamp kitchen, where she defiantly manages to turn out cookies for fellow cast members because, gosh darn it, she is determined to bake. ("I come out with bruises," she concedes.)
She remembers all too vividly what it took to get this far. She handed out samples of Godiva chocolate at a Bloomingdale's in White Plains and orange Crush and grape Nehi in the Waldbaums in Larchmont, N.Y. She played Carlotta the Gypsy Cow at an I.B.M. family day downwind of the petting zoo at the Dutchess County State Fair. ("I don't do pastures or pull a plow, my name's Carlotta, I'm a gypsy cow.")
She also handed out fliers for Bonds men's store; she thought she'd be giving them to passers-by in the mall outside the shop in Long Island City, Queens, not to drivers on the ramp from the tunnel. "That's why, whenever I see that guy dressed up like a cell phone on Ventura Boulevard" in Los Angeles Ms. Pedi said, "I say, 'There but for the grace of God . . .' " 
Ms. Pedi now has her fans, and she hustles to build and sustain that following, corraling people who come up to her after a show onto her mailing list (now with 600 names) and peppering them with fliers about her other events, like a Comden and Green review last fall (she proudly shows snapshots of her beaming between the songwriters); "Gypsy of the Year," the annual Broadway Cares/Equity Fights AIDS benefit.
"My sister's pediatrician has come and wants to be on my mailing list," she said. "Those are the people you have to work at cultivating." 
Even the recent cabaret evening Ms. Pedi performed at the Firebird Cafe on Restaurant Row, West 46th Street, in Clinton, "Forbidden Divas . . . Undressed," was her own idea and produced at her own expense: $1,000, including $50 an hour for the piano player, $300 to mail the fliers (some of which she put up herself on the backstage bulletin boards of Broadway shows), $55 for the burgundy velvet gown on sale with a coupon at Lord & Taylor and $75 for the jewelry to match.
Ms. Pedi had planned to have two such solo evenings, but only seven people signed up for the first one, and she had to cancel it. The second one was full, though she said she knew everyone in the audience except members of the press. Another performance at the Firebird is planned for April 19.
In addition to Broadway legends like Gwen Verdon, Julie Andrews and Barbara Streisand, Ms. Pedi's "Forbidden Divas" included the movie star Sharon Stone ("I'd play Madame Bovary by showing you my ovary," she sings to the theme from "Rawhide"), whom Ms. Pedi has done in productions of "Forbidden Hollywood."
Her cousin came to see her cabaret performance. "It was so important that my cousin Vinnie liked it," Ms. Pedi said in a recent interview at her home, where the southern exposure makes the temperature a perpetual 85 degrees. "I never get to go to any of his backyard barbecues because I'm always working Sundays."
When Ms. Pedi was growing up in Eastchester, N.Y., the first cast album she heard was "My Fair Lady." The first cast album she owned was "Bye, Bye, Birdie." 
"When I heard that overture, I couldn't believe it," she said. "I couldn't believe how gorgeous it was." She said she was also influenced by her cousin, Tom Pedi, a character actor who was in the original productions of "Guys and Dolls," "Death of a Salesman" and "A View from the Bridge."
"Tom did it for the love of theater," she said. "He didn't care about the approval of anyone else. He did it because he loved to be onstage."
Ms. Pedi took singing in high school, performing mostly "Italian art songs about women who want to throw themselves off bridges," she said. Her parents, both hairdressers, owned a beauty salon that they sold when personal blow dryers became popular. Then her father, now retired, drove a bus, and her mother went into real estate. Ms. Pedi will not give her age except to say she is in her 30's and "old enough to remember the Beatles and young enough to have watched 'Sesame Street.' "
She went to Fordham University, where she studied communications and worked at the radio station, anchoring the news and becoming arts editor, which allowed her to see two or three Broadway shows a week. After graduating she played the Westchester circuit: the Pleasantville Music Theater, the Chappaqua Drama Group, the Harrison Players. She did voice-overs. She "temped and temped and temped."
In 1990 she went to an open call for "Forbidden Broadway." "I vowed that it was my last cattle call," she said. "I wouldn't sit in a room with 300 other girls and wait and wait and wait." 
The people from "Forbidden Broadway" asked her if she did impressions. She did her Italian grandmother, then Carol Channing. They gave her music to take home to do Patti LuPone and Ethel Merman. When she came for the callback a week later, she nailed both characters. "I thought this girl was tremendous," Mr. Alessandrini said.
Ms. Pedi started on the "Forbidden Broadway" national tour in 1991, spending 109 days on the road traveling to 67 cities with only 5 days off. The three days in Akron, Ohio, made a particularly strong impression. "I will never forget it as long as I live," she said. "Akron needed a lot of lovin'."
After five weeks in Salt Lake City, Ms. Pedi moved to a sit-down company of "Forbidden Broadway" -- meaning one that stays put -- in her case in Detroit, where she had a side baking business she called Musical Comedy Cookies; the advertisement showed a tap-dancing chocolate-chip cookie with a bow. Next came Japan ("because who's going to say no to Tokyo, right?"), then Denver. Finally she got the call she had been waiting for: Mr. Alessandrini asked her to join the New York company. She thought he would never ask. 
"I believe you work your way up the ladder," she said. "In my case it's been one rung at a time."
Just her luck, the show closed two months after she joined. Ms. Pedi said she wound up unemployed, weathering a winter of blizzards by apartment-sitting for her sister in Westchester. Then she got the call to do "Forbidden Broadway" in the Tiffany Theater in Hollywood in 1994. From there she went with the show to the Old Town Theater in San Diego, then to the Coronet Theater in Los Angeles. In early 1995 she began previews for "Forbidden Hollywood" in Los Angeles. Then "Forbidden Hollywood" came to New York. And finally in 1996 "Forbidden Broadway" came back, featuring Ms. Pedi. 
So who are her favorites? She said she liked playing her British characters: Judi Dench, Emma Thompson, Julie Andrews. The audience's favorite is Elaine Stritch ("You're so deadpan people think that you're dead"), and an ear nose and throat doctor recently told her she had a callus on her vocal chords to prove it. 
"It's all Elaine Stritch's fault," Ms. Pedi said.
As for Ms. Stritch herself, she has seen Ms. Pedi do her and said she accepted it graciously. "I felt I'd like to meet her," Ms. Stritch said. "First I'd slap her, then I'd talk to her about me. In that order." 
And how does Ms. Pedi prepare? Does she study videotapes of these performers, rewinding again and again to memorize their mannerisms? Does she listen to recordings over and over to perfect their intonations? 
"I just go to the theater," Ms. Pedi said, "and pay attention."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Three faces (out of dozens) of Christine Pedi: From left, as Judi Dench, as Marin Mazzie (spoofing "Kiss Me, Kate" with Tony Nation) and as Ethel Merman. She bakes cookies, too.; Christine Pedi, above, in her Manhattan apartment, and, below at right, as Mae West in the current edition of "Forbidden Broadway." After 10 years, she says she still loves the show. Besides, it's steady work. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1); With a capital P, and it stands for parody: Christine Pedi, right, in a lampoon of "The Music Man" in the current "Forbidden Broadway." (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FILM (78%); WRITERS (65%) THEATER 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN; PEDI, CHRISTINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: FORBIDDEN BROADWAY 2001: A SPOOF ODYSSEY (SHOW) 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



507 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Mir Deemed Triumph, Despite a 'Year in Hell' 

BYLINE:  By WARREN E. LEARY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
Like an aging movie star or a veteran baseball player who has gone past his prime, the Mir space station tends to be remembered for troubles in its declining years rather than the accomplishments of its earlier days.
 The Russian space station is scheduled to come down by the end of the week after 15 years of pioneering the concept of long-term human space flight. 
 The latest plans call for the 135-ton laboratory to incinerate in the atmosphere on Thursday or Friday after rocket firings bring it out of orbit, dumping tons of its remains in the South Pacific.
These days, the favorite adjectives for Mir seem to be decrepit, rickety, trouble-prone or aging; the common synonyms, "derelict," "rattletrap" or "orbiting junk pile." After years of showing the world how space flight can be done, Mir has an image shaped by latter-day problems, particularly those publicized in 1997 when every calamity seemed to befall the station. 
"Mir was a triumph that can be credited with many firsts in space," said James Oberg, a Houston-based expert on the Russian space program and former NASA engineer. "But what most people remember are the problems of 1997, one bad year out of 15."
During that year, Mir fell victim to its age and years of inadequate maintenance because of the Russian space program's shortage of money. The problems drew more attention than they normally would have, experts said, because they occurred while American astronauts were aboard the station as part of the cooperative Shuttle-Mir Program leading up to the new International Space Station project.
In 1997, referred to by some as Mir's "year in hell," an oxygen-generating canister ignited a hard-to-extinguish smoking fire. Later, a Progress supply ship testing new docking procedures crashed into the station, damaging and decompressing one of its six sections and endangering lives. Also that year, both of the station's oxygen-producing systems and its stabilizing gyroscopes failed and toxic antifreeze leaked into the spacecraft's atmosphere. Mir's main computer system also broke down, causing the station to drift several times, and there were several power failures.
Most of these problems were repaired, with American help and supplies, but Mir's reputation as a dilapidated station crippled by old age stuck.
Charles P. Vick, a space policy specialist with the Federation of American Scientists, said Mir would ultimately be remembered as a milestone in space exploration and the craft that showed long-term human habitation in space was possible. Russians rightly consider the station a symbol of their nation's leadership in space, Mr. Vick said.
"Mir is a major, major accomplishment of both the former Soviet Union and Russia," he said. "In many respects, it is an accomplishment on the level of the moon landing for the United States."
Russian pride continues to inspire calls to keep Mir aloft. But Yuri Koptev, head of the Russian Aviation and Space Agency, said the nation could not afford to maintain Mir and meet its obligations for the International Space Station.
During Mir's lifetime, Mr. Koptev said, Russia spent the equivalent of $4.2 billion to build and maintain the station. He said Mir's condition had deteriorated so much that astronauts were spending more than 80 percent of their time on repairs, leaving little time for research.
"The Mir has lived a wonderful life and must end it in a graceful way," Mr. Koptev said in endorsing the controlled deorbiting of the station.
A major part of the International Space Station, the $60 billion scientific outpost that a 16-nation consortium led by the United States is building in orbit, is the Russian service module, he said.
This segment, which provides living quarters and station control during the early stages of the project, is almost identical to the main section of the Mir and was built as the core of a planned Mir-2 craft.
"Many of the lessons of Mir are built into the new station, which literally has Mir-2 at its core," Mr. Vick said.
The Soviet Union launched the first segment of Mir, which was designed to last three to five years, on Feb. 20, 1986. Mir, named after a word that means both peace and world in Russian, housed 104 astronauts over 12 years and seven months, most of whom were not Russian. Mir became the first international space station by playing host to 62 people from 11 countries.
From 1995 through 1998, seven astronauts from the United States took turns living on Mir for up to six months each. They were among the 37 Americans who visited the station during nine stopovers by space shuttles.
The United States, which paid more than $400 million to Russia for the Mir visits, helped keep Mir operating, but the money also provided Americans and their partners in the international station project valuable experience in long-term flight and multinational operations.
A debate continues over Mir's contributions to science. During its existence, Mir was the laboratory for 23,000 experiments and carried scientific equipment, estimated to be worth $80 million, from many nations, according to a report in the March 9 issue of Science.
Experiments on Mir are credited with a variety of findings. For one, astronauts learned how to grow wheat in space. And, they made the first solid measurement of the ratio of heavy helium atoms in interstellar space. The measurement provides insight into the evolution of the universe.
Opponents of human space flight, who say satellites and robot spacecraft are the most economical way to collect data around Earth and beyond, say none of the scientific returns of manned missions justify the cost.
But for those favoring human space exploration, Mir showed that people could live and work in space long enough for a trip to Mars. Valery Polyakov set the record for a single stay in space, 437.7 days, arriving at Mir in 1994. Sergie Avdeyev accumulated 747.6 days in space in three trips to the space station. The longest American stay was that of Shannon Lucid, who spent 188 days aboard Mir in 1996.
While the Russians have learned much about human physiology in space, some Western scientists have complained that little of the material gathered has been has been published. They hope the more modern equipment and stringent standards of analysis for experiments on the new space station will yield more information about reactions of the human body to weightlessness and ways to combat deleterious effects.
Dr. Roald Z. Sagdeev, director of the East-West Space Science Center at the University of Maryland and a former Russian space researcher, said Mir's priorities were always as an engineering test bed. Even in the space station's early days, before maintenance took precedence, only 8 percent of the crew's time was dedicated to experiments, he said.
Mr. Oberg, the expert on the Russian space program, said Mir's greatest contributions include showing the world how to build, staff and maintain a space station, proving that humans can stay in space for an extended time apparently with no lasting ill effects and laying the groundwork for international space projects.
"Mir was a tremendous success, but it's time to move on to the next generation," he said. "The International Space Station will be better, but it owes a great debt to Mir."

GRAPHIC: Diagram Chart: "Lessons From Russia"After circling Earth for 15 years, the Mir space station is coming down, but not without yielding valuable knowledge that can be applied to the International Space Station. SOLAR ARRAYSBased on solar array research performed on Mir, NASA was better able to calculate and predict the performance of the arrays on the I.S.S. EQUIPMENT TRANSPORTNASA developed standards for racks, or transportable storage units, allowing for easy loading and unloading of hardware. SPACE WALKSThe need for stable and maneuverable work surfaces on Mir prompted NASA designers to create a swiveling foot platform, capable of being carried and positioned in locations throughout the I.S.S.(Source: NASA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACECRAFT (92%); SPACE STATIONS (92%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); BASEBALL (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (78%); AEROSPACE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); POWER FAILURES (64%) SPACE; MIR (SPACE STATION); SPACE STATIONS 

PERSON: LEARY, WARREN E; VICK, CHARLES P 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



508 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 THE YEN SLIDES. The yen fell on expectations that the Bank of Japan's decision to cut interest rates close to zero will not immediately lift the economy. In New York, the dollar settled at 123.03 yen, up from 122.82 yen.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Japanese yen to the dollar, since September 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (87%); TRENDS (82%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (72%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



509 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Rights Chief At U.N. Says She'll Leave In September 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, March 19 

 BODY:
Mary Robinson, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, said today that she would leave the job when her term ends in September and carry on the fight for human rights without the "constraints" that the United Nations imposes.
 In a surprise announcement to the opening session of the annual meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Commission in Geneva, Mrs. Robinson, 56, a former president of Ireland, said she would not seek reappointment when her term ends just after an international conference on racism. 
 That meeting, to be held in South Africa, is already surrounded by disputes, adding to problems that Mrs. Robinson has accumulated in dealing with crises as diverse as East Timor, Tibet and the Middle East. 
Early in her term, Mrs. Robinson, a human rights lawyer, began to feel pressure and engender criticism from governments and independent human rights organizations -- placing her in a damned-if-you-do, damned-if-you-don't position on many issues. She tried to steer a course between advocacy for the abused and respect for the sovereignty of governments.
Among the governments that criticized her was Russia, which in the General Assembly debate last year criticized her for outspoken comments on the situation in Chechnya. 
The executive director of Human Rights Watch in New York, Kenneth Roth, said in an interview that Mrs. Robinson's announcement had caught everyone off guard, being made in the week when Secretary General Kofi Annan is widely expected to announce whether he will seek a second term. Mrs. Robinson was among the first high-profile appointments Mr. Annan made as he tried to strengthen the power of the United Nations and its many branch offices.
"She vastly increased the profile of the position and demonstrated its enormous possibilities," Mr. Roth said. "I think she always struggled between her desire to maintain good diplomatic relationships with governments and the need to sometimes offend in the interest of protecting human rights. Often she made enemies both among governments that were receiving her criticism and human rights groups that hoped that she would do more.
"The tremendous challenge now faces by Kofi Annan is to find a replacement of her stature and her commitment to human rights. It was an act of courage on his part to name her in the first place."
Mrs. Robinson said today that Mr. Annan had advised her to "stay an outsider." She often was so independent that there were reports that she and secretary general were not always on the best of terms. "I have at times been an awkward voice, even on occasion for my colleagues within the U.N.," she said.
Mr. Annan said he heard of her decision today "with great regret." He said she had taken over an embryonic office and given it stature. "She has made a critical contribution to giving human rights a central role in the United Nations system," he said. 
Mrs. Robinson is the second person to hold the job of human rights commissioner, after Jose Ayala Lasso of Ecuador. The General Assembly created the post in 1993 after an international human rights conference in Vienna.
The high commissioner's role was very low profile when she arrived. She found herself burdened by a shortage of money to operate the Geneva office. A former top aide said that when she took the job she was disappointed in her staff. The budget improved measurably through her fund raising. But administrative weaknesses in the office continued. 
"I know some will feel that I should have sought to continue working from within the U.N., and I ask them to respect my decision," she said. "I will continue to work wholeheartedly for human rights in the way that I know best, as an advocate. I believe that I can at this stage achieve more outside the constraints that a multilateral organization inevitably imposes."
Mrs. Robinson brought to the appointment a strong record of advocacy in a career as a lawyer. She said in interviews that as a citizen of Ireland, which has suffered poverty and oppression under the English, she understood the problems of the developing world, still dealing with the effects of colonialism. She argued repeatedly that economic and social rights were also human rights. 
She had advocated closure on the colonial era, and with it the Atlantic slave trade at the racism conference that began on Aug. 31 in Durban. That drew criticism from industrial nations, as well as a few African leaders, who said the conference should be looking forward rather than backward to find ways to help the poorest nations now.
Most recently, Mrs. Robinson provoked outcries among women when she deferred to Iran and agreed that all women at a meeting on racism in Tehran had to cover their heads. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (94%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); RACE & RACISM (70%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (84%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (55%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: ROBINSON, MARY (COMR); CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (56%) SWITZERLAND (90%); TIMOR-LESTE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TIBET (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRELAND (72%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); CHINA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



510 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS; 
Shares Gain After Losses; Investors Await Fed Action

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
After a week of steep losses, stocks rose yesterday as investors awaited the Federal Reserve's expected move to reduce interest rates.
 Companies that would benefit most directly from lower interest rates and those that have been punished of late led a late rally. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 135.70 points, or 1.4 percent, to 9,959.11, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 20.28 points, or 1.8 percent, to 1,170.81. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index gained 60.27 points, or 3.2 percent, to 1,951.18. 
The Fed's policy makers, who are scheduled to meet today, have already lowered short-term interest rates a full percentage point this year, and economists and market analysts expect the central bank to lower rates at least an additional half-point. Many investors and money managers are hoping the Fed will act more aggressively and cut short-term rates by three-quarters of a point.
While the Fed is about to answer one of Wall Street's most pressing questions, other uncertainties will remain, said Francis Gannon, senior equity portfolio manager for SunAmerica Asset Management. "Economic data points are telling us that things are not that bad," Mr. Gannon said. But even if the Fed aims a new rate cut at the stock market, "the earnings picture is going to remain very cloudy for a few quarters."
The Fed considers a full roster of economic data, and several economists said it would seek to avoid leaving the impression that its moves were dictated by the stock market alone, even though the United States economy has become closely tied to the market.
Still, "they've got to be concerned about a sharply negative reaction, particularly in the equity markets, to anything less" than a three-quarter-point cut," said Peter Hooper, chief domestic economist at Deutsche Bank North America.
Regardless of the size of a rate cut, "it still has to be good for the cyclical parts of the economy," said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer for Wells Capital Management.
The Morgan Stanley cyclicals index, which includes companies that rely on an easy climate for financing, gained 13.20 points, or 2.6 percent, to 513.92. Several of its components, including Alcoa, Honeywell and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, are also components of the Dow, and those issues posted solid gains.
Despite the rally in cyclical stocks and the widespread belief that a rate cut is imminent, a sort of uneasy calm, measurable in somewhat thin trading volume, fell over Wall Street. Last week, the Dow had its worst weekly decline in more than 11 years, pushing it below the 10,000 mark, and the S.& P. 500 entered a bear market, generally defined as a 20 percent decline from its peak.
The market seemed shaken by "the full velocity of negativism, with every paper in the world talking about the bear market," said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist for SG Cowen.
"Many people who didn't play the game, very conservative investors, they start to nibble on the edges, and that's all you need on a day like today," he said.
Consider Ariba, a technology stock that gained more than 11 percent for no discernible reason aside from so-called bargain-hunting, Mr. Pradilla said. The shares are off a 52-week high of $173.50 and closed yesterday at $11.38, up $1.19.
Like-minded investors bought Qualcomm, which rose $7.88, or 15.7 percent, to $58.19; JDS Uniphase, which climbed $2.19, or 9.8 percent, to $24.63; and Oracle, which gained $1.38, or 9.8 percent, to $15.44.
The stock market's big losses last week occurred after months of corporate profit warnings and layoff announcements, complemented by economic reports detailing slowed production and rising inventory backlogs. Inflation, though, has been limited, and consumer confidence has not fallen as sharply as economists had expected.
Investors broadened their fears last week, pondering a slowdown that could extend past the technology sector into many older industries and past the United States into the world. Agricultural difficulties and a banking slowdown in Europe drew new scrutiny from Wall Street. So did Japan's deflating currency and its banks, which are heavily laden with bad debt.
Some stocks rose yesterday despite making negative announcements. Corning, for example, gained $2.02, to $25.20, even though the No. 1 maker of fiber optic cable said its profits this year were likely to fall below estimates.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); SUNAMERICA ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); 3M CO (51%); ALCOA INC (51%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (52%); MMM (SWX) (51%); MMM (NYSE) (51%); MMM (FRA) (51%); AAI (ASX) (51%); AA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (51%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (51%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (51%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (51%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



511 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Public Interests; 
Anxious In Alabama

BYLINE:  By GAIL COLLINS 

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 

 BODY:
The statue of Vulcan that normally looms over the city, commemorating its steel-making history, is lying in pieces now, undergoing a $1.5 million federally funded makeover. This project always comes up in Washington whenever somebody wants to complain about pork-barrel projects.
 Peculiarly, the pile of very large body parts includes three legs. "We paid for an extra foot?" demanded Ed Chism of Tuscaloosa, as he peered at the pieces at Vulcan Park. 
 I'm O.K. with helping to repair Vulcan, which happens to be the second-largest statue in the United States. The Statue of Liberty might be bigger, but unlike Vulcan it was made abroad and does not hold a huge flashlight that beams red whenever the city suffers a traffic fatality.
Anyway, if Alabama government had to pay the tab, Vulcan would probably be one limb short. These people do not like to spend money.
I came down here to watch what happens in a state when the national economy turns south. Alabama is an excellent place to study, since its tax receipts are plummeting and its government is second to none in its inability to handle a crisis.
When the economy started to slow down, tax revenues dropped and the Constitution required the governor to cut back funding for education in the middle of the school year. The K-to-12 schools and the colleges and universities are now at each other's throats over who gets the biggest hit. This state, which once led the nation in its ability to pit white workers against black workers in the factories, is now turning third-grade reading teachers against medieval history professors. 
One superintendent of schools, in a desperate attempt to get his community to cough up some local money for education, is threatening to cancel football. This is regarded as insanity, a word that nobody seems to apply to the fact that a state where only 16 percent of the public has college degrees is thinking about eliminating almost a quarter of the higher education funding for the second half of the year.
One really useful lesson in all this is that state constitutions are actually important. Alabama's was written a century ago, at the behest of the big agricultural landowners and steel-mill barons. Their political theory -- so elegant in its simplicity -- was that taxes on plantations and factories were undesirable.
This state also demonstrates the harm that politicians do when they encourage people to believe they're wildly overtaxed when they aren't. David Bronner, the head of Alabama's state pension funds, enjoys shocking Alabama citizens by telling them they pay $500 million less annually than the citizens of Mississippi.
"This is the most screwed-up tax system in America, bar none," said Mr. Bronner cheerfully. There's virtually no property tax, and the state is run mainly on receipts from an 8-to-9-percent sales tax. Sales taxes are unpredictable and they hit poor people hardest. Alabama has thoughtfully made its system worse through a series of exemptions, so that it taxes food, baby formula, diapers and shoes, but not haircuts, baby-cow formula, fertilizer or coffins. 
Everybody was very excited the other day when Senator Richard Shelby, the main man in Alabama Republican politics, gave a speech in which he suggested that the state raise the money for the schools by eliminating those sales tax exemptions for cars and coffins and combines and whatnot. "I had written a little piece for our newsletter, praising him for being bold and everything," said Paul Hubbert, the executive director of the Alabama Education Association.
Mr. Hubbert, who is one of the most powerful men in the Capitol, says education lobbyists approached Mr. Shelby about joining a bipartisan united front for tax reform and quality education. If everybody stood together, Mr. Hubbert claims, the Democratic governor and legislative leaders were ready to hold hands and take the heat.
Mr. Shelby's office says it doesn't know anything about such an overture. But anyway, the senator says the state tax structure isn't really his problem since he's a big-picture kind of guy.
Mr. Hubbert wrote a new article attacking Senator Shelby for chickening out. This is not entirely fair. The senator can be very forceful on some matters, such as federal support for the statue of Vulcan. "I will never apologize for my efforts to support worthy projects that improve Alabama," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (86%); HISTORY (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); TRENDS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (65%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (65%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION 

PERSON: COLLINS, GAIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: TUSCALOOSA, AL, USA (92%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (77%) ALABAMA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) ALABAMA

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



512 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS; 
Treasury Issues Dip on Profit Taking as Rate Move Is Awaited

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday as investors took profits and the market awaited the Federal Reserve's decision on interest rates today.
 The Fed is expected to cut interest rates again, but the size of the reduction -- whether it will be half a percentage point or three quarters -- is still uncertain. 
 Last week's stock market decline, fueled by fears about America's slowing economy, Japan's fragile economic outlook and United States corporate profit warnings, sparked talk the Federal Reserve would need a more aggressive cut to bolster growth. 
But an unexpected upturn in consumer confidence and Wall Street's ability to stop heftier losses yesterday, convinced some investors the Fed would cut its 5.50 percent federal funds rate a half percentage point for the third time this year.
"The market will certainly be long going into the Fed meeting but people are sailing closer to shore in order not to be caught off guard just in case the Fed decides to cut only half a percentage point," said Brian Robinson, senior bond analyst at 4Cast. Last week, the Treasury market had rallied, driving yields to two-year lows amid talk of a three-quarter-point cut.
Yesterday, futures contracts traded on the federal funds rate indicated a roughly 56 percent chance of a three-quarter point cut, down from about 74 percent on Friday.
While the debate raged over how big the cut would be, traders and analysts said activity was relatively sluggish.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 13/32 , to a price of 101 15/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.81 percent from 4.76 percent on Friday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 11/32 , to 10 19/32 . The bond's yield rose to 5.29 percent from 5.27 percent on Friday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 3-month and 6-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice98.89597.867High Rate4.37%4.22%Investment Rate4.48%4.37%Low Rate4.32%4.15%Median Rate4.34%4.18%Total applied $28for,714,425$22,005,976$15Accepted,067,924$11,854,976$1Noncompetitive,379,439$1,189,835

Both issues are dated March 22, 2001. The three-month bills mature on June 21, 2001, and the six-month bills mature on Sept. 20, 2001.

Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate at weekly auction from November-March. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); BONDS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



513 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine's Tribulations 

 BODY:
Last November a farmer in Ukraine found the headless body of Georgy Gongadze, an Internet journalist who had accused President Leonid Kuchma of corruption. A few weeks later Mr. Kuchma's former bodyguard released tapes made before Mr. Gongadze's death that allegedly feature Mr. Kuchma discussing various ways to get rid of the journalist, including having him kidnapped. The tapes also include discussions from 1999 between Mr. Kuchma and his aides about using the prosecutor, militia and tax inspector to pressure journalists and the managers of state farms and factories to help re-elect him in November of that year. Mr. Kuchma charges that the Gongadze tape was electronically doctored, and he seems likely to survive the political crisis that has resulted. But the scandal has provided a glimpse of the abuses of power and corruption that have stunted Ukraine's development as an independent nation. 
 When the Soviet Union collapsed, Ukraine seemed like a candidate for success, with a well-educated work force and a border with Eastern Europe. The country made an enlightened decision to destroy its stocks of nuclear weapons. While Ukraine has cultural and historic ties to Russia, many Ukrainians are more oriented toward their European neighbors to the west. 
 But Ukraine's progress has been crippled by the kind of political manipulation allegedly revealed by the tapes. Until very recently, the economy was contracting by more than 10 percent a year. Corruption blocked investment and economic reform. Power and money rule the courts.
Lately there has been some progress. A group of responsible officials, led by the young prime minister, Viktor Yushchenko, has been able to pass some reforms. Yulia Timoshenko, until recently the energy minister, cleaned up the corrupt energy sector, allowing the government to collect taxes there for the first time. The reforms, and an economic upswing in Russia, allowed the economy to grow last year.
The tapes scandal could have some positive consequences. It has led to the first independent television coverage by news programs that Mr. Kuchma controls, and the first sustained street demonstrations for democratization and civil liberties. But Ukraine's reformers still face daunting obstacles. Mr. Kuchma rules as an autocrat. He fired Ms. Timoshenko, and after she joined an opposition political bloc she was arrested on charges of corruption. An investigation of the Gongadze killing by an official under Mr. Kuchma's control is, unsurprisingly, stalled -- although Mr. Kuchma recently accepted help from the American F.B.I. 
Because Mr. Kuchma's main opposition figures have been former Communists, the West has handled him gingerly. Washington has been appropriately critical during the tapes scandal, but should do more to press Mr. Kuchma for a full investigation of Mr. Gongadze's murder. Mr. Kuchma is nominally pro-Western. But his authoritarianism has done much to keep his nation from becoming a modern European state. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ETHICS (78%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); ARRESTS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (65%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (61%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); MURDER (58%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (54%) EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS 

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (58%) KUCHMA, LEONID (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UKRAINE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) UKRAINE

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



514 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Trustees Extend Solvency Estimates for 2 Benefits 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
The government announced today that the principal Medicare trust fund would not run out of money until 2029, the longest period of solvency ever projected in the history of the program. And officials extended the life of the Social Security trust fund by one year, to 2038.
 The projected date of insolvency for the Medicare trust fund is four years later than the estimate made by the Clinton administration 12 months ago. 
 But the Bush administration said the long-term financial outlook for Medicare was bleak because health costs were rising rapidly. And it said Congress still needed to make major changes in Social Security to prepare for the retirement of 76 million baby boomers. 
The improvement in the condition of Medicare's Hospital Insurance Trust Fund surprised experts on the program. They had predicted that the trust fund would be depleted a few years earlier because Congress recently increased Medicare payments to health care providers, while economists have increased long-term estimates of health costs.
Unveiling the annual report on Social Security and Medicare, President Bush and members of his cabinet took what appeared to be good news and made it sound like bad news. 
Mr. Bush said the report underlined the need for Congressional action to strengthen Social Security and Medicare. "We have only so many years to get the systems back on track," he told Hispanic business leaders meeting at the White House. "It's time to quit the posturing and time to reform the systems."
Moreover, Mr. Bush said, "part of the Social Security reform must include allowing younger workers the option to take some of their own money and put it in the private markets, under safe conditions."
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, a trustee of the two programs, refused to say how the recent plunge in stock prices might affect the administration's effort to let workers divert some of their payroll taxes into private savings accounts.
"When you're dealing with 75-year estimates and actuarial science," Mr. O'Neill said, "what's going on in the market today almost doesn't matter."
Mr. O'Neill said the fact that Medicare's hospital trust fund would last four years longer than previously believed was no "excuse for complacency."
Independent trustees of the Medicare program agreed, noting that Medicare spending would more than double in 10 years.
Democrats rejoiced at the new estimate for Medicare. They said it showed that Congress could add prescription drug benefits without making radical changes in the structure of the Medicare program, which provides health care to 39 million people who are elderly or disabled.
The annual report on Social Security and Medicare is issued by a board of six trustees. Four of the six are federal officials, and two are scholars who represent the public.
In their report on Medicare, the trustees said, "The Hospital Insurance Trust Fund is estimated to be depleted in 2029 -- a significant improvement over last year's estimate of 2025."
The new date reflects both "stronger-than-expected economic growth and lower-than-expected program costs," the trustees said.
Robust economic growth for most of last year led to an increase in payroll tax revenues, the main source of income for the hospital trust fund.
Medicare spent less than expected last year because of "slow increases in health care costs generally, continuing efforts to combat fraud and abuse in the Medicare program," a reduction in the use of nursing homes and a reduction in the average severity and complexity of illness for hospital patients, the report said.
The trustees sharply increased their estimate of the long-term growth in health costs, as recommended by a panel of outside experts.
They also expressed concern that Medicare costs were growing faster than the economy as a whole. Medicare, taken as a whole, now accounts for 2.2 percent of the gross domestic product. This figure is expected to rise to 5 percent in 2035 and 8.5 percent in 2075.
The balance in Medicare's hospital trust fund is growing steadily and is expected to reach $650 billion at the end of 2010, up from $177.5 billion at the end of last year, the trustees said.
The assets of the Social Security trust fund are expected to reach $3.4 trillion at the end of 2010, up from $1 trillion at the end of last year.
Total income to the hospital trust fund exceeded spending last year by $36 billion, while income to the Social Security trust fund exceeded outlays by $153 billion. 
William A. Halter, the acting commissioner of Social Security, said, "In the last four years, we have added nine years to the life of the Social Security trust fund." In 1996 and 1997, the Clinton administration estimated that the fund would be exhausted in 2029.
Congress and the Clinton administration, working together, rescued Medicare's hospital trust fund from the brink of bankruptcy. In 1993, when Bill Clinton became president, the trust fund was expected to run out of money in 1999. Congress put off the depletion date by continually tinkering with the program, by trimming payments to health care providers and by shifting costs from one part of the program to another -- a measure denounced by many Republicans as an accounting gimmick.
In his budget blueprint last month, President Bush sounded an alarm about Medicare's financial condition, insisting that "there is no Medicare surplus" when the hospital trust fund is viewed together with a separate account used to pay doctors' bills.
Representative Pete Stark of California, the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, said today's report showed that Republicans had overstated Medicare's problems. "The trustees' report makes clear that Republican claims about Medicare's so-called financing crisis are simply an excuse to raid the Medicare surplus to pay for tax breaks for the wealthy," Mr. Stark said.
But Representative Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who is chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, said, "The day of reckoning is fast approaching." While the hospital trust fund will not be exhausted until 2029, he said, it will spend more than it receives in tax revenues starting in 2016.
The outlook for both programs depends on many economic variables, including the productivity of American workers. In general, as productivity rises, so do the average earnings of workers. The Social Security trustees assume that productivity will grow more slowly in coming years than it has in the last few years. Some economists say the economic assumptions are so conservative that they make the problems of Social Security seem worse than they are.
The part of Medicare that pays doctors' bills and other outpatient expenses never runs out of money because it is financed with beneficiaries' premiums and general revenue contributions, which are set each year to meet the expected costs.
But the trustees expressed "great concern" about this part of the program, saying it would grow faster than spending from the hospital trust fund and could consume a steadily growing share of income taxes: 5.4 percent last year, 13 percent in 2030, 22 percent in 2070.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "An Improved Outlook"The trustees of Social Security and Medicare estimated that Medicare's hospital trust fund would run out of money in 28 years, the longest period of projected solvency in the program's history. Chart shows year of projection, projected year of insolvency and number of years until projected insolvency for Medicare Hospital Trust Fund and Social Security Trust Fund.(Source: Social Security Administration; Department of Health and Human Services) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (94%); SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (72%); BABY BOOMERS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (65%); CORPORATE TAX (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICARE 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



515 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: In Albany, Budget Plans For Education Differ Sharply 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 19 

 BODY:
Leaders of the State Assembly and Senate unveiled dueling budget wish lists this afternoon, highlighted by sharply divergent numbers on aid to education.
 First, the Assembly Democrats proposed increasing education aid by $1.7 billion a year for the next two years. Minutes later, scoffing at the Democrats' figures as irresponsible at a time of economic uncertainty, the Senate Republicans proposed slightly more than half that amount, urging an increase of $925 million for the next year. 
 "We have to be prudent, we have to be responsible," the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, told reporters this afternoon. "We are going to have one heck of a time, given what we're seeing so far already coming from the other house, trying to negotiate a budget in any sensible way this year." 
Mr. Bruno said he would set aside $4.4 billion in reserve to handle budget shortfalls should the economy sour. He also proposed a $1.8 billion package of tax cuts, chiefly for economic development zones, and $500 million in incentives for the biotechnology industry.
The Senate Republicans' budget mirrors much of what the Republican governor, George E. Pataki, proposed earlier this year, but there are some important differences. The Senate's proposed reserve fund is three times the $1.4 billion that the governor would set aside, and its education budget plan is more than double the $382 million increase proposed by Mr. Pataki.
Education financing is among the thorniest issues this year, as it comes against the backdrop of a judge's ruling that ordered a major increase in spending on New York City schools to provide a "sound, basic education."
State and city education officials applauded the Assembly's proposed budget today, calling it a wise investment toward meeting the court order. "Obviously, given the huge state surplus this year, you want to be able to make a down payment right now," said Stephen Allinger, the New York City school system's lobbyist. "It makes no sense to not take advantage of the prosperity."
The State Board of Regents, the policy-making body for the Education Department, has called for a $1.45 billion increase in school aid. The Assembly budget proposal actually exceeds that amount. The Assembly would also allocate money for the next two years, instead of one. Mr. Bruno flatly rejected that idea. "We're not even going to contemplate or think about that," he said.
The governor has already said he will appeal the judge's ruling, and Mr. Bruno has echoed his call. Today, Senate Republicans maintained that their budget proposal would comply with the judge's order. Like the Assembly proposal, theirs would channel 70 percent of the increased school aid to high-need school districts. Both their formulas would send about 37 percent of state education money to New York City, which has about 37 percent of the state's schoolchildren.
The Assembly proposal would restore $660 million to hire teachers in an effort to lower class size and expand prekindergarten classes. The Assembly budget also includes a new plan to recruit teachers to high-need schools by offering housing subsidies in the districts where they teach. "It addresses the need for equity," the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, said this afternoon. "It keeps the promise of smaller class size and universal pre-K."
Even by the standards of Albany, the budget negotiations are late this year. By state law, the two houses of the Legislature are supposed to come to an agreement by March 10 on how much money the state is estimated to generate in revenues. The Legislature has already missed that deadline. The Assembly and Senate revenue estimates vary widely, with Republicans expressing grave concerns about the extent of the economic downturn and Democrats slightly more optimistic about the potential for economic growth.
"This is the latest start I've experienced in the past six years," Mr. Bruno said. "There's a huge difference of opinion as to what's happening out there in the economy." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (87%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (87%); JUDGES (86%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (53%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



516 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
Uncluttering The Airspace At La Guardia

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
A YEAR after Congress went to the aid of airline passengers, a painful truth has emerged at La Guardia Airport: two airplanes cannot use the same runway at the same time. 
 This has come as a blow to the politicians determined to guarantee the constitutional right of every American to fly nonstop to an airport convenient to Midtown Manhattan. This right was deemed so important that Congress lifted the daily limit on flights at La Guardia so that small planes could arrive from places that were "underserved" (meaning they were in the politicians' home districts). 
 The result has been satisfying for some people, notably upstaters. If you have a frequent craving to fly nonstop from Ithaca to La Guardia, you've had your choice of five daily flights on a 37-seat turboprop plane. But since politicians did not provide new runways, La Guardia has become infamous for the nation's longest flight delays. 
The airport's managers have declared an emergency moratorium on new flights and are contemplating permanent limitations. The easy part of their job is figuring out how many planes per hour can land and take off. The hard part is deciding which planes get those slots.
If you value efficiency, you could allot the slots through an auction. Instead of the current system, in which planes are charged simply by weight, and in which a flight at 9 a.m. costs an airline the same as one at 11 p.m., you could make airlines and private pilots bid for each takeoff and landing slot.
The auction would force airlines to pay more for slots at the most popular times, lessening the temptation for them all to schedule flights at rush hours. The auction would probably banish the small planes now serving places like Ithaca, because 37 passengers on a turboprop couldn't afford to pay as much for the slot as 150 passengers on a Boeing 737. 
The auction would also banish the corporate jets that now pay a relative pittance to use La Guardia. Thanks to the power of their lobby in Washington, private-plane owners are guaranteed 6 of the 75 slots allotted each hour at La Guardia. That means that every hour, a dozen or two executives in corporate planes can use up the slots of six jets that could be carrying 1,000 passengers. And because the airport fees are set according to the weight of the plane, the private planes, like the small turboprops, are paying much less than big jets would be charged. 
WHILE a small plane pays less for the privilege of using the airport, it can actually take up extra time taking off and landing. That's because it flies relatively slowly, and it needs extra airspace when there's a large jet in front of it. Because the small plane is vulnerable to turbulence in the jet's wake, it might have to wait until the jet is four or five miles away before taking off.
An auction of slots would mean more big planes carrying more passengers, but would they all be from the same few airlines? Some economists, including Alfred E. Kahn, the architect of airline deregulation, fear that major carriers would buy up all the slots to protect themselves against upstart competitors. To maintain competition, Mr. Kahn said, an auction should be accompanied by vigorous antitrust enforcement against the major airlines. Another alternative, he said, would be for Congress to limit any single airline to no more than, say, a quarter of the slots at La Guardia.
The biggest problem with an auction would be political: how to tell voters upstate and elsewhere that they're not entitled to lots of nonstop flights to La Guardia. Even politicians calling for a limit on flights at La Guardia, like Senator Charles E. Schumer, are not suggesting that their constituents be grounded. Not many upstaters share the sentiments of Mr. Kahn, a professor emeritus at Cornell University, in Ithaca.
"With an auction, I'm sure our nonstop flights from Ithaca to La Guardia would disappear," Mr. Kahn said. "But they're a very inefficient use of a scarce resource. If there are other people willing to pay more to use La Guardia, let them have the slots. Maybe I'll have to fly through Pittsburgh to reach New York. Worse things have happened."
Convenient airplane flights are not a fundamental human right. They're a perk of living in a densely populated place, a compensation for the high prices and other deprivations of city life. "People who want to live in a rural, comparatively isolated community have to realize that it may be harder for them to see Broadway plays," Mr. Kahn said. "They have fresh air instead." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); AUCTIONS (87%); LOBBYING (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR SERVICE (76%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LA GUARDIA AIRPORT (NYC); DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); AUCTIONS; AIRPORTS 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



517 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Stocks Rise as Investors Await Rate Cut From Fed
After a week of steep losses, stocks rose as investors awaited the Federal Reserve's expected move to reduce interest rates. The Fed's policy makers, who are scheduled to meet today, have already lowered short-term interest rates a full percentage point this year, and economists and market analysts expect them to lower rates at least an additional half-point.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 135.70 points, or 1.4 percent, to 9,959.11, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 20.28 points, or 1.8 percent, to 1,170.81. The Nasdaq composite index gained 60.27 points, or 3.2 percent, to 1,951.18. Page C9. 

Bank of Japan Reverses Policy
Japan's central bank changed course sharply in the struggle to revive the stagnant Japanese economy. The bank said it would try to stimulate consumer and business spending by pumping money into the banking system, by effectively cutting short-term interest rates essentially to zero and promising to keep borrowing costs negligible. In Washington, where President Bush was meeting with Japan's prime minister, Yoshiro Mori, officials at the Treasury and the White House were relieved by the bank's decision. A1.

The leaders ended their meeting with only a vague commitment by Japan to deal with bad loans and corporate debt. C2.

Energy Official Sees a Crisis
Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said that the nation faced an "energy supply crisis" akin to the oil embargoes of the 1970's and indicated that the Bush administration intended to overhaul rules to ease fuel exploration and help energy production and distribution. A16.

A heat wave combined with the sudden failure of two large power generators prompted hours of rotating blackouts in California. A1.

Drug Wholesalers Agree to Merge
AmeriSource Health and Bergen Brunswig, the nation's third- and fourth-largest drug wholesalers, agreed to merge in a $2.4 billion stock deal. Market Place. C8.

Drug Maker Corixa Hits Roadblock
Corixa, which is racing to bring to market the first drug that delivers radiation directly to cancer cells, has hit a roadblock. The company said that the Food and Drug Administration has asked for more information about the drug's safety and effectiveness. The action is expected to delay approval for Corixa's drug for at least nine months and could allow a rival, Idec Pharmaceuticals, to reach the market first. Corixa's shares fell $1.56, to $9.50, while Idec shares rose $4.38, to $52.50. C4.

23 Opt Out of Coke Bias Settlement
A settlement of a class-action lawsuit that accused Coca-Cola of racial discrimination cleared a potential hurdle when only 23 members of the class chose to opt out. C7.

Microsoft Confronts Privacy Fears
Microsoft tried to defuse privacy and security concerns about its new .Net Internet strategy by saying the new technology would let computer users control how much personal data they make available for commercial use. C4.

Rig Blasts Add to Petrobas Woes
With its largest offshore oil platform still listing after a series of deadly explosions, Brazil's state-owned oil company, Petrobras, is struggling to ease the damage to its bottom line and reputation. World Business, Section W.

Australians Hail Mining Merger
Investors and analysts in Australia reacted jubilantly to the proposed merger of BHP and Billiton of Britain, driving shares of BHP up sharply. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,959.11 up 135.70Nasdaq composite -- 1,951.18 up 60.2710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.81% up 0.05The euro -- $0.8985 up 0.0027The dollar -- 123.03 yen up 0.21 Graph: "TODAY" shows balance of trade figures from July-December 2000.January figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -$33.0 billion Graph shows Corixa share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); WHOLESALERS (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (88%); MERGERS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); APPROVALS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); LITIGATION (70%); POWER FAILURES (69%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); CANCER (67%); DRUG SAFETY (67%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); RACE & RACISM (60%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%); DISCRIMINATION (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (82%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (82%); BANK OF JAPAN (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); COCA-COLA CO (50%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (82%); GSK (LSE) (82%); BIOC (EGX) (82%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (82%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); KO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (82%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



518 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: GULF ARAB STATES PREPARE A BAILOUT TO ASSIST ARAFAT 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, March 19 

 BODY:
Persian Gulf oil states are tossing a lifeline to the financially foundering Palestinian Authority in the form of a $300 million aid package. This will make Arab donors the Authority's chief source of budgetary support for the first time.
 Under a plan devised with the support of the International Monetary Fund and endorsed by Arab League finance ministers, the Islamic Development Bank is preparing to provide up to $40 million a month for six months from a new "intifada fund," Palestinian officials and foreign diplomats say. 
 Most of the money is coming from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, countries that until recently refused to provide direct aid to Yasir Arafat's semiautonomous government. The European Union and the United States have been the biggest donors until now. 
The six months of payments are in addition to the unpublicized transfer of $80 million in Arab grants and loans to the Authority since December, exceeding the $65 million it received from European governments. 
The Authority administers the Palestinian-controlled areas of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, running schools, hospitals and security forces.
Its revenues have been slashed by the current conflict with Israel -- a crisis that has halved Palestinian incomes, tripled unemployment and fueled popular anger not just at Israel but at the Authority itself. Without new financial support, American diplomats and United Nations envoys have warned in recent weeks, the Authority faces imminent bankruptcy.
"The Palestinian economy is on the brink of collapse, and the Palestinian Authority is beginning to disintegrate," Martin Indyk, the American ambassador to Israel, told business leaders in Tel Aviv this month.
Ultimately the political symbolism of this new Arab support could be as meaningful as the economic impact, Palestinian officials say. Egypt aside, most major Arab states have kept their distance from the Palestinian Authority, even while they have professed support for the Palestinian cause.
The Persian Gulf states were bitterly resentful of Mr. Arafat's support for Iraq during the 1991 gulf war. Kuwait, whose occupation by Iraq precipitated the war, responded afterward by expelling hundreds of thousands of Palestinian residents.
Iraq, like Syria and Libya, disdained the Authority as the misbegotten offspring of the 1993 Israeli-Palestinian peace pact, which it implacably opposed. European governments -- with the support of the United States and, more ambivalently, Israel -- unsuccessfully urged Arab states to share more of the aid burden.
But with the intense pro-Palestinian sentiment aroused in the Arab world by five months of violent confrontations with Israel, and growing concern over the potential impact of the conflict, the Arab consensus has suddenly changed, and the Authority is the beneficiary.
"The argument is straightforward," said one Palestinian participant in aid discussions with Arab leaders. "You cannot help the Palestinians economically while ignoring the central Palestinian institution, the biggest employer, the main provider of social services."
Now, he added, the wealthy Arab states will have "an investment" in the Authority for the first time. For Mr. Arafat, the aid provides an institutional lease on life while reducing his dependence on Western Europe and the United States.
Washington, barred by Congress from giving aid directly to the Authority, gave $57 million in January to Palestinian social programs.
"We now have the full support of the Arab countries," Muhammad Nashashibi, the Palestinian finance minister, said in an interview.
Still, he suggested, the Arab states could do more: $1 billion in aid would represent just 2 percent of the Arab countries' annual earnings from their investments abroad, he asserted.
Today a senior aide to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said the Israeli government welcomed Arab and European aid for Palestinian social services but strongly objected to budgetary support for the Palestinian leadership and its security services.
"If the money goes to improve the welfare of the Palestinian people, we have no objection," said the aide, Ranaan Gissin. "But if it goes to pay the salaries of the people who shoot at us, it would be counterproductive."
The expected new Arab cash infusion will not revive Palestinian trade or put the jobless back to work, the architects of the plan acknowledge. But combined with smaller European Union grants and loans and tax revenue collected and currently withheld by Israel, it should be enough to keep schools and hospitals open and pay most government salaries.
Israel is under strong pressure from Washington and the Europeans to release $75 million in tax revenues that it has retained arguing that the money would indirectly underwrite terrorism.
"All we are doing is buying time," said a Palestinian economist involved in the negotiations with Arab finance ministers. "But time is very valuable right now to us, and also to the Israelis."
The six-month aid plan is expected to be formally endorsed at an Arab League summit meeting in Amman, Jordan, on March 27, even though many Arab leaders remain wary of Mr. Arafat and some worry that Arab aid might ease pressure on Israel to release Palestinian funds.
"It would be very difficult for the Arab League to back down from what has become a very public commitment to giving support to the Palestinian Authority," said a Western diplomat.
Some Arab states and wealthy individuals began giving aid almost immediately after the current Palestinian uprising -- "intifada" in Arabic -- began in late September. But that money was channeled directly to needy individuals and private charities, deliberately bypassing the Authority. The most publicized example was payments of $10,000 by President Saddam Hussein of Iraq to families of people killed in the uprising.
More worrisome to Palestinian officials, though, are the millions in private Saudi dollars discreetly channeled to families of the dead or wounded through local Islamic foundations said by Western diplomats to be linked to the militant Hamas organization, which opposes Mr. Arafat's authority.
In Gaza City, for example, nearly every working day, Palestinians line up at the office of the Salah Association, handing over medical records and identification papers that are faxed to Saudi Arabia and checked against official Palestinian documents.
Money is then wired to a Gaza branch office of the private, Palestinian-owned Arab Bank: $5,000 for spouses or parents of those killed, $2,500 for the wounded. The Salah Association, which denies reports that it is associated with Hamas, says it has also distributed 200,000 Saudi-financed food baskets in the last two months.
"The Saudis are a generous people, and they have very high prestige among the Palestinians," said Jabar Hussein, the association's director. "Our relationship was already close, but this will make it even closer."
Until a few months ago, though, that generosity was less apparent.
In the first six years of the Palestinian Authority, when foreign aid donors provided more than $3 billion, Saudi Arabia and most other Arab states kept a conspicuous distance. More than half of the Authority's international financial assistance came from the European Union, followed by the United States with about a quarter of the aid.
Support from all of the Arab states combined rarely reached even 10 percent of the total, and by design, almost none of it went directly to the Palestinian Authority, which was continually dogged by reports of mismanagement and corruption.
But since last fall, the conflict with Israel has made support for the Palestinians a unifying cause for Arab states deeply divided over other matters.
In November the Arab League agreed in principle to donate $1 billion to Palestinian aid projects. Nearly $700 million was quickly pledged to the fund. But by last month only $10 million had been disbursed, Palestinian officials complained. They pressed the case in Arab capitals for immediate budget support rather than long-term project financing.
Some Western diplomats see the new Arab support as an indirect endorsement of the peace accord with Israel that created the Authority seven years ago. Others are less sanguine, noting the adamant Saudi resistance to Palestinian compromises over Jerusalem, for example.
"We really have no idea," one senior American official said, "what the long-term implications will be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In January, Yasir Arafat met with the Arab League's secretary general, Esmat Abdel Meguid, right, and Osama el-Baz, an Egyptian official. (Associated Press)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); DESERT STORM (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ISLAMIC BANKING (76%); RELIGION (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PALESTINIANS; FOREIGN AID 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (83%); ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (54%) PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (93%) ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); EUROPE (94%); GULF STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (93%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); EGYPT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); SYRIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%) ISRAEL; SAUDI ARABIA; UNITED ARAB EMIRATES; EUROPE; KUWAIT

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



519 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

Gulf Arabs Aiding Arafat, Despite Past Differences
Persian Gulf oil states are tossing a lifeline to the financially foundering Palestinian Authority, which is led by Yasir Arafat. A $300 million aid package will make Arab donors the Authority's chief source of budgetary support for the first time, with most of the money coming from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, countries that until recently refused to provide direct aid because of Mr. Arafat's support for Iraq during the 1991 gulf war. A1

Bush Policy on Middle East
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who met in Washington with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, drew a distinction from the Clinton administration, saying "the United States stands ready to assist, not insist" in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. A10

Macedonia Set to Press Rebels
Macedonia deployed tanks and troops in and around Tetovo for what a government spokesman said would be a decisive operation against ethnic Albanian rebels. The NATO secretary general, Lord Robertson, said he had asked member countries to send more troops to Kosovo to help with border patrols, but said NATO would not seek to extend its mandate to operate inside Macedonia. A1

U.N. Rights Chief to Quit
Mary Robinson said she would not seek reappointment as high commissioner for human rights when her first term ends in September, explaining that she wanted to work for human rights without the "constraints" imposed by the United Nations. A5

Debate on German Pride
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder joined a debate over whether Germans have a right to feel national pride, declaring himself "a German patriot, who is proud of his country." A11

Convictions in Russia Bombings
A Russian court convicted six men in the September 1999 bombing of an apartment block in the Dagestan region that killed 68 and injured 150. A6

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A12-22

Senate Begins Debate On Campaign Finance Law
The Senate opened debate on legislation that would overhaul campaign finance laws and handed the bill's sponsors, John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, a narrow victory on an early test vote. A1

Outlook for Social Programs
The government said the Medicare trust fund would not run out of money until 2029, the longest period of solvency ever projected for it. Officials also extended the Social Security trust fund's life by a year, to 2038. A18

Administration and Bar Meet
The Bush Administration told the American Bar Association that it is reviewing the organization's special quasi-official role in evaluating candidates for federal judgeships. A16

Ruling on Fifth Amendment
The Supreme Court unanimously ruled that a witness who claims to have had no involvement in a crime does not automatically forfeit the constitutional protection against compelled self-incrimination. A21

Aftermath of Reagan Shooting
A tape recording made shortly after President Ronald Reagan was shot in 1981 portrays tense conversations among officials, including concern over a Soviet sub's location and a duplicate set of nuclear war codes. A17

Blackouts in California
A heat wave combined with the failure of two big power generators prompted hours of rotating blackouts from San Francisco to Beverly Hills, affecting a million customers. A16


Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said the nation faced a "major energy supply crisis" akin to the oil embargo of the 1970's and indicated that the Bush administration intended to overhaul regulations to make it easier to find and refine fuel and to generate and distribute energy. A16

Admission of Sub Crewman
The Greeneville sailor responsible for tracking nearby vessels testified that the boat's sonars showed several times that the Japanese trawler was within close range before the deadly collision, but that he had not believed the readings. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Census Shows Connecticut Is Tipping Toward New York
Fairfield County, the Connecticut county closest to New York City, became the most populous in the state in the 1990's, census data showed. The numbers also suggested that Connecticut's center of gravity was shifting away from its capital, Hartford, which lost 15 percent of its population during the 1990's. A1

No Deal on World Trade Center
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey failed to reach terms on a $3.25 billion deal that would have given Vornado Realty Trust control of the World Trade Center. Talks will be held with Silverstein Properties. B1

Racial Profiling Inquiry
Sgt. Thomas Gilbert of the New Jersey State Police, assigned to gather data on arrests by race since 1996, told a State Senate committee that he had regularly relayed the information to the office of Attorney General Peter G. Verniero, who is now a State Supreme Court justice. B1

FASHION B8

SCIENCE TIMES F1-12

Cardiac Drug Effective in Study
Adding the drug marketed as Plavix and Iscover to standard heart therapy for people with acute chest pain significantly lowered the incidence of death, heart attack and stroke. A12

Health & Fitness F7

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES A23

SPORTS D1-8

Rutgers Out, Huskies Advance
Rutgers lost to Southwest Missouri State, 60-53, in the second round of the West Regional of the women's N.C.A.A. tournament. In the East, Connecticut beat Colorado State, 89-44. D3

BUSINESS DAY C1-20

Changing Course in Japan
Japan's central bank said it would try to stimulate consumer and business spending by pumping money into the banking system, effectively cutting short-term interest rates essentially to zero and promising to keep borrowing costs negligible until demand picks up and prices stop falling. A1


President Bush and Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori discussed joint economic strategies in Washington. C2

Dismissed Employees See Plot
Fired workers say the software maker Computer Associates is disguising a huge layoff as individual firings of employees it labels subpar to avoid paying severance. The company says the firings were routine and that it did nothing wrong. C1

Change Atop Southwestern
The nation's largest low-fare airline said Herbert D. Kelleher, its chief executive, would step aside in favor of James F. Parker, the airline's longtime general counsel. C1

Madison Avenue Merger
Interpublic Group said it would acquire True North Communications in a $2.1 billion deal creating the largest advertising agency company. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: The turbine mess; Ukraine's tribulations; when Mir descends.
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Gail Collins.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather D7

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); DESERT STORM (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MEDICARE (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); BORDER CONTROL (66%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); JUDGES (63%); SOCIAL SECURITY (61%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (90%); UNITED NATIONS (82%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (56%); RUSS FEINGOLD (54%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); KUWAIT (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); GULF STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); GERMANY (91%); KOSOVO (79%); IRAQ (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



520 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Newspaper Publisher Quits to Protest Profit Goals 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
Jay T. Harris, the chairman and publisher of The San Jose Mercury News, announced yesterday that he was quitting his posts and warned his corporate bosses at Knight Ridder that their profit targets for the financially squeezed newspaper risked "significant and lasting harm to The Mercury News as a journalistic enterprise."
 Journalists at the newspaper in California's Silicon Valley, who had been nervously anticipating layoffs that Mr. Harris warned of earlier this month, were stunned to hear instead that he had quit. News of his strongly worded explanation for his resignation ricocheted around the newspaper industry, a business that has been grappling with a sharp decline in advertising revenue, particularly in the larger markets. 
 Mr. Harris's action was hailed by many journalists who believe that newspaper companies too often choose to serve their shareholders at the expense of their readers and viewed with sorrow by at least one Wall Street analyst who saw it as a sign of some journalists' stubborn refusal to accept financial realities.
The push-and-pull at Knight Ridder between cost-cutting and maintaining the investment in journalism is not unique to the company or even to the newspaper business. Other industries that rise and fall with economic cycles, like semiconductor manufacturing, are faced with the same choices between meeting profit margins and reinvesting in the product in tough times. So Mr. Harris's action may well resonate far beyond the profession he joined three decades ago as a reporter.
Mr. Harris's e-mail dropped into his employees' in-boxes shortly after 1:30 p.m. yesterday. It began: "This is a letter I never thought I'd be writing to you.
"It saddens me to do so, and yet I do so with my heart at peace, my conscience clear and high hopes for the paper's future -- and mine as well." Mr. Harris, who had been publisher at the paper for seven years, went on to quote from his resignation letter to Knight Ridder's chief executive, P. Anthony Ridder, and other corporate executives, in which he said he was stepping down in the hope that his action would cause them "to closely examine the wisdom" of corporate profit targets.
The determination to maintain profit margins near or above 20 percent has led Knight Ridder management to turn back requests for financial flexibility from several newspaper editors and publishers. Declining advertising revenue, particularly high-margin help-wanted advertising, has made cost-cutting and rebudgeting a regular occurrence at Knight Ridder newspapers like The Miami Herald, The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Akron Beacon Journal in Ohio.
Yesterday morning, before Mr. Harris sent the e-mail message to his staff, Knight Ridder announced disappointing February results and lowered its expectations for first-quarter earnings. "The revenue environment continues to deteriorate, and we do not see relief in March," Mr. Ridder said.
In the first quarter of 2000, the company reported earnings of 74 cents a share; yesterday it said earnings would fall 15 to 20 cents below that this quarter. After an early downbeat statement by Mr. Ridder in February, analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call had expected, on average, earnings of 71 cents a share.
Yesterday afternoon, after the journalists at The Mercury News had been in meetings discussing the events at the paper with a weekday circulation of about 287,000, they received a second e-mail, this one from Mr. Ridder and the top executives of the newspaper division.
It began, "This is a sad and difficult time for all of us." The message said that the resignation "came as a surprise. We asked him to reconsider, but he would not."
The management message also said that Steve Rossi, the president of the newspaper division, had met with Mr. Harris on Friday. At the meeting, the e-mail continued, Mr. Rossi said that he "wanted no layoffs of full-time newsroom employees and hoped to avoid layoffs of full-time employees elsewhere in the building. He acknowledged that this might mean restructuring in some business-side departments but stressed that he, like Jay, did not want to damage the long-term future of The Mercury News. We think it is important that you know that."
Neither Mr. Harris nor David Yarnold, The Mercury News's executive editor, returned telephone calls for comment yesterday. Polk Laffoon IV, Knight Ridder's corporate spokesman, said Mr. Ridder's e-mail to the Mercury News staff would be his only statement on the matter.
The pressures on The Mercury News were particularly painful because just last year it brought in about 30 new journalists to help cover Silicon Valley in its boom times.
In an interview yesterday, Lauren Rich Fine, a newspaper industry analyst with Merrill Lynch, said she was disappointed to hear that Mr. Harris had resigned. "If you have a publisher that resigns himself rather than cut costs," she said. "It's a strong sign that they have a culture there that is not comfortable cutting costs" when revenues are falling.
Pete Carey, who won a Pulitzer Prize at the paper, said of Mr. Harris, "He has taken the honorable route. He is not going to stay when he disagrees so fundamentally with the direction the newspaper should take during these hard times."
Geneva Overholser, a syndicated columnist and the former editor of The Des Moines Register, said Mr. Harris's letter of explanation was a "clarion call," and that "all of us in newspapers are indebted to this honorable man."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jay T. Harris quit as publisher of The San Jose Mercury News, criticizing the latest profit targets. (Associated Press)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); WRITERS (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); DISMISSALS (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); ELECTRONICS (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (71%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (51%) NEWSPAPERS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FINANCES; ADVERTISING 

ORGANIZATION: SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS; KNIGHT RIDDER 

PERSON: HARRIS, JAY I; BARRINGER, FELICITY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); AKRON, OH, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



521 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: THE CENSUS: Connecticut; 
Connecticut Population Shifts Toward New York

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
Fairfield County, with its verdant suburbs, flourishing economy and troops of New York City-bound commuters, became the most populous county in Connecticut in the 1990's, according to figures from the 2000 census released yesterday. The data suggest that Connecticut's center of gravity is shifting away from its traditional focal point, Hartford.
 Hartford lost a striking 15 percent of its population in the 1990's, some of it, apparently, to its own suburbs, according to the 2000 census data. Other large cities and smaller industrial towns also shrank, while once little-known communities far beyond the cities boomed. 
 The state's population as a whole increased to 3,405,565, up from 3,305,658 in 1990. That growth of 3.6 percent was below the national trend, and Connecticut will lose one Congressional seat, going down to five, as a result.
And at a time when immigration and racial and ethnic diversity are transforming states like New Jersey, three out of every four Connecticut residents are white, according to the census numbers. Hispanics in Connecticut rose to nearly 10 percent. Much of their growth was in shrinking cities like Hartford, New Haven and New London. Hispanics are now the state's largest minority group. 
Meanwhile, the proportion of non-Hispanic blacks stayed at just under 9 percent of the state's population. While the number of people in Hartford dwindled, blacks appeared to be moving out of the city into neighboring communities like Bloomfield, East Hartford and Windsor. The number of non-Hispanic whites in those and similar towns plunged.
The population increases and decreases are based on figures for 2000 and on 1990 data that were adjusted to make up for undercounting and overcounting in the 1990 census.
The fastest-growing county was Middlesex, which includes communities like Old Lyme, Old Saybrook and Essex along the Connecticut River. 
"We're a desirable spot, a green spot between urban areas," said Wini Olson, a regional planner with the Connecticut River Estuary Regional Planning Agency. But she said the growth had created a new problem, "McMansions along the river."
Thomas Cooke, an assistant professor of geography at the University of Connecticut, said: "What is happening on the outer reaches is Connecticut's version of sprawl. Middlesex County is growing because people are out there building their McMansions and commuting 45 minutes to work."
Fairfield County, where nearly one in four of the state's residents now live, was the second-fastest growing, inching out Hartford County as most populous. With a booming economy and job growth in the New York City area, the county's small towns as well as some cities grew. Economists attributed the growth in part to low unemployment, made possible by companies moving out of New York and relocating in Stamford.
Stamford alone grew by 8 percent, an increase that Edward Deak, a professor of economics at Fairfield University, traced to growth in the financial services sector of the economy; a proliferation of Internet businesses and computer-related services; some urban revitalization; and good access to New York City.
In stark contrast to Stamford, Hartford lost more than 20,000 residents in the 1990's, dropping from second- to third-largest city. The capital never recovered from the decline of the insurance and military-based industries in the early 1990's.
The largest city, Bridgeport, lost more than 4,000 people. New Haven, now in second place, lost nearly 9,000. Towns along the Hartford border, like East Hartford and East Windsor, also lost population.
Smaller cities suffered, too. New Britain lost 5 percent of its population and Bristol shrank slightly. 
Meanwhile, some of the largest percentage increases in the state could be found in smaller places like Sherman in Fairfield County, East Hampton in Middlesex County and towns like Sterling and Colchester.
Danbury also grew, by more than 9,000 people.
More than 2.6 million of the state's 3.4 million residents described themselves as non-Hispanic white; their percentage in the population dropped from 83 percent to 77 percent, using adjusted 1990 figures. In Litchfield County, they made up nearly 95 percent of the population, compared with 73 percent in Hartford County.
Hispanics in Connecticut rose from about 222,000 to about 320,000, but they remained concentrated in Hartford, New Haven and Fairfield Counties. The largest increase in Hispanics was in Hartford, where they are 40 percent of city residents. Their numbers also jumped in New Haven, Waterbury, New Britain, New London and Danbury.
In fast-growing Middlesex, however, Hispanics made up just 3 percent of the population, only slightly more than in Litchfield County.
The number of blacks in the state rose from nearly 272,000 to more than 295,000, the data show. They were also concentrated in Hartford, New Haven and Fairfield Counties, and practically absent from Litchfield and Windham Counties. Communities with large increases in blacks included many communities adjacent to Hartford, and Hamden, just north of New Haven.
At the same time, the number of non-Hispanic whites in those communities dropped markedly, though it is not clear whether those declines were largely attributable to deaths or to departures. The percentage of non-Hispanic whites in East Hartford dropped by 23 percent, in Bloomfield by 14 percent and Windsor by 13 percent.
Asians were concentrated in Fairfield County, though even there they were just 3 percent of the population. Less than 2 percent of Connecticut residents described themselves as multiracial. 
The census data released yesterday were limited to population and breakdowns by race and ethnicity.
Fred Carstensen, a professor of economics and director of the Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis at the University of Connecticut, said one of the most important issues will be "what has happened to the population in our core cities." Another, he said, will be questions of income distribution and inequality.
"Historically, of course, Connecticut is on average the wealthiest state in the country," he said. 
But Hartford, he said, is among the country's poorest cities. "I have heard it said that Connecticut is characterized by private wealth and public poverty," he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the release of 2000 census figures for Connecticut misidentified the counties for Old Lyme and, in some copies, East Hampton. Old Lyme is in New London County, not Middlesex. East Hampton is in Middlesex, not Tolland.

GRAPHIC: Chart shows population change in Connecticut, from 1990 TO 2000.STAMFORD: +8%BRIDGEPORT: -3%NEW HAVEN: -7%HARTFORD: -15%(Source: Census Bureau)(pg. A1) Chart: "Connecticut Suburban Growth" Chart shows people per square mile and people per square acre for 1980 and 2000. UrbanPEOPLE PER SQUARE MILE: 3,200 or morePEOPLE PER ACRE: About 5 SuburbanPEOPLE PER SQUARE MILE: 320 to 3,200PEOPLE PER ACRE: About 1 to 5 RuralPEOPLE PER SQUARE MILE: Less than 320PEOPLE PER ACRE: About 1(Source: Census Bureau (unadjusted cenus data analyzed by The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (97%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (92%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (90%); SUBURBS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); REDISTRICTING (78%); TRENDS (77%); ETHNICITY (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); RIVERS (62%); IMMIGRATION (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) POPULATION; ELECTIONS; CENSUS; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; MINORITIES (US); REAPPORTIONMENT 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CENSUS BUREAU (US) 

PERSON: SCOTT, JANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (78%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) CONNECTICUT; FAIRFIELD COUNTY (CONN); HARTFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



522 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 76 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS WILL MISS FIRST-QUARTER ESTIMATES

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 Illinois Tool Works, a diversified manufacturer, said yesterday that its first-quarter earnings would fall short of Wall Street forecasts because its automotive and general industrial markets slowed with the economy. The company, based in Glenview, Ill., said it expected to report earnings of 58 to 62 cents a diluted share for the quarter ended Feb. 28, down from 72 cents a year earlier and below the 67 cents forecast by Thomson Financial/First Call. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%) FINANCES 

COMPANY: ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC (90%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%)

ORGANIZATION: ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC 

TICKER: ITW (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS332722 BOLT, NUT, SCREW, RIVET & WASHER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (90%); SIC3542 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL FORMING TYPE (90%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (90%); SIC3452 BOLTS, NUTS, SCREWS, RIVETS & WASHERS (90%) SIC3452 BOLTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



523 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: City Drain Continues, Despite U.S. Trend 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., March 19 

 BODY:
While early results from the 2000 census have shown resurgent populations in New York and many other cities across the nation, Connecticut's largest cities continue to suffer from a steady decline that began in the 1960's, according to census data released today. 
 As in previous decades, the only exception to the trend is Stamford, a corporate center in Fairfield County that continues to grow, even as populations shrink in Hartford, New Haven, Waterbury and Bridgeport, the state's largest city. 
 For the most part, the declining populations in Connecticut's cities parallel a decline in industry and in jobs, according to a study prepared last year by the state's Economic and Community Development Department. 
From 1960 to 1998, according to the state report, Bridgeport lost nearly 30,000 jobs. According to the 2000 census, Bridgeport's population is just under 144,000, down from more than 156,000 four decades ago. 
In New Haven, where new census data show that the population has dropped by 6.6 percent since 1990, more than 11,000 jobs were lost between 1960 and 1998, according to the state report. (The population comparisons are based on census figures for 2000 and on data for 1990 that reflect later adjustments to census figures to improve accuracy.)
But academics and other experts familiar with the shifting of Connecticut's urban landscapes suggest that a number of other factors are contributing to the cities' decline, including the appeal of suburbs and a lack of immigrants, who have been a large part of urban growth in other parts of the country. 
Connecticut cities are also not attracting recent college graduates -- the people in their early to mid-20's who have been contributing to housing crunches in New York, Jersey City, Hoboken, N.J., and other centers of new-economy jobs. 
"What's wrong with Connecticut?" asked Jay Gitlin, a history professor at Yale University and an expert on American suburbs. "That's a very good question.
"If you look at why New York has gained -- strong economy, lots of 20-somethings have moved in, putting a lot of pressure on the housing market," Dr. Gitlin said. "It's not that suburbanites are moving back to the city, it's other groups that are traditionally urban groups that are moving in. I know some of the people moving in -- they are my students."
Dr. Gitlin said Connecticut's urban decline was deepened by poor transportation and a lack of economic growth like that in New York and other large cities. But he also said there was a social angle to the drop. 
"I don't think Connecticut cities get the 20-something crowd because, let's face it, they are boring," he said. "The 20-something crowd, the new-tech groups, and the immigrant groups, why come here? We have not kept up with that cultural and technical economic expansion."
Matthew Nemerson, a former president of the Greater New Haven Chamber of Commerce, suggested that the strong economy of the 1990's had actually contributed to the decline of Connecticut's cities, by giving poor residents the means to leave the inner cities. 
"When people find that through hard work, their income is going up and families are formed and they are going to make decisions about how to spend the money they are making, many people are deciding to move out of the city," he said. "Because one, they can afford it, and two, they are concerned about finding the best location, usually, for their children."
And while young families with children are moving out, young single adults are not moving in, he said.
Mayor Joseph P. Ganim of Bridgeport said he believed that the city's population had stabilized after a sharp decline in the early 1990's and had actually increased somewhat from 1995 to 2000. 
"I think it's a positive sign when you look at what's happened in Connecticut's two other large cities," he said, referring to drops of 15 percent in Hartford and 6.6 percent in New Haven.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A New Look at Race in Connecticut"This month, the Census Bureau is releasing state population figures broken out by race and ethnicity. The figures below were made public yesterday. Categories are not directly comparable with those in 1990 because the 2000 questionnaire was the first to let people choose more than one race. Connecticut1990 CENSUS: 3,305,6582000 CENSUS: 3,405,565 Non-Hispanic White1990 CENSUS: 2,752,5562000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING JUST ONE RACIAL CATEGORY: 2,638,8452000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING THIS RACE WITH OTHER RACE(S): 38,703 Black1990 CENSUS: 271,6602000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING JUST ONE RACIAL CATEGORY: 295,5712000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING THIS RACE WITH OTHER RACE(S): 23,048 Asian or Pacific Islander1990 CENSUS: 49,1002000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING JUST ONE RACIAL CATEGORY: 82,5222000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING THIS RACE WITH OTHER RACE(S): 14,003 American Indian or Alaska Native1990 CENSUS: 5,9462000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING JUST ONE RACIAL CATEGORY: 7,2672000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING THIS RACE WITH OTHER RACE(S): 12,793 Other1990 CENSUS: 3,8962000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING JUST ONE RACIAL CATEGORY: 8,1412000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING THIS RACE WITH OTHER RACE(S): 20,819 Multiracial (not an option in 1990)2000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING JUST ONE RACIAL CATEGORY: 52,896 Hispanic (may be of any race)1990 CENSUS: 222,5002000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING JUST ONE RACIAL CATEGORY: 320,3232000 CENSUS: NUMBER LISTING THIS RACE WITH OTHER RACE(S): Graph 1990NON-HISPANICWHITE: 83%BLACK: 8%OTHER: 2% HISPANIC: 7% 2000WHITE ONLY: 77%BLACK ONLY: 9%OTHER: 4% HISPANIC: 9% *In the bar graphs, "other" includes: Asians, Pacific Islanders, American Indians, Alaska Natives and others not included in the larger categories. Percentages may not add to 100 because of rounding.(Source: Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (96%); TRENDS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); HISTORY (69%); LAYOFFS (69%); SUBURBS (69%); NEW ECONOMY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%) POPULATION; CENSUS 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%)

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



524 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: JAPAN'S BANK ACTS TO SPUR SPENDING IN AILING ECONOMY 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, March 19 

 BODY:
Japan's central bank changed course sharply today in the struggle to revive the stagnant Japanese economy.
 The bank said it would try to stimulate consumer and business spending by pumping money into the banking system, by effectively cutting short-term interest rates essentially to zero and by promising to keep borrowing costs negligible until demand picks up and prices stop falling. 
 The announcement was a stunning about-face for the central bank, which for years had stubbornly resisted calls to give up its focus on keeping the money supply stable and flood the country with yen instead. Only the rate cut had been widely forecast, and that was expected to come only grudgingly.
"The bank has come to the conclusion that the economic conditions warrant drastic monetary easing, such as is unlikely to be taken under ordinary circumstances," the bank said in a statement. 
By trying to put more money into the hands of consumers and companies, the bank hopes to spur spending on goods and services, which would tend to push up prices. That, the bank hopes, would encourage consumers who had been putting off purchases to buy before prices went up much more. 
In Washington, where President Bush was meeting with Japan's prime minister, Yoshiro Mori, officials at the Treasury and the White House were relieved by the Bank of Japan's decision. But the two leaders ended their meeting with only a vague commitment by Japan to confront its huge problems with bad loans and corporate debt. Page C2. 
As economic growth slows around the world, the precarious state of the Japanese economy, the second largest after the United States, has taken on greater urgency. The country's banking system is riddled with bad debts, previous stimulus packages built around public spending have had little lasting effect except to run up the budget deficit, and a short-lived revival last year, driven almost exclusively by exports, appears to have fizzled out.
Consumers and business people alike have so little confidence in the economic future that they have reined in their spending, and the slack demand for goods and services has depressed prices and asset values throughout the economy.
The move by the bank today completed the reversal of a tighter-money policy put in place last September after the economy had begun to show some forward momentum. The bank's governor, Masaru Hayami, has since been berated for squelching a nascent recovery, not least by Western economists and finance ministers and an increasingly influential group within the nation's Finance Ministry who have been agitating against the Bank of Japan's tightfisted policies for several years.
Senior politicians have also made a habit of beating up on Mr. Hayami and the bank. "The Bank of Japan has been a very convenient scapegoat for politicians, who are facing a tough election this summer, a downward trend in the economy and increasing demands for structural reforms," said James Malcolm, an economist at J. P. Morgan in Tokyo. "Today's move by the bank is therefore almost symbolic, in that it's saying, 'O.K., we capitulated, now the ball is in your court.' "
By casting aside its longstanding objections and agreeing to give the political leadership's prescriptions for recovery a try, the bank has shifted the responsibility for the economy off its shoulders and onto the politicians' at a crucial moment. 
The Bank of Japan said its new policy was prompted by concerns about the ineffectiveness of Japanese fiscal and monetary policy over the last decade, about the slowing global economy, and about the pervasive deflation that is eroding prices, wages and asset values here. 
In practical terms, the central bank's board voted to increase the money supply by greatly expanding Japanese banks' capacity to lend. It will raise the amount of reserves the banks are required to keep in its custody by about 25 percent, to 5 trillion yen ($41 billion), and at the same time lend the banks the money they need to do so. With the greater reserves, the banks can lend much more without overstretching their capital. The move will have the effect of returning short-term interest rates to zero from 0.15 percent now. 
Moreover, the board said it would continue the policy until the consumer price index stops falling and remains flat or rises for a period of time. That commitment means the bank has implicitly adopted a tepid form of "inflation targeting," a policy of explicitly aiming to a step long urged on Japan by economists and long resisted by the Bank of Japan. 
The bank even suggested it would consider buying Japanese government bonds outright, a step it has resisted despite the blandishments of the political old guard. The move would guarantee the government will be able to finance its activities. But the bank said it would do so only when it deemed such purchases "necessary" -- and it did not define necessary. 
"This is quantitative easing, although an extremely modest version of it," said Ronald Bevacqua, chief economist at Commerz Securities in Tokyo. "But in the board's defense, this is an incredible change of direction for the Bank of Japan, which has denied the necessity for this type of easing throughout the entire post-bubble era. In the context of what is possible in Japan, this is not a bad first step."
While the policy board did not say what its next moves would be, it did open the door for further steps in the same direction. Two members of the board will step down this year, one of whom, Eiko Shinotsuka, was an ardent proponent of raising interest rates. The government will probably fill their places with candidates who are more dovish on monetary policy. 
"We believe today's measures will be the final easing measures in the current cycle," said Mamoru Yamazaki, chief economist at Barclay's Capital in Tokyo, referring to the bank's moves over the last two months to lower interest rates. "The next step would be outright inflation-targeting, but it would be a long time before such an action is taken."
Economists debate whether increasing the money supply will actually have its intended effect of stimulating activity. The bank cannot force companies and consumers to borrow, and most seem disinclined to do so, even at rock-bottom rates. The Japanese financial system is already awash with money, and bankers say that only the least creditworthy borrowers are asking for loans.
"Easing like this makes a lot of difference if there's a credit crunch," Mr. Malcolm said. "But currently we aren't in that situation in Japan -- although the risks of it may be increasing with a rise in bankruptcies."
In the United States, the Federal Reserve has several times acted to rapidly inject money into the banking system at times of impending crisis, most notably when a cash squeeze at an important institution like Citibank or Long-Term Capital Management threatened to disrupt financial markets. But deflationary conditions akin to those in Japan have not been seen in the United States since the Great Depression.
The bank's actions today may tend to push the yen lower against the dollar, as investors switch out of yen into currencies like the dollar where they can earn greater interest rates. A weaker yen would give a boost to Japan's mammoth exporters, which almost alone produced the brief surge in overall economic activity last year, and many analysts foresaw a decline in the yen's value even before the Bank of Japan acted. That effect will be undercut to some extent if, as expected, the Federal Reserve reduces United States interest rates on Tuesday. 
The yen was little changed in Tokyo trading after the bank's announcement, and fell slightly in value in New York to 123.03 to the dollar, near a two-year low. 
Still, the bank's eyes are clearly on domestic demand, not exchange rates. In its statement, it conceded the deflation Japan is seeing stems from too little demand, not only from structural factors like globalization or increased competition.
The government and the ruling Liberal Democratic Party have recently come up with plans to encourage Japanese banks to tackle their bad debt problems once and for all, and to unwind the longstanding system of mutual stock ownership between the banks and their biggest customers. Beyond prompting fears in world stock markets that the banks would start selling stocks heavily -- there is no sign that they have actually done so -- these plans are running into substantial political and practical obstacles, not least the requirement that banks set aside reserves to cover writedowns of loan and stock portfolios.
With the ruling party facing an uphill battle in elections for the upper house of Parliament in July, no painful measures are likely to be adopted before the fall.
In fact, senior politicians have amplified their calls for a supplemental budget of new public spending, even though the regular 82 trillion yen budget for the fiscal year that begins April 1 has not yet been enacted. Deficit spending from past supplemental budgets, long favored by policy makers and often urged on Japan by foreign governments, have left the country with a crushing national debt of about 130 percent of its gross domestic product.
"We're now at the limits of both fiscal and monetary policy, and that's where things get interesting," Mr. Bevacqua said. "The money's run out in terms of fiscal spending; they can't lower interest rates any further; and now, Japan's rich uncle, otherwise known as the U.S. consumer, has no money left in his pockets either."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day yesterday showing the change in household spending and bank lending in Japan reversed two labels. The change in household spending was adjusted for price changes, and the change in bank lending excluded loans to financial institutions and the central government.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Less Spending and Borrowing"The Bank of Japan's new monetary policy is meant to strengthen weak demand for goods and services. Uncertain about the economic future, consumers and businesses have become reluctant to spend or borrow any more than they have to. The bank hopes easier credit will encourage them to open their wallets again. HOUSEHOLD SPENDING -- Change from a year earlier, excluding loans to financial institutions and the central government, plotted monthly. BANK LOANS OUTSTANDING -- Change from a year earlier, adjusted for price changes, plotted monthly. Graph shows figures from 1998-2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); POLITICS (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%) CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; CURRENCY 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) JAPAN 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



525 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
WOOTTON, PHILIP H. JR.

 BODY:
WOOTTON-Philip H. Jr. On March 17, 2001. In Stamford, Ct. Age 82. An innovative Life Magazine editor and later a rancher in Colorado, Mr. Wootton was a 1940 Cum Laude Yale graduate in Economic Geology and Editor of Yale Scientific Magazine. He was born September 12, 1918 in New York City to Philip Henry Wootton and Anna Irving. In the mid 1950s, as Assistant Managing Editor, Mr. Wootton lead a team of Life editors and reporters who developed the concept of special issues and serials that underpinned the magazine's growth in the post-war, pre-television years. As Executive Editor in 1961 to 1963 among many other projects, he oversaw the Life Magazine special on the assassination of John F. Kennedy. Later, as Associate Director of research and development, he concentrated on multi-media development and contractual relations with broadcast and television companies. In 1971 Mr. Wootton purchased Singing River Ranch in Red Wing, Colorado. With his wife and family, Mr. Wooten ran the guest and cattle ranch for seven years. He sold the working half of the ranch in 1977 and retired, building a small cabin and barn nearby. Mr. Wootton was a longtime former member of the Woodway Country Club, a member of the Country Club of New Canaan, a former Board member of the New Canaan Nature Center and assisted regularly at Pegasus, a therapeutic riding program for the handicapped. Mr. Wootton's survivors include his wife of 58 years Marie Core Duffy Wootton of New Canaan, CT., two sons Philip H. III of Monroe, CT, William R. of Marlboro, VT., two daughers Constance Wootton Nichols of New Canaan, CT., and Elizabeth Ann Core Wootton of New Haven, CT., three nieces and a nephew and eight grandchildren: Justin, Peter and James Wootton; Russell and Clara Wootton; Elizabeth and Katharine Nichols, and Marina Wootton. 
A private interment will be followed by a memorial Mass at 11AM Saturday, March 24, at St. Thomas More Church, Middlesex Road, Darien, CT. Donations in memory of Mr. Wootton may be made to Waveny Care Center, Farm Road, New Canaan, CT. 06840 or to the New Canaan Volunteer Ambulance Corps, South Avenue, New Canaan, CT. 06840.
 WOOTTON-Philip. Retired editor of Life Magazine on March 17, 2001. Beloved husband of Marie Core Duffy Wootton. Loving father of two sons, Philip Henry and William R. Wootton and two daughters, Constance Nichols and Elizabeth Wootton. Grandfather to eight grandchildren. Funeral services Saturday, March 24, at 11 am in St. Thomas More R.C. Church in Darien, CT. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Waveny Care Center, 3 Farm Rd, New Canaan, CT 06840, or New Canaan Volunteer Ambulance Corp, South Ave, New Canaan, CT 06840. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDCHILDREN (88%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (73%); GRANDPARENTS (72%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (69%); VOLUNTEERS (66%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (53%) WOOTTON, PHILIP H. JR. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); VERMONT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



526 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1942 words

HEADLINE: High-Stakes Showdown; 
Enron's Fight Over Power Plant Reverberates Beyond India

BYLINE:  By CELIA W. DUGGER 

DATELINE: BOMBAY 

 BODY:
K. Wade Cline, a folksy lawyer from Houston with a round face and strawberry blond hair, is fit to be tied. As the top executive here for the Enron Corporation, the American energy multinational, Mr. Cline knows that the largest foreign investment ever made in India -- a majority of it owned by Enron -- is in trouble again.
 The state of Maharashtra has stopped paying its bills for the huge $3 billion power plant that sprawls along the Arabian Sea 100 miles south of here. After the nine tumultuous years it took to bring the project to fruition, the state now says it does not need and cannot afford most of the power. The resulting conflict is fast turning into a messy contractual dispute. 
 "Gosh dang it," Mr. Cline said. "I'm mad because they've waited so late, and we're running up against June when the bills will double." 
And that is just for starters. Next year, the amount the state's electricity board owes will more than quadruple to over $1 billion a year as the huge turbines for the second phase of the project come on line. Under the 20-year contract, the state and central governments have guaranteed they will pay the money if the electricity board defaults.
"Free us from Enron." That is the cry of Chief Minister Vilasrao Deshmukh, the top politician in Maharashtra, one of India's most industrialized states and home to Bombay, the nation's financial capital.
But so far, no one has come to his rescue. On March 8, the Dabhol Power Company, largely owned by Enron, invoked the central government's guarantee to pay up since the state had not, a commitment the central government says it will honor.
The stakes in this showdown are very high. The Dabhol project is fast becoming one of the fiercest battlegrounds in the debate about who wins and who loses from globalization. And it has the potential to sour foreign investors on India, a market of a billion people, and to sour Indians on foreign investors.
The worry that Dabhol could chill foreign investment is serious for India. More than 250 million people here live in abject poverty. The country needs to participate in the global economy in a way that broadly benefits society, economists say.
But investments by foreign companies in plants, factories and other projects in India fell sharply to $2 billion in 1999 from $3.6 billion two years earlier. China, the world's other highly populous developing country, attracted 20 times as much money.
The Dabhol project alone makes up more than 10 percent of the total direct foreign investment in India since 1992. 
Its woes have again raised questions about the financial wisdom of a strategy pursued not just in India, but in Pakistan, Indonesia and other developing countries. In an effort to attract private capital for electricity and economic growth, governments negotiated long-term deals, often in secret, with private companies for new power plants.
In the early 1990's, after India slowly began dismantling its centrally controlled economy and opening up to foreign investors, Dabhol became one of the first foreign-owned power projects approved by the central government in New Delhi.
The 2,184-megawatt project -- which Enron says is the largest gas-fired plant in the world -- has produced a raucous collection of anti-Enron crusaders. Among them are leftist political parties, consumer advocates and dogged individuals like Pradyumna Kaul, whose small management consulting office is piled with teetering stacks of documents, many printed from the Web.
Dabhol's opponents contend that the deal was meant to generate not just power, but bribes for politicians -- a charge that has never been proved and that Enron adamantly denies. The novelist Arundhati Roy, who has emerged as India's most impassioned critic of globalization and American influence, argues that such deals have benefited corrupt officials and foreign power companies, not the public.
"Once the agreements are signed," she wrote in a recent essay in Outlook magazine, "they are free to produce power at exorbitant rates that no one can afford."
But it is not just the foes of privatization who have questioned the deal with Dabhol, a joint venture of Enron (which owns a 65 percent share), Bechtel Enterprises and General Electric (10 percent each) and Maharashtra's electricity board (15 percent).
Back in 1993, when the project was just a twinkle in an executive's eye, the World Bank concluded that it was "not economically viable." The bank said that the type of plant proposed would produce too much power at too costly a price for the state.
A high ranking state official, who declined to be named, said that senior civil servants gave the same warning. "We knew what would happen, and they did it anyway for reasons they thought best," he said. "You're bankrupting yourself knowingly, willingly, deliberately."
There is also a growing consensus here that the problem with the Dabhol deal goes beyond its particulars. India's power sector -- inefficient, corrupt and heavily subsidized -- is hemorrhaging almost $5 billion in losses each year.
In Maharashtra, a third of the power is stolen or lost. More than $1 billion in delinquent bills are uncollected. And 9 of 10 customers pay subsidized rates.
The World Bank, said Edwin Lim, its country director for India, now strongly advises governments against guaranteeing contracts for new plants unless they also turn over distribution to private companies, which are more likely to reduce theft and collect bills.
The State of Maharashtra is desperately trying to figure out how to pay for Dabhol. Clearly the preferred solution for the state, the central government and Enron is that another state or company buys the electricity, but so far none have come forward.
In an interview, Mr. Deshmukh, the chief minister, called the power shockingly expensive. This fiscal year, electricity from Dabhol costs more than three times as much as other power in the system, state officials say.
A number of factors have driven up the price. The first phase of the project is fueled by naphtha, which has become much costlier because of rising oil prices. The bills are calculated in rupees, but tied to the dollar, so as the rupee has lost value the price here has risen.
Also, the state's electricity regulatory commission requires the electricity board to buy the cheapest power first, leaving Dabhol at the end of the line. Demand is much lower than the state had forecast. In recent months, the state has been buying only 10 to 20 percent of the power that Dabhol is capable of generating, while paying the plant's full fixed costs, Enron says. In Phase 2, twice as big as Phase 1 and fueled by natural gas imported in liquefied form, the state will also have to pay 75 percent of the fuel costs even if it buys no power.
Mr. Deshmukh, whose Congress Party narrowly holds office in a fractious coalition government, faces unpopular choices. In a country where many consumers are used to cheap or free power, the state can raise tariffs; go after big power thieves, many of them politically connected; collect delinquent bills; or slash spending on schools, hospitals and police.
For the state, the payments due for Dabhol will be huge -- more than Maharashtra's entire budget for primary and secondary education. 
The chief minister's hope that the central government will save the state is dimmed by the fact that two of the parties in power at the national level, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Shiv Sena, are his chief political rivals in the state.
The Congress Party itself made the deal for the first phase of the Dabhol project, but it was the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Shiv Sena that agreed on the second phase -- after having beaten the Congress Party in 1995 state elections on a platform of throwing Enron into the Arabian Sea.
Suresh Prabhu, the power minister in New Delhi who is a Shiv Sena member from Maharashtra, said that if the state defaults, the central government would pay the bills, but the money would come out of the budgetary allocation to Maharashtra.
"We'll honor our guarantee without excuse," he said.
Mr. Prabhu's position, while reassuring Enron, should give state officials sleepless nights.
The latest crisis officially began in early February, when Dabhol Power first invoked the central government's guarantee to pay the state's $17 million November bill. The state itself subsequently paid up.
But the December payment for $22 million is now more than a month overdue, not to mention the January bill. The state electricity board argues that Dabhol owes it more than $85 million as a penalty for taking a couple of hours too long to fire up the plant. Dabhol Power calls this a frivolous excuse to avoid paying its bills and has again invoked the government guarantee. If the dispute cannot be settled, Dabhol will seek international arbitration, Enron says.
The payments crisis has given a lift to the project's opponents. A coalition of leftist parties and other groups held anti-Enron protests across Maharashtra on March 1. They want what they regard as a sweetheart deal to be canceled.
The Enron imbroglio, in turn, has alarmed American diplomats, who have pressed their concerns with officials in what they see as the interest of closer economic ties for the United States and India. Opponents of the project, like Girish Sant of Prayas, a nonprofit energy research group in Pune, say American government lobbying for corporate interests is unseemly.
Richard Celeste, the American ambassador, warned a gathering of political and business leaders in Bombay in late January that the perception that a legal contract like the one for Dabhol was "fair game for renegotiation" would feed uncertainty about investing in India.
Mr. Celeste, a Clinton appointee who will soon be leaving, said he had delivered the same message in a meeting with Mr. Deshmukh.
"I did tell the chief minister of Maharashtra when we sat down that I had no intention of going on the board of Enron," Mr. Celeste said in an interview.
Mr. Celeste's predecessor, Frank Wisner, joined the board of an oil and gas exploration company after he retired as ambasssador in 1997 that was then majority-owned by Enron; he has been criticized here for the move. But Mr. Wisner, now vice chairman of the American International Group, an insurance company, said that though Enron then owned a majority of the exploration company, their boards were separate.
He labeled as "foolishness" the argument that his membership on the board was a reward for the help he gave Enron in his three years as ambassador.
Earlier this month, Mr. Wisner and a group of corporate representatives from a United States-Indian business group met with N. K. Singh, one of Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee's most influential advisers, to discuss a number of issues, including Dabhol. Among those present were a representative from Enron and Enron's former top executive here.
"Dabhol sends a signal to investors in general and power investors notably that there's trouble ahead for investors in India," Mr. Wisner said. "It's in everyone's interest to see this settled quickly."
If anything, American lobbying on behalf of Enron may become more aggressive under President Bush. Kenneth L. Lay, chairman of Enron, has for years been an informal adviser and close friend to Mr. Bush and an important campaign fund-raiser.
Mr. Cline, Enron India's managing director, said Enron itself had no plans to invest in any more power projects in India for now and that companies in the sector were thinking hard before choosing India.
"When the markets of the world beckon with quicker returns," he said, "most companies are choosing to go elsewhere."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pradyumna Kaul, an anti-Enron activist, in the passage of a building where his office is situated. (Santosh Verma for The New York Times)(pg. C14); An engineer, above, at the Dabhol Power Plant. K. Wade Cline, left, Enron's top executive in India. Protesters, right, at a rally in Bombay earlier this month. (Left, Santosh Verma for The New York Times; above, Reuters); (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C1) Map of India highlighting Dabhol: The site of the Dabhol power project in Maharashtra State. (pg. C14) Chart: "Pulling Back"Foreign investment in India -- already far behind China, the other huge developing country with which India competes for capital -- has fallen in recent years as companies have found the business climate less hospitable than expected. Graph shows figures from 1992-1993 to 2000-2001. *Indian fiscal years run from April to March.Full fiscal year* April-Dec.(Source: India Ministry of Finance The New York Times)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; FINANCES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: DABHOL POWER CO; ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: DUGGER, CELIA W 

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (88%) MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (96%); WEST INDIA (94%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) INDIA; MAHARASHTRA STATE (INDIA)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



527 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Interpublic Agrees to Buy True North

BYLINE:  By STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
There's a new No. 1 on Madison Avenue -- again.
 Only five months after the WPP Group in London became the world's largest marketing communications company in revenue and billings by acquiring Young & Rubicam Inc., the Interpublic Group of Companies in New York, whose agencies work for clients like Coca-Cola, General Motors and Nestle, has leap-frogged into the lead. 
 Interpublic will go to the head of the class after the completion of an acquisition announced yesterday, after weeks of speculation, to buy True North Communications in Chicago, whose agencies work for clients like AT&T, Compaq Computer and PepsiCo. The stock deal, subject to the usual conditions, is valued at almost $2.1 billion.
The acquisition is the first big takeover of an agency company so far this year and the largest ever by far for the continually acquisitive Interpublic, which had been third in revenue behind WPP and the Omnicom Group in New York and second in billings behind WPP. True North, which had been shopping itself around to potential buyers since November, after losing its most important client, the Chrysler Group, had been ninth in revenue and eighth in billings. 
The acquisition represents a major gamble by Interpublic executives that a takeover of this size, one of the largest ever in advertising, makes sense strategically at a time when the slowdown of the American economy threatens to abruptly end the long-running boom on Madison Avenue.
"The question is, how smart will they look a year from now?" said Lauren Rich Fine, an analyst who follows the advertising industry for Merrill Lynch & Company. "I'd like to be able to look back and say, 'This is a great management that took the risk to buy True North today.' "
The deal, expected to be completed by early July, could be seen as emblematic of the types of transactions that take place in hard times: opportunistic acquisitions by the biggest agency companies seeking to grow ever bigger as they strive to stay apace with the huge consolidations among global marketers.
"How many advertising agencies are needed in the world?" Michael J. Russell Jr., an analyst who follows the industry for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, asked rhetorically. "The answer starts to drop as clients consolidate."
True North had been in on-again, off-again talks with Interpublic for more than three months, as negotiations also started and stopped with WPP and another giant marketing communications company, Havas Advertising in Paris. After the loss of the Chrysler Group creative and media assignments, with combined billings estimated at $2.4 billion, David Bell, chairman and chief executive at True North, had indicated he was amenable to outside offers.
"One of the jobs of a C.E.O. in a consolidating industry is to make certain our clients, our people and our shareholders are in an endgame environment," Mr. Bell said in a telephone interview.
"We have done the right thing not only to accelerate our growth," he added, "but also our ability to deliver a broad range of services seamlessly and smoothly by making available new services in the Interpublic family."
The deal, which lifts Interpublic to an estimated $6.7 billion in revenue from $5.2 billion and an estimated $62.5 billion in billings from $48.2 billion, brings under one ownership True North agencies like FCB Worldwide, the Bozell Group, BSMG Worldwide and TN Media along with Interpublic operations like McCann-Erickson, the Lowe Group, Weber Shandwick and Initiative Media Worldwide.
"It adds to the management depth of Interpublic to address issues going forward" raised by the uncertain economic outlook, said John J. Dooner Jr., chairman and chief executive at Interpublic, who joined Mr. Bell for the telephone interview.
"People who've gone through good times and bad times know how to get things done," he added, "and also know how to ride out of bad times in a strong way."
This is the first acquisition for Interpublic since Mr. Dooner added the duties of chairman in early January to his responsibilities as chief executive. Ms. Fine said she hoped Interpublic could successfully integrate the True North operations as it dealt with existing issues like improving results at the Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide unit of Lowe.
Some combinations of True North and Interpublic agencies are likely as Interpublic looks for annual cost savings in the $25 million range as a result of the deal. But the largest agency owned by True North, FCB, is to operate as an autonomous worldwide agency network to avoid client conflicts, becoming the third worldwide general advertising agency for Interpublic alongside McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising and Lowe Lintas.
"This is terrific," Brendan Ryan, chief executive at FCB in New York, said during a conference call with analysts to discuss the deal. "We become part of the No. 1 company in our industry.
"No. 1 is good," he added. "Big is good."
Mr. Ryan, Mr. Dooner and Mr. Bell said they believed the autonomous structure would prevent conflict-sensitive clients from leaving FCB, most particularly PepsiCo, which has Tropicana Pure Premium juices at the FCB New York office; additionally, the FCB Chicago office handles the Gatorade brand of energy beverage sold by Quaker Oats, which PepsiCo is in the process of acquiring.
That situation is complicated, however, by the fact that Interpublic itself, rather than an Interpublic agency, was named last year by Coca-Cola to serve as the "brand steward" for the flagship Coca-Cola soft drink. And in 1995, PepsiCo expressed its anxiety when Chiat/Day, which handled the Fruitopia line of beverages for Coca-Cola, was acquired by Omnicom, whose BBDO Worldwide and DDB Worldwide agencies handle PepsiCo brands like Frito-Lay and Pepsi-Cola. That anxiety was conveyed by Omnicom to Coca-Cola, which shifted Fruitopa's account to another agency.
Mr. Ryan, who is to remain chief executive at FCB, recalled that he first met Mr. Dooner three decades ago when Mr. Ryan was the product manager on Minute Rice at General Foods, now part of the Kraft Foods unit of Philip Morris, and Mr. Dooner was the junior media executive on his account at Grey Advertising, now the Grey Worldwide unit of the Grey Global Group.
Mr. Dooner chimed in that Interpublic wanted to acquire True North because "I've got to make sure Brendan Ryan buys that media plan I tried to sell him 30 years ago."
Mr. Bell will become vice chairman at Interpublic after the deal is completed. Until then, he will head a transition team, working with Barry Linsky, executive vice president for planning and business development at Interpublic; Bruce Nelson, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at Interpublic; and Kevin Smith, executive vice president and chief financial officer at True North.
Interpublic will exchange 1.14 shares of its stock for each of the 51 million outstanding shares of True North, which enjoyed a recent runup in its stock price despite the carnage on Wall Street because of speculation that Interpublic, WPP or Havas would make a a takeover bid.
In trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, True North shares closed at $38.12, down $1.19 or 3 percent, and Interpublic shares closed at $34.12, down $1.13 or 3.2 percent.
True North's largest shareholder, the Publicis Groupe in Paris, which owns 9 percent of True North stock, said it would seek more information about the deal before tendering its shares to Interpublic. Publicis, which lost a hostile takeover bid for True North in 1997, described the price Interpublic is paying as at the bottom end of expectations.
That may be true, but True North was not expected to fetch a price well above its current trading price because of the uncertainties caused by the loss to units of Omnicom of all its Chrysler Group assignments. They accounted for 9 percent of True North's revenue and up to 25 percent of its profits.
"I'm very comfortable with the price Interpublic is paying," said Ms. Fine, the Merrill Lynch analyst. "From the True North perspective, shareholders have to be a little disappointed."
Paradoxically, while the loss weakened True North and undoubtedly accelerated its end as an independent agency company, it also made True North more appealing to would-be acquirers like Interpublic that work for other automakers and would have faced conflict problems had a bid for True North proceeded earlier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%) ADVERTISING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (94%); WPP PLC (92%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); YOUNG & RUBICAM INC (72%); COCA-COLA CO (58%); PEPSICO INC (57%); NESTLE SA (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES INC; TRUE NORTH COMMUNICATIONS 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (94%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (92%); WPP (LSE) (92%); OMC (NYSE) (91%); KO (NYSE) (58%); PEP (NYSE) (57%); NESN (SWX) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (92%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (54%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



528 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Pilots at Comair Vote to Reject 5-Year Contract 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: HEBRON, Ky., March 19 

 BODY:
The pilots of Comair, the nation's second-largest regional airline, today rejected a proposed five-year contract.
 More contract talks are scheduled on Friday to try and resolve salary, scheduling and other disputes. 
The rejected contract could lead to a strike as early as next week. 
 President Bush, who has said he was inclined to block airline strikes that could hurt the economy, may also intervene.
Only six of the 1,096 pilots who voted supported the contract offer, said J. C. Lawson, chairman of negotiators for Comair's chapter of the Air Line Pilots Association.
A walkout could idle the airline, the most active carrier at Cincinnati-Northern Kentucky International Airport. Comair has flights to 95 cities in the United States, Canada, Mexico and the Bahamas and serves more than eight million passengers annually.
The president of Comair, Randy Rademacher, said the airline hoped to reach an agreement when the negotiators and a federal mediator meet on Friday in Washington.
"In our industry, it seems that first contracts are often rejected," he said. "A strike is not imminent."
Comair said it would shut down flight operations if the pilots walk out but would keep about 4,000 other employees on the job.
A White House spokesman, Scott Stanzel, said the National Mediation Board had not found that a Comair strike could hurt the region economically, which would allow the president to intervene.
The rejected five-year contract would have given Comair pilots a company-financed retirement program, and increased pay of top-scale pilots to $96,000 from $66,000.
Union leaders said the contract did not offer large enough increases to first-year pilots, who make $17,000 and $29,000 in the second year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (91%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); AIRPORTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; PILOTS; WAGES AND SALARIES 

COMPANY: COMAIR LTD (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (83%); NATIONAL MEDIATION BOARD (55%) COMAIR INC; AIR LINE PILOTS ASSN 

TICKER: COM (JSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BAHAMAS (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



529 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Two drug wholesalers plan to merge in a $2.4 billion stock deal.

BYLINE:  By Kenneth N. Gilpin 

 BODY:
IN a deal that will probably attract regulatory scrutiny, the AmeriSource Health Corporation and the Bergen Brunswig Corporation, the nation's third-and fourth-largest drug wholesalers, said yesterday that they had agreed to merge in a $2.4 billion stock deal. 
 The combined company will have about $35 billion in annual sales and 13,000 to 14,000 employees. It would compete with Cardinal Health Inc. as the nation's biggest drug wholesaler. 
 Under the terms of the agreement, which was approved by the boards of both companies over the weekend, Bergen shareholders will receive 0.37 share of the combined company for each of their shares. The new company will be called AmeriSource-Bergen and will be based in Valley Forge, Pa. 
The deal is termed a merger of equals, but AmeriSource shareholders will own about 51 percent of the company.
The proposed transaction comes on the heels of Cardinal Health's $1.94 billion acquisition of Bindley Western Industries. At the time that acquisition was announced, Bindley was the nation's fifth-largest drug wholesaler. 
Cardinal Health's acquisition was quickly approved by federal regulators. But analysts said the Federal Trade Commission would most likely take a very close look at the proposed combination of AmeriSource and Bergen. 
In 1998, the F.T.C. blocked the $4.5 billion purchase of Bergen by Cardinal Health as well as a proposed $3.2 billion takeover of AmeriSource by McKesson HBOC. The agency argued the deals would put too much power in the hands of McKesson and Cardinal. 
Robert E. Martini, the chairman and chief executive of Bergen, said in a telephone interview yesterday that "we spent a great deal of time" on the question of whether the deal would pass muster with the F.T.C. "We feel a lot more comfortable because the Cardinal Health deal got through very quickly and very easily."
Some analysts offered a more cautious assessment. 
"I think the odds are 60-40 in favor of this deal happening," said Lawrence C. Marsh, an analyst at Lehman Brothers. "The combined national market share would be less than 30 percent, or about the same size as Cardinal-Bindley. It could be hard for the F.T.C. not to scrutinize one deal and then turn around and look hard at the next one."
Leonard Yaffe, an analyst at Banc of America Securities, said the "dynamics of this merger are much more similar to the Cardinal-Bindley merger than they would be to the two mergers that were attempted in 1998."
He continued: "Then, four companies were trying to merge to create two companies. This would leave three big competitors." 
While Bergen is nearly twice as large as AmeriSource in terms of revenue, its market value is smaller. 
Investors have penalized Bergen for problems it faced in 1999 and early last year, when two acquisitions Bergen made stretched its capital and left it with a big debt load. 
Last year, Bergen sold one of those companies, the unprofitable Stadtlander Pharmacy. Bergen, which paid $428 million for the business, sold it to the CVS Corporation, the pharmacy chain, for $124 million. 
Bergen also acquired PharMerica Inc., one of its biggest customers, for $1.1 billion. But changes in Medicare cut into the unit's sales. 
In November 1999, the company fired Donald Roden, who engineered the deals, as president and chief executive. 
Mr. Martini, who served as chief executive until 1997, took the job back and has served as interim chief executive ever since. 
Given the slim operating profit margins in the industry, analysts said combining the two companies made a great deal of sense. But the reaction on Wall Street was less upbeat. 
Shares of Bergen closed at $15.87, down 7 cents, while AmeriSource fell $3.28, to $45.20.
"You need economies of scale," to offset narrow profit margins," said Howard Capek, an analyst at UBS Warburg. "The margins in this business are very thin, and they are not getting any fatter."
Combining the companies will "eliminate an entire corporate overhead structure," he added 
AmeriSource and Bergen said they expected that three years after the deal was completed that they would generate more than $125 million in annual operating savings. 
Executives from the two companies will divide management responsibilities. 
Mr. Martini will become chairman of the combined company. R. David Yost, chief executive of AmeriSource, will be chief executive. 
Mr. Martini said yesterday that he expected the transaction to be completed by late summer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert E. Martini, left, the chairman and chief executive of Bergen Brunswig, and R. David Yost, the chief executive of AmeriSource. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (91%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (90%); MERGERS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); MARKET SHARE (75%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (74%); INTERVIEWS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%) DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: CARDINAL HEALTH INC (93%); AMERISOURCEBERGEN CORP (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (73%) AMERISOURCE HEALTH CORP; BERGEN BRUNSWIG CORP; AMERISOURCE-BERGEN 

TICKER: CAH (NYSE) (93%); ABC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (51%); BAC (LSE) (51%); 8648 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (93%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%) SIC5122 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES; 

PERSON: R DAVID YOST (73%) GILPIN, KENNETH N; MARTINI, ROBERT E; YOST, R DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



530 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Senate Debates McCain's Bill On Campaigns 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
With Senator John McCain urging his colleagues to "take a risk for our country," the Senate opened debate today on legislation to overhaul the nation's campaign finance law and handed Mr. McCain a narrow victory on an early test vote.
 Sharp differences of opinion quickly emerged on the bill, sponsored by Mr. McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Senator Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, that would affect lawmakers quite personally by changing the way the political parties operate. Senators were already reprimanding one another this evening just after the first vote took place. 
 Mr. McCain, who put his effort to limit money in politics at the center of his presidential campaign last year, said that six-figure donations to the political parties were sullying politics. "Any voter," he said, "with a healthy understanding of the flaws of human nature and who notices the vast amounts of money solicited and received by politicians cannot help but believe that we are unduly influenced by our benefactors' generosity." Excerpts, Page A22. 
Senator Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican who has long battled against the bill, soon replied that the effort to end the unregulated, unlimited donations to the parties and to impose new restrictions on issue advertisements, violated the Constitution and would weaken the parties.
"The only way to really get at the core of this problem, if senators believe that the influence of money in politics is so pernicious, is to change the First Amendment," Mr. McConnell said. "The nub of the problem is you can't do most of these things as long as the First Amendment remains as it is."
In a sign of just how byzantine the maneuvering is likely to become as the Senate goes through two weeks of debate on the issue and free-flowing amendments, Mr. McCain and Mr. Feingold almost lost their first, symbolic test of strength in the 50-50 Senate over an amendment designed to assist candidates who run against millionaires.
While such an idea has support in both parties, Mr. McCain sought to defeat an amendment by Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, because it would allow political parties to pour in money to assist a candidate whose opponent had put more than $1 million of his own money into a campaign. Mr. McCain said a different way could be found to approach the problem.
But the provision initially appeared to be passing -- which would have been a blow to the coalition supporting the McCain-Feingold bill. It was defeated 51 to 48 after Democrats huddled and lobbied on the Senate floor and persuaded the Democrats Robert G. Torricelli and Jon Corzine of New Jersey and Herb Kohl of Wisconsin to change their votes. 
Mr. Kohl and Mr. Corzine are both millionaires who were initially trying to vote to aid candidates who face wealthy opponents like themselves.
Seven Republicans voted with the McCain-Feingold coalition, while five Democrats broke with their party to support the amendment. But it was not at all clear where these senators will stand on coming amendments. Senators planned to work over the evening to draft a compromise approach to wealthy candidates.
The day's proceedings were the first time since Republicans took control of Congress in 1995 that Republican leaders agreed to full debate on the McCain-Feingold bill and not kill it off in a filibuster. And few knew what would finally emerge from the Senate, and from an expected free-wheeling amendment process.
Senator Trent Lott, the majority leader from Mississippi, said, "I don't think the chances of McCain-Feingold passing as is are really good." Mr. McConnell said, "I think it would be easier to predict who's going to win the N.C.A.A. tournament." And Mr. McCain said he thought he had more than an even chance of finally pushing his legislation through the Senate on his sixth try after years of being blocked. 
But Mr. McCain said that success would depend on the amendment process and expressed fears that his coalition could be broken up by amendments that "look pretty good and yet are sort of like poison pills." 
The McCain-Feingold bill would ban the unlimited, unregulated donations to the political parties known as "soft money." It would also restrict issue advertisements by labor and corporations that are often thinly disguised advertisements for or against specific candidates within 60 days of a general election and 30 days of a primary and require more disclosure by other outside groups.
A rival bill, sponsored by Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, and encouraged behind the scenes by the White House, would limit the amount of soft money donations that individuals, corporations, committees and labor unions could make to national political parties to $60,000 a year or $120,000 per election cycle. It would also triple the current limits on regulated contributions to candidates. 
Mr. Hagel, who today drew the support of Senator Lott, argued that his approach would keep the political parties strong. "The parties are a vital component of our system," he said, "especially for a challenger to take on a well-financed entrenched incumbent. Who else is there to support that challenger, be they Democrat or Republican unless the challenge is self-financed?" Mr. Hagel's opponents say his measure would do little to stem the flow of money into campaigns.
President Bush has stopped short of endorsing Mr. Hagel's bill, but a set of principles the president released last week were much closer to Mr. Hagel's approach than Mr. McCain's. Mr. Bush called for a ban on soft money contributions by unions and corporations but not by individuals.
Debate was intense throughout the day with an unusual number of senators in the chamber listening to one another. Some senators used charts and pointers to underscore their arguments. Others told tales of how burdensome fund-raising had become. "I've now been through two re-election cycles and it's gotten worse," said Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, telling how he and his 1998 opponent spent more than $20 million in their campaigns in a small state with fewer than 1.5 million people.
Even before the debate opened this afternoon, Mr. McCain showed some of the flare for publicity that marked his presidential run. He and Mr. Feingold led scores of reporters and television cameramen in an antic march through the streets near the Capitol to watch the senators proclaim their opposition to big money fund-raising first in front of the nearby Republican national headquarters and then the Democratic headquarters. Many of Mr. McCain's former campaign aides were on hand, trying to keep the hordes of photographers from banging into road signs and falling over stoops.
As the duo spoke in front of the Republican National Committee, no one emerged. But when they hit Democratic Party headquarters, several staff members came out to watch. Saying that the "party of the people" was now raising $1 million checks, Mr. Feingold declared, "This is not why I became a Democrat and it is not the future of the Democratic Party."
As he spoke, some Democrats unfurled a banner from a top floor window, hastily made with red spray paint, saying: "Democrats support McCain-Feingold. Pass now." Mr. McCain shouted up to them: "Great Americans, up there. God bless you. Send back the checks, guys."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Russell D. Feingold, left, and John McCain before debate on their bill got under way yesterday. (Reuters)(pg. A1) Chart: "COMPARE AND CONTRAST: Millions of Dollars, Three Approaches"A comparison of the main provisions of two bills to overhaul campaign finance, one sponsored by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, and another sponsored by Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, and President Bush's positions on the issue. McCAIN-FEINGOLD BILL SOFT MONEYWould prohibit all soft money contributions to national parties, and would prohibit federal candidates from raising soft money. Would also prohibit state and local party committees from spending soft money on activities related to federal elections. INDIVIDUAL CONTROBUTIONSWould raise the amount of hard money individuals may contribute to state parties for federal election activities to $10,000 from $5,000; would increase the aggregate annual individual hard money contributions to all federal candidates, parties and PAC's to a total of $30,000, from $25,000, but would leave the individual limit of $1,000 per candidate in place. UNIONS AND CORPORATIONSWould require labor unions to notify nonunion employees that they may request a refund of the portion of their union fees used for political purposes. ISSUE ADVERTISINGWould seek to restrict "issue advocacy" advertisements by prohibiting labor unions and for-profit corporations from paying for radio or television advertising that clearly refers to a specific candidate within 30 days of a primary or 60 days of a general election. INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURESRequires timely reporting of independent expenditures on behalf of a candidate to the Federal Election Commission and specifies circumstances in which political activities will be considered "coordinated" with candidates. HAGEL BILL SOFT MONEYWould impose a limit of $60,000 per year, indexed for inflation, on soft money contributions to national party committees by individuals, PAC's, organizations, labor unions and corporations. Would not restrict soft money spending by state parties. INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTIONSWould increase the limit on individual contributions to $3,000 from $1,000. Would increase limit on individual contributions to national party committees to $75,000 per year from $25,000. Would increase limit on PAC contributions to candidates to $7,500 per election from $5,000. UNIONS AND CORPORATIONSNo provisions. ISSUE ADVERTISINGDoes not have any provisions for regulating issue advertisements, but would require all television and radio stations to make public all purchases of political advertising. INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURESNo provisions. BUSH'S POSITION SOFT MONEYWould prohibit soft money contributions from corporations and labor unions, but not from individuals. INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTIONSWould increase the current limit of $1,000 on individual contributions, which was set in 1974. Mr. Bush's campaign documents estimated that if adjusted for inflation, the limit would increase to about $3,400. UNIONS AND CORPORATIONSSupports prohibiting corporations and unions from political spending without permission from shareholders or members. ISSUE ADVERTISINGCalls for "protecting the rights of citizen groups to engage in issue advocacy." INDEPENDENT EXPENDITURESNo explicitly stated position, but Mr. Bush does call in general for the need to protect the "rights of individuals to express their views."(Sources: Offices of Senators John McCain and Chuck Hagel; White House; Congressional Quarterly; Democracy 21)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); POLITICS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ETHICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (73%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (95%); CHUCK HAGEL (93%); RUSS FEINGOLD (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (78%); JON CORZINE (58%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); HERB KOHL (58%) MITCHELL, ALISON; MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); FEINGOLD, RUSSELL D (SEN); HAGEL, CHUCK (SEN); DOMENICI, PETE V (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



531 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
 NEW YORK

MANHATTAN: HOUSING CHIEF QUITS
The chairman of the New York City Housing Authority, John G. Martinez, yesterday announced his resignation, effective April 1. A former senior executive at PaineWebber, he said that he planned to return to the financial industry. A Giuliani administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, denied a report in Newsday that Mr. Martinez was forced out of his post because of clashes with mayoral aides. The official added that the front-runner to fill the housing post was the city's Juvenile Justice commissioner, Tino Hernandez. Bruce Lambert (NYT)

MANHATTAN: MAYOR BACKS ELECTION BILL
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday endorsed federal legislation that would provide $2.5 billion over five years for cities and states to modernize voting systems. A national study would examine new methods of voting to determine which are the most accurate, fastest to tally and easiest for voters. If the legislation, sponsored by Senator Charles E. Schumer, were approved, New York City could get as much as $45 million to help it replace its voting machines, perhaps as soon as November 2002. Eric Lipton (NYT)

MANHATTAN: COLUMBUS CIRCLE PLANS
An advisory panel that helped select the developer for the former New York Coliseum site in Columbus Circle has been reconvened and will examine how to renovate the circle itself and the city-owned building on the south side of the plaza, 2 Columbus Circle. "We are not moving Columbus, he is staying in Columbus Circle," Mayor Giuliani said yesterday. But he said he would welcome changes making the circle more of a gateway to the Upper West Side and Lincoln Center. A new headquarters for AOL Time Warner is scheduled to open in Columbus Circle in late 2003. Eric Lipton (NYT)

MANHATTAN: OFFICER MOVED IN MOLINARI CASE
A detective has been transferred in connection with the January arrest of a man who had written a letter critical of Guy V. Molinari, the Staten Island borough president, police officials said yesterday. The letter sent by the arrested man, Terence Hunter, to Mr. Molinari described Mr. Molinari's decision to close a Staten Island community center as a "high-tech lynching." Police officials said the transferred detective, Joseph Pascone, misunderstood a Molinari aide and then wrongly told police investigators that the borough president's office wanted the matter pursued. The president of the detectives union, Thomas J. Scotto, defended Detective Pascone, saying "He's the fall guy."
Kevin Flynn (NYT)

SYRACUSE: HOSPITAL WORKERS UNIONIZE
Nine hundred and fifty workers at Community General Hospital have decided to join Local 1199Upstate of the Service Employees International Union. The workers will be in three separate bargaining units -- registered nurses, licensed practical nurses and technical employees -- and a combined unit of service, maintenance and clerical employees. Bargaining for the first contract is to begin in April. Steven Greenhouse (NYT)

ALBANY: SILVER TO BE INTERVIEWED
Prosecutors investigating pardons by former President Clinton want to interview Sheldon Silver, speaker of the State Assembly, officials said yesterday. A spokesman for Mr. Silver said he had agreed to the request, which came last week from United States Attorney Mary Jo White. Mr. Silver had accompanied Hillary Rodham Clinton, then a Senate candidate, to New Square in Rockland County last August. Mrs. Clinton won the town in the election, and President Clinton later commuted the sentences of four men from New Square. Mr. Silver said he planned to tell the investigators that "no discussion took place as to a pardon." (AP)

MANHATTAN: CHARAS CENTER FACES EVICTION
An East Village community center faces eviction once again following a decision Friday by a three-judge appeals panel. In February, a jury found that the landlord for the Charas/El Bohio Cultural and Community Center could not evict the center because the landlord did not plan to comply with the deed's requirement that the building be used for community facilities. But lawyers for the landlord, Gregg Singer, appealed an earlier judge's decision that required him to prove that he intended to comply. The appeals panel overturned that judge's decision last week and cleared the way for eviction. Alan Levine, a lawyer for Charas, said that he planned to ask the panel to stop eviction and that the decision favoring Charas still stands. Shaila K. Dewan (NYT)

LONG BEACH: COUNTY EXECUTIVE ENDORSEMENT
Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli won the support of the Long Beach Democratic County Committee yesterday in his bid to become Nassau County executive. Mr. DiNapoli is competing with Mayor Thomas R. Suozzi of Glen Cove for the Democratic nomination. The Long Beach party is considered one of the most powerful Democratic organizations in the county. The incumbent county executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, a Republican, announced last week that he would not run for re-election. Michael Cooper (NYT)

CONNECTICUT

NEW HAVEN: TOP PROSECUTOR TO RESIGN
The United States attorney in Connecticut, Stephen C. Robinson, announced his resignation yesterday, effective April 30, in anticipation of the Bush administration's replacing him with its own appointee. Mr. Robinson, 44, a Democrat, was appointed by President Clinton in 1998 and was the state's first black United States attorney. Paul Zielbauer (NYT)

NEW JERSEY

TRENTON: STATE TREASURER NAMED
Donald T. DiFrancesco, the acting governor, yesterday announced the appointment of Isabel Miranda, a lawyer and banker from Scotch Plains, as state treasurer. She will serve in an acting capacity starting Friday until confirmed by the State Senate. Ms. Miranda, 45, is chairwoman of the board of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. Iver Peterson (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (75%); ELECTION LAW (75%); APPROVALS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); NURSES & NURSING (63%); HOSPITALS (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (66%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (66%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%) SIC2711 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



532 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: With Glare Hitting Clinton, Limelight Eludes Schumer 

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
The senior senator from New York charged out of a subcommittee hearing room the other day and headed for an adjoining hallway, eager to hear how his performance inside went over with the audience.
 "Hey, did you see that?" the senator, Charles E. Schumer, exclaimed to the first aide he spotted, bouncing like a boy who had brought a glowing report card home to his parents. "It was really great. I really nailed them." 
 Even in Washington, Mr. Schumer's efforts to be the center of attention are the stuff of playful humor, if not legend. This is, after all, the man who once showed up at an outdoor festival in New York City with a campaign aide hoisting a sign above the crowd that read, "Come Meet Chuck Schumer." 
But these days, Mr. Schumer is facing intense competition for the spotlight from Hillary Rodham Clinton, New York's newest senator and someone who does not have to lift a finger to get the kind of attention that Mr. Schumer works around the clock to attract.
Mr. Schumer's friends were so concerned that he might shrivel in the limelight of his new colleague, in fact, that they briefly considered having a celebrity-filled party for his 50th birthday on a scale that the Clintons themselves might have staged.
But something strange has happened since Mrs. Clinton took office more than 70 days ago. The junior senator has indeed eclipsed her higher-ranking colleague, but in the same way that a star athlete might overshadow his teammates' on-field heroics with his off-field missteps.
In New York City's relentless media culture, that has meant that just about every aspect of Mrs. Clinton's public and private life has come under almost daily scrutiny. It is not just the swirl of interest over the pardons granted by former President Bill Clinton, including those handed to members of a tight-knit Hasidic enclave in New Square, N.Y., that voted heavily for her. It is also about her hairstyle, her wealthy friends, her marriage and so on.
As a freshman senator, Mrs. Clinton has diligently offered ideas for improving education, reviving the upstate economy of New York and reducing air pollution, among other pressing issues. But the scrutiny will not die down.
The latest round occurred today with a disclosure in The New York Post that Mrs. Clinton's new Senate office, at 780 Third Avenue in Manhattan, costs more than any other office occupied by a United States senator, at an annual rent of $514,149. Her spokesman described the rent as reasonable given Manhattan's real estate market and said more expensive sites had been rejected. Still, her space is more than twice as expensive as Mr. Schumer's Manhattan office.
Some of these comparisons are inevitable. But the publicity focused on Mrs. Clinton leaves Mr. Schumer free to be the club's Cal Ripken, a star in his own right but also a hard-working Joe who shows up every day to do his job. That, at least, is the image his aides have worked diligently to reinforce.
At the same time, Mr. Schumer appears to be trying to escape the long shadow of his new colleague. He recently angered people close to Mrs. Clinton, for instance, by not only refusing to sidestep questions about her husband's controversial pardons but also repeatedly denouncing some of them, especially the pardon of a fugitive financier, Marc Rich, as a miscarriage of justice. 
His aides say he meant no harm by his remarks and was just speaking his mind. But others viewed his public disapproval as an effort to distance himself from Mrs. Clinton, lest he become tarnished by the association. Still, people close to Mr. Schumer say that the more Mrs. Clinton is defined as New York's celebrity senator, the better foil she provides for the Senator Everyman image: the dad with a happy life outside of politics, the guy who still drives a 1991 Ford Taurus.
"They're both brilliant but very different," said Ken Sunshine, a Democratic strategist in New York. "Chuck has no pretensions of being a star, and circumstances have made her the biggest star in Washington."
In other ways, little has changed. Mr. Schumer is the same unabashed self-promoter that he has always been. He holds a news conference somewhere in New York just about every other Sunday, a notoriously slow news day for reporters, to maximize the coverage. He as well as any other politician knows that many pet causes would be squeezed out of the news on weekdays by other, more urgent, items. 
Recently, Mr. Schumer dropped any pretense of modesty when a few constituents showed up at his office here in Washington to discuss some of their concerns. No sooner had the two visitors mentioned a new program that the governor back in New York had created than the senator interrupted. "Did you know that was our idea?" he said. "They took that from us."
He and Mrs. Clinton have yet to compete directly for credit on any legislation, or other matters. He says New York is a big state, with more than enough people and problems to keep two senators busy. "There's so much work to do," he said the other day as he left a news conference where he and Mrs. Clinton announced their support for environmental initiatives. "So we're helping each other, working together."
Mr. Schumer and Mrs. Clinton are as different in their styles as New York's two previous senators were: Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the self-styled intellectual, and Alfonse M. D'Amato, a man known less for his soaring oratory than for his meticulous care of constituent complaints.
Mr. Schumer has a hurried manner and mercurial disposition. He can be thoroughly engaging and funny, like when he mockingly referred to himself as Senator Scuffed Shoe. Or he can be overbearing, elbowing his way into some of the most high-profile debates on Capitol Hill.
Mrs. Clinton, on the other hand, is reserved and sometimes aloof. Even when facing tough and embarrassing questions from reporters, Mrs. Clinton is unflappable, rarely betraying even a hint of anger or combativeness in her tone or gestures.
For all their differences, Mr. Schumer and Mrs. Clinton have tried to get off to a good start. The two have had dinner twice over the last few weeks to discuss issues, and their staffs consult almost daily to keep each other posted on what they are doing.
In the end, though, Mr. Schumer is a one-man show. In news releases and phone calls, he trumpets his success in bringing home money for hospitals, schools and mass-transit projects to a state whose influence has waned in recent years within the nation's capital.
But Mr. Schumer does not want to simply be remembered as a Mr. Fix-it, in the D'Amato tradition. Elected to the Senate in 1998 after 18 years in the House, Mr. Schumer has built on his experience to champion issues like anticrime legislation while serving on the Senate Judiciary Committee. This session, Mr. Schumer is pushing to make college tuition tax-deductible, modernize the nation's aging voting system and bring down the price of prescription drugs by speeding up the process by which they become available to consumers as lower-cost generic drugs.
He has also been an outspoken critic of the new Bush administration, using his position on the Judiciary Committee to try to derail the nomination of John Ashcroft as attorney general and publicize the Bush administration's quiet effort to remove the American Bar Association from the judicial selection process. Mr. Schumer has also worked to shed the image he developed as a fierce partisan during his years in the House. He has reached out to Republicans, most notably Gov. George E. Pataki and Senator John McCain of Arizona. In New York City, he and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani seem to have a warm relationship, and Mr. Schumer's wife, Iris Weinshall, is the mayor's commissioner of transportation.
In the last six months, Mr. Schumer has been at the governor's side several times, much to the chagrin of Democrats who are gearing up to try to unseat Mr. Pataki in 2002.
Ever a pragmatist, Mr. Schumer offers no apologies. "Our job is to work together to get things done," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senators Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton in Washington, at a news conference on federal emission standards. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Senator Charles E. Schumer greeted constituents yesterday near Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); ETHICS (60%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); RELIGION (50%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%) CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN); SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



533 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Japanese Leader Talk, but Officials Then Disagree on What Was Said 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
President Bush and Japan's prime minister, Yoshiro Mori, met today to discuss joint strategies for restoring growth to the world's two largest economies but ended the session with only a vague commitment by Japan to confront its problems.
 "The interrelationship between our two economies is important," Mr. Bush said at a brief photo opportunity with Mr. Mori, noting that the two countries account for roughly 40 percent of the world economy. "The stronger we are, the more likely it is there will be prosperity in other parts of the world." 
 No one expected real agreements from this first meeting between Mr. Mori, a powerless figure in his own party who has hinted that he will resign next month, and Mr. Bush, who is new to many of the complexities of international economic management.
Yet when the two-hour meeting and luncheon at the White House concluded, American and Japanese aides initially gave somewhat differing accounts about a crucial issue in the leaders' conversation: Whether Japan would seek to revive its badly ailing economy by promoting demand at home or by seeking to take advantage of a weakening yen and exporting more cars, steel and other goods to the United States.
The issue is potentially critical for Mr. Bush, as his father can attest from bitter experience in the late 1980's and early 90's. If Japanese goods become cheaper at a time of weak consumer demand in the United States, the result could be accelerated layoffs in American factories. 
"The president did note that some in Japan felt that the best solution was to export their way out of the problem," a senior administration official said in a briefing at the White House. "But he emphasized, and the two leaders agreed, that the answer is strong domestic growth brought about by deep, structural reform."
Two hours later, a Japanese official said Mr. Mori had made no such agreement. But tonight, after additional inquiries, Ichiro Fujisaki, a senior diplomat who sat in on the meetings, said that while Mr. Mori made no explicit mention of Japan's export strategy, "we are not aiming at export-led growth." Mr. Fujisaki said that actions today by the Bank of Japan should strengthen consumer purchasing in Japan.
Condoleezza Rice, President Bush's national security adviser, added this evening, "They were very clear on the steps that need to be taken to make Japan's economy grow" at home.
Today's meeting was intended primarily to signal to Japan that the new administration is ready to revitalize relations with Tokyo, after four years of trade disputes during the Clinton administration and another four of disputes over Japan's unwillingness to reform its stricken banking system.
Clearly neither the White House nor the Japanese government were in a mood to expose either leader to intense questioning on those subjects. While President Bill Clinton had used the first visit here by a Japanese prime minister as a moment to hold a joint news conference and a public debate with his counterpart about economic reform, Mr. Bush and Mr. Mori took only one question, during a brief photo opportunity in the Oval Office. 
Mr. Bush provided the answer, a relief to Japanese officials, who are all too aware that Mr. Mori's misstatements have contributed to the calls for him to resign. 
Listening to the American and Japanese officials describe the meeting later, it was difficult at times to believe that they had been in the same room.
The Japanese dwelled on the talks about China, Russia and North Korea, discussing the issues surrounding North Korea's continued development of the Nodong missile. They skimmed over Mr. Mori's economic discussions, saying he had spent much of the time giving Mr. Bush a seminar on the last 10 years of Japanese economic management, little of it a pretty story.
The White House, eager to show that Mr. Bush was engaging the world's second-largest economy on questions of economic reform, dwelled on a joint statement issued by Mr. Bush and Mr. Mori, noting that Japan had committed itself to "effectively addressing the issues of corporate debt and nonperforming loans."
"We were heartened by the unusually explicit acknowledgment of the nonperforming loan problem," said the senior Bush administration official, who under rules set by the White House could not be named.
But this was hardly the first time the Japanese government has acknowledged the issue, which dates to the early 1990's: It has spent hundreds of billions of dollars bailing out banks, though it has stopped short of closing insolvent banks and selling the real estate they hold.
At the Treasury Department and the White House, officials were relieved by the Bank of Japan's decision, just hours before the meeting, to effectively begin printing money and keep doing so until it brought Japan's increasingly dangerous deflation to an end. The strategy brings Japan's already rock-bottom interest rates to zero, and increases the liquidity of Japan's struggling banks.
But the liquidity is aimed at "overnight money," the money banks keep in their short-term reserves. And that means, many analysts said, that much of it may go to the purchase of dollars, so that the banks (or their borrowers) can earn a higher rate of return.
"No one buys a house or builds a factory with overnight money," said Kenneth Courtis, vice chairman for Asia at Goldman, Sachs. "The banks, the hedge funds, you name it are going to go to U.S. currency."
The result could be a weaker yen, and that could pose the next major Japan challenge for Mr. Bush. A weak yen could increase America's trade deficit, an issue that was dormant in Congress as long as the economy was growing, but is already becoming a point of contention. That issue plagued Mr. Bush's father in 1991 and 1992, and contributed to his defeat, a point the current president understands well.
Mr. Bush's second challenge is to find ways to persuade Japan to move ahead quickly with the commitments in today's statement, "deregulation, restructuring, and foreign direct investment." 
His father started on that path, and Mr. Clinton continued along it. But it became clear to both presidents that the United States has little leverage when it comes to changing Japan faster than the government, the bureaucracy and the Japanese corporate leaders want to change. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TRENDS (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (71%); TRADE DISPUTES (69%); JAPANESE YEN (66%); LAYOFFS (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BANKS AND BANKING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (52%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (56%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MORI, YOSHIRO (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



534 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Powell Shifts Emphasis of Mideast Policy 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
In the Bush administration's first major description of its Middle East policy, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell drew a sharp distinction today from the Clinton administration's strategy of engagement in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, saying, "The United States stands ready to assist, not insist."
 General Powell, speaking on the first day of a visit here by the new Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, said that this did not mean that the status quo should be allowed to stand, but that it was the parties themselves who needed to start a dialogue. 
 In an address to a conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, General Powell passionately echoed Mr. Sharon's phrase that the violence between the Israelis and Palestinians "must stop." 
Later, at the same conference, Mr. Sharon focused on terrorism as the scourge of the region and said the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, was returning to the belief that Palestinians "can defeat Israel by means of armed struggle." 
"Arafat is willing to destabilize the entire Middle East, including moderate Arab regimes, in order to achieve his goals," Mr. Sharon said. 
The new prime minister, who is being welcomed here with respect but caution, is remembered as the Israeli housing minister who was responsible for the aggressive expansion of settlements a decade ago during former President Bush's administration. James A. Baker III, who was secretary of state at the time, wrote in his memoirs that Mr. Sharon was an "obstacle to peace." 
Mr. Sharon is trying to paint a different picture now, and after six months of violence between the Israelis and Palestinians, the Israeli Foreign ministry has hired two New York City public relations firms -- Rubenstein Associates Inc., and Morris, Carrick and Guma -- to burnish Israel's image in the United States. 
For its part, the Bush administration has helped Mr. Sharon with some recent diplomatic moves. The Bush White House has not invited Mr. Arafat to Washington, although it has invited the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak, and King Abdullah of Jordan. Mr. Arafat was a frequent visitor to the Clinton White House. 
Further, Mr. Bush called America's Arab allies soon after the election of Mr. Sharon and asked them to give him "a chance," administration officials said. 
As Mr. Sharon began his visit, violence continued at home. Palestinian gunmen killed a 58-year-old settler, Baruch Cohen of Efrat, in a drive-by shooting on the West Bank today.
Brig. Gen. Benny Gantz, the Israeli commander for the West Bank, charged that the gunmen had taken advantage of what he said were Israel's loosened restrictions on Palestinian movement. After reports that the gunmen had fled past Palestinian checkpoints into the Bethlehem area, Israel sealed the city. Settlers called for the Israeli Army to reinstate a blockade of all major Palestinian cities and to keep Palestinian cars off the highways.
The shooting followed what the Israeli Army said was the first Palestinian mortar attack on southern Israel from Gaza since 1967. It wounded an Israeli soldier.
Foreign Minister Shimon Peres, referring to the shooting and the shelling, said, "This is something that cannot be carried out with the authoritative body, Palestinian officialdom, being aware of it."
During a women's protest march north of Jerusalem, Hanan Ashrawi, a prominent Palestinian lawmaker, was slightly wounded in a leg when Israeli soldiers lobbed a stun grenade at the demonstration. Palestinian officials said several other women had also been wounded slightly. 
The tone of General Powell's speech -- called by State department officials a "minimalist" approach to peace talks in contrast to the "maximum" approach of the Clinton administration -- appeared to appeal to the audience. General Powell was warmly received, and there was boisterous applause for some lines in his speech, especially those referring to the United States strengthening its "strategic cooperation" with Israel. 
There was no mention in the speech of a "peace process" -- a favorite phrase of the Clinton administration. General Powell has abolished the office of the special Middle East coordinator, a title held in the by Dennis B. Ross. 
The secretary moved beyond the specifics of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and addressed its regional context, urging Arab nations to be "voices of moderation." It is most "unfortunate" that no Arab nation maintains a resident ambassador in Israel, he said.
Soon after the violence between the Israelis and Palestinians began last fall, Egypt and Jordan, which have peace treaties with Israel, withdrew their ambassadors. 
General Powell touched on Iran and Iraq, apparently giving a nod to the Clinton administration's efforts to find some common ground with moderates in Iran. "We are aware of the intellectual and political foment taking place within Iran, and we will continue to watch developments there closely and hopefully," he said. 
On Iraq, he said he would have more to say "after the completion of our policy review" but repeated his theme that the United States is trying to strengthen the international coalition forged 10 years ago during the Persian Gulf war. 
At Blair House, Mr. Sharon met with General Powell; the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice; the director of central intelligence, George J. Tenet; and Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld. 
Afterward, a senior State department official said General Powell had urged Mr. Sharon to take steps to ease the economic pressures on the Palestinians caused by the Israeli blockade on goods and people moving in and out of the Palestinian territories. 
In response, the official said, Mr. Sharon said that he was taking some steps -- like easing the movement of goods -- but that he was finding it difficult to move forward because he had seen little reciprocity from the Palestinian authorities. 
"We understand that it is difficult to take steps with the violence going on, but we also believe that it's important to give people a sense of confidence," the official said of the call for Israel to ease the economic hardship on ordinary Palestinians. 
Before his meetings, the Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported that Mr. Sharon was prepared to tell the administration that he would evacuate a number of Israel settlements in Gaza if Mr. Arafat was ready to agree to "interim agreements" toward peace.
But the State Department official said Mr. Sharon had not raised the question of settlements in his discussion with General Powell. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 28, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 20 about the Bush administration's Middle East policy misstated a word in a comment from Foreign Minister Shimon Peres of Israel, on the fatal shooting of an Israeli and on a mortar attack on southern Israel. He said such attacks "cannot be carried out without the authoritative body, Palestinian officialdom, being aware of it." He did not say "with the authoritative body."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, left, met yesterday with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who described a new approach to the Mideast. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); SHOOTINGS (88%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (77%); TERRORISM (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); ARMIES (64%) PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: RUBENSTEIN ASSOCIATES INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (65%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (65%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (50%) PERLEZ, JANE; SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ARAFAT, YASIR; CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); EGYPT (79%); JORDAN (79%) ISRAEL; 

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



535 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Energy Chief Sketches Plans To Curb Rules Limiting Supply 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 19 

 BODY:
Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham said today that the nation faced a "major energy supply crisis" akin to the oil embargoes of the 1970's and indicated that the Bush administration intended to overhaul regulations to ease fuel exploration and help energy production and distribution.
 Mr. Abraham, outlining the agenda for President Bush's energy task force, said rising electricity and natural gas prices were serious enough to tip the nation into recession. Only a major push to eliminate environmental and other regulatory obstacles to increased supplies will alleviate shortages, he said. 
 "The bad news is that the situation in California is not isolated, it is not temporary, and it won't fix itself," Mr. Abraham said.
But like several other Bush administration officials who have warned of an energy crisis in recent weeks, Mr. Abraham did not mention any policy initiatives that would help California or other states to limit price spikes or increase supplies. He said detailed initiatives would come in several weeks, when Mr. Bush's task force submits recommendations for legislation and rule changes to promote energy production.
President Bush, speaking as he met with his energy team at the White House this afternoon, said the focus was long term. "One thing is for certain: there are no short-term fixes," he said. 
The administration has sought to use California's problems to promote the opening of more federal land, including 1.5 million acres on the coastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, for oil and natural gas drilling and coal mining. The opening of the Alaskan wilderness was the only specific policy change that Mr. Abraham endorsed today in a lengthy address on energy problems to industry executives gathered for an energy conference here.
"While the resources of A.N.W.R. won't make us energy independent, they will help increase America's energy security by ensuring a more diverse supply of oil," he said, adding that oil and gas exploration would proceed on only a small percentage of the wilderness.
But that aspect of the Bush energy plan seems likely to face stiff resistance in Congress, where many Democrats oppose the drilling in the wilderness for environmental reasons. 
A group of 500 scientists, organized by leading environmental groups, plans to present a letter to Mr. Bush on Tuesday urging him to reconsider making drilling in the Alaskan refuge a centerpiece of his energy strategy.
Environmental leaders also criticized Mr. Abraham's comments about California, arguing that the administration was using the crisis there as a cover to advance the energy industry's agenda. "It's distressing that California's crisis is being used as a pretext for outmoded and misguided national energy policies," said Hal Harvey, president of the Energy Foundation, a partnership of foundations that promote energy efficiency and renewable energy.
The renewed focus on energy policy also came just after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries decided to lower oil production, a move that threatens to increase gasoline prices as the summer driving season approaches.
Mr. Bush often said during the campaign that he would work to increase foreign oil supplies through quiet diplomacy with Arab producers. Administration officials acknowledged today that Mr. Abraham had sought to persuade OPEC leaders to maintain or increase production levels.
"The actions taken this weekend were disappointing," said Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, "but that won't stop the president from continuing the outreach to talk to our allies, to talk to our friends, and working toward a long-term approach so that the supplies are stable."
Mr. Abraham told the energy conference, held at the United States Chamber of Commerce, that energy problems were already having a profound effect on the economy. He cited an estimate from the National Association of Manufacturers that rising fuel prices from 1999 to 2000 cost American business and consumers more than $115 billion, knocking roughly a full percentage point off overall economic growth.
While he declined to discuss detailed policy proposals to address the energy crisis, Mr. Abraham indicated that environmental protections would be a target. He said the administration wanted to find a middle ground between environmental concerns and the need for new energy supplies, but criticized the Clinton administration on the ground that it had leaned too far in the direction of protecting the environment.
He said oil companies were unwilling to build refineries in this country, at least in part because the government required them to provide some 15 types of gasoline to meet various regional antipollution standards.
The nation has rapidly become more dependent on natural gas, Mr. Abraham said. But he added that 40 percent of potential gas reserves in this country were on federal lands that were closed to exploration, suggesting that some of those reserves needed to be opened to help bring down soaring natural gas prices.
He also cited estimates that electricity demand would grow by 45 percent over the next 20 years and that the nation needed to add 90 power plants a year to keep up with that demand. That will happen only if power companies break through the logjams that have made it difficult to build such plants, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush met yesterday with his energy team, including Interior Secretary Gale A. Norton and Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); WILDERNESS (86%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (79%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (76%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (74%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (69%); COAL MINING (50%); WILDLIFE (50%) ENERGY AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL); ENVIRONMENT; SHORTAGES; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) KAHN, JOSEPH; ABRAHAM, SPENCER (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001 



536 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Retirement; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: THE POLITICS OF AGING; 
Of Social Security and Saving

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
CONGRESS has embarked on a great debate over the future of Social Security and Medicare. In the next few years, politicians, health policy experts, actuaries and lobbyists will dissect scores of proposals of mind-numbing complexity.
 How should people prepare for the looming changes? The answer, said Marilyn Moon, an economist at the Urban Institute, can be summarized in three words: "Save like crazy." 
 "Even under the promises of current law, Social Security and Medicare need to be supplemented by other income," said Ms. Moon, who was also a public trustee for the two programs. 
Dallas L. Salisbury, the president of the Employee Benefit Research Institute, a private nonpartisan group, agrees. "On average, Medicare covers 54 percent of annual medical costs for retirees," Mr. Salisbury said. "No matter how Medicare is reformed, and even if it helps pay for prescription drugs, individuals will need to have more money available to pay medical expenses or to buy health insurance."
A new poll by The New York Times suggests that more people are saving for retirement front page, this section . Mr. Salisbury said the findings were consistent with surveys by his organization, but he added, "Most people still are not saving enough."
The proposals for revamping Social Security and Medicare are inspired, in part, by a judgment that the programs will be financially unsustainable in the long run, as millions of baby boomers retire. Members of Congress know the costs will rise rapidly and would like to make them more predictable. 
The politics of the issues are so volatile that lawmakers may forgo a major overhaul of either program, at least for the next 5 to 10 years, settling for piecemeal changes instead. But the direction of the changes is clear: they are likely to shift more of the cost -- or at least more of the financial risk -- to beneficiaries.
The prospect of such changes injects an element of uncertainty into the retirement plans of aging baby boomers; that, in turn, strengthens the case for them to save more.
Mr. Salisbury recommends that workers save 16 percent to 20 percent of their take-home pay. Then, he said, they have a reasonable prospect that their retirement savings and Social Security will fully replace the income they earned when they were working.
"One thing workers should not do in anticipation of Social Security reform is to reduce other savings, or contributions to 401(k) plans or individual retirement accounts," he said. "Personal Social Security accounts would be a substitute for part of your current Social Security benefit, not for private savings."
One of the more popular proposals would allocate 2 percentage points of the current 12.4 percent payroll tax to personal savings accounts. For many people, Mr. Salisbury said, such savings are unlikely to amount to very much, even if the money is allowed to accumulate for 30 or 40 years. "You would not want to change your behavior in anticipation of the income from such an account," he said. 
Reducing poverty among the elderly has been one of the great achievements of Social Security, and despite the recent gains in the stock market and the overall economy, many older people depend heavily on their monthly checks. For 63 percent of beneficiaries, Social Security provides at least half of their total income, according to government data; 18 percent of recipients have no other source of income.
People worried about changes in Medicare should check with their employers to see if they can qualify for health benefits after retirement, experts say. Such employer-sponsored benefits typically supplement Medicare, which is much less comprehensive than the health insurance that many workers now receive from their employers. Medicare, for example, does not generally cover prescription drugs outside the hospital. President Bush and Congressional leaders have promised to fill this gap, but Congress may begin with a limited program because lawmakers fear that the costs may become enormous. 
Some employers that provide health benefits to workers do not offer coverage to retirees. And some employers that offer retiree health benefits stipulate that workers must have been employed for a certain number of years before they can qualify. The rules for a worker's spouse may be stricter still.
Proposals to revamp Medicare generally encourage employers to continue providing health benefits to retirees, and several major proposals in Congress offer subsidies to employers. So experts say workers would be well advised to check on the health benefits they will receive after retirement.
A common theme running through the proposals to redesign Social Security and Medicare is that workers and retirees should take more responsibility for planning, arranging and financing the benefits they receive in retirement. It is, experts say, never too early to start preparing for such awesome tasks. 

Big Programs And Big Questions
WASHINGTON
During his campaign for president, George W. Bush proposed major changes in Social Security and Medicare, embracing ideas that had already begun to gain support in Congress. He said workers should be able to divert part of their Social Security payroll taxes into private savings accounts. A person earning $30,000 a year might, for example, be allowed to put $600 a year into a private account. 
Advocates for such a change say, in the words of the Cato Institute, a research center here, that Social Security is a "bad investment." They point out that money in the Social Security trust fund is invested in special government securities, which, over the long term, have produced a lower return than the stock market.
Critics of such proposals reply that the markets can be risky, and that the amount of money in an individual account at the time of retirement would depend, in part, on how wisely a person had invested. They add that diverting money from payroll taxes would have the effect of drawing down the trust fund, which is expected to begin running short of cash in the 2030's.
Many of the proposals for changes in Medicare assume that beneficiaries want more choice in the type of health insurance they receive after reaching the eligibility age, now 65.
Congress is seriously exploring proposals that would give beneficiaries financial incentives to enroll in private health plans. The traditional fee-for-service program would still be run by the government, but would compete for enrollment with approved private plans. The government would pay part of the cost, or the premium, in either case.
Supporters of this approach say it would encourage beneficiaries to select the plan offering the best coverage for the lowest cost. Critics say this is a recipe for cutting the benefits of people with chronic illnesses and disabilities. Many of them would end up in the traditional fee-for-service program, critics say, and the federal payment on their behalf would be inadequate to cover the costs.
 ROBERT PEAR

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); AGING (90%); LOBBYING (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LEGISLATION (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); AGING TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); US 401K PLANS (74%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%) SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (58%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



537 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Retirement; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: SECOND STARTS; 
In This Career, The Investment Is in Young Minds

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN 

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
"HOW'D we do last night?" Richard S. Pechter, veteran investment banker, asked Carlos Mora, his eager protege.
 Lucent is down, the earnest young man said sheepishly. Microsoft, too. "I want to buy I.B.M.," he suggested. 
 "Do it," Mr. Pechter said. "I think that's a good buy. What do you want to sell?" 
Mr. Pechter, 55, retired in January 2000 as the chairman of the financial services group at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, where he oversaw 6,000 employees and $2 billion in annual revenue. Now his main client is 16-year-old Carlos, who plays an Internet stock market game with fake money as a charter member of the Wall Street Club here at Liberty High School, where Mr. Pechter is drawing a $37,000 salary as a first-year algebra teacher.
"I was at the very top of Wall Street, the very top firm, the very top guy," mused Mr. Pechter, whose dwindling hair is gray and white. "Now I'm at the very bottom. You can't be any lower in the system than I am.
"The irony of it is, it's pretty satisfying to impact one kid," he added. "I'm glad now that I will not reach the age of 80 and only have looked at one world."
Mr. Pechter, a graduate of Yale and of Harvard Business School, is part of a small but growing cohort of retirees returning to the classroom, not as volunteer mentors or as tutors but as full-time teachers, often in the nation's most impoverished schools. (Liberty, for example, is a small alternative high school for students who struggled in traditional classrooms.) With states and school districts scrambling to find 2.5 million new teachers over the next decade, many are seeking unconventional candidates, including those who are closing out one career but who have time and energy for another. As people live longer yet retire earlier, or string together multiple careers, many see teaching as a way to get involved in their communities and work on one of society's most vexing problems.
"This is largely an untapped pool," said Mildred Hudson, the chief executive of Recruiting New Teachers, a nonprofit organization in Belmont, Mass. "It's an important missing link in the recruitment efforts around the country."
In recent years, 40 states have adopted programs that allow non education majors to be certified as teachers after a few weeks or months of training. Most focus on recent graduates or midlife career changers; of the 4,100 people enrolled in California's 75 alternative certification programs, just 7 percent are 50 or older. But experts say retirees often make the best recruits.
Troops to Teachers, established by Congress in 1994, has sent nearly 4,000 retired soldiers and sailors into classrooms across the country. California State University at Dominguez Hills set up a similar program for retired aerospace engineers during the recession in the early 1990's, and Drexel University in Philadelphia joined with General Electric to help about 75 retirees become math and science teachers in local high schools.
"It's not just who you look for, but how you help them learn to teach," said Linda Darling-Hammond, a professor of education at Stanford University, where two dot-com millionaires who retired early are studying to become teachers. "We make a mistake in education thinking about who to recruit without thinking about how they should be trained."
Principals and people who operate certification programs say that compared with other new teachers, retirees bring experiences that help children see practical applications for what they are learning. Their maturity and patience often lead to better classroom management and relationships with students' parents. With their own children grown and gone and pensions kicking in, many have fewer financial worries.
And while retirees may be a shorter-term investment for schools than career switchers -- "I don't think I can live long enough to be a master teacher," Mr. Pechter said with a laugh -- they come to the classroom out of a desire to teach, rather than out of frustration with a previous job.
"That's what I always wanted to do since I was in grade school," said Thomas McGurk, 61, a retired psychiatrist who is applying for a teaching job in Kansas City, Mo. "I can do what I want to do now."
Besides Mr. McGurk, the Kansas City Teaching Fellows program -- similar to a current New York campaign to bring new people into the city's weakest schools -- attracted a 68-year-old man who was a missionary minister in Africa and Germany, among other places; a 57-year-old woman who worked in banking and real estate for 28 years; and a 53-year-old man who has read 78 books in the four months since selling his transportation business. In St. Petersburg, Fla., Eckerd College's new alternative certification program includes a former government worker, a vacuum cleaner salesman and a supervisor of a paper company.
A recent television commercial for Fidelity Investments depicts a retired chemical engineer mangling names during attendance in his first day as a chemistry teacher. "I'm very excited and a little bit nervous," says the character, a Mr. Foley. "I'm a lot nervous."
Mr. Pechter, who produced the 1997 Tony award-winning musical "Titanic," slept late and took piano lessons for the first six months of his retirement. Then, last summer, he went to Houston for six weeks of boot-camp training as part of Teach for America, the decade-old program that has placed more than 5,000 recent college graduates in urban and rural schools. (Mr. Pechter was twice the age of his fellow corps members, some of whom are friends of his youngest daughter, a student at Sarah Lawrence College.)
The learning curve has sometimes been as steep as the quadratic equations Mr. Pechter was reviewing with his students the other day. 
First, after relying on a secretary for decades, he had to figure out how to work a photocopy machine. More slowly, he has discovered that "it doesn't matter what I teach, it matters what you learn," and rejiggered his lesson plans to be less teacher-centered. (Instead of lecturing, he now reviews for exams by playing bingo, the students solving problems and circling answers on game cards.) After a student asked, "Why do you have to make this so complicated?" Mr. Pechter redefined his goals: "I'm not trying to get them to be sophisticated users of the quadratic formula, I'm trying to get them to know that there is a formula."
For Liberty students, the lessons of hard work, responsibility and setting achievable goals, Mr. Pechter says, are as important as those in his math textbook. "I want them to win," he said, seated at his desk beneath his framed degrees and a stock certificate from his company's going public. "I want them to see what it feels like to win."
Wealthy retirees like Mr. Pechter could help students in other ways, of course -- by paying for their college education, for example. But teaching has had a deeper effect on him. 
He says he listens better now. He has a more nuanced understanding of President Bush's education proposals. He has even reignited a relationship with his former wife, Kayla, a nurse practitioner at a Jersey City emergency room, who said: "I wanted him to have that experience where you touch one person's life. What it means to have one kid smile at you, one kid learn the equation."
As an executive, Mr. Pechter spent most of the day sitting; now he stands a lot more. He has traded in his briefcase for a backpack, swapped a spacious 49th-floor office in New York's financial district for a sweaty, windowless basement classroom tucked under a 99-cent store. He gave all his suits to his son.
But each morning as he drives to work from his home in Summit, N.J., Mr. Pechter still sees the sun rise over the Manhattan skyline. And since Carlos Mora has a portfolio to maintain, Mr. Pechter still keeps one eye on the stock market.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A LONG WAY FROM WALL STREET -- Richard S. Pechter, retired invvestment banker, left, teaches algebra in Jersey City. He also takes teacher education classes, far left. (Photographs by Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (74%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (69%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (69%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; RETIREMENT 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: PECHTER, RICHARD S; WILGOREN, JODI 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



538 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Retirement; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1730 words

HEADLINE: SECOND STARTS; 
These Retirees Are Not In Kansas Anymore

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER 

DATELINE: SAN MIGUEL DE ALLENDE, Mexico 

 BODY:
WHEN Gene Maxon, an Oklahoma oilman then pushing 70, first vacationed in this small colonial city eight years ago, he ran into Philip J. Maher, the American consul here.
 "You know, Gene," Mr. Maher said, "if you live here more than half the time, you stop aging -- and I suggest you start now." 
 That was no joke, said Mr. Maher, a retired Air Force colonel who has been the consul since 1983. "People come here to live," he said. "They go to Florida to die." 
There is no fountain of youth in San Miguel de Allende. But there is an American circle of nearly 4,000 retirees who have brewed their own rejuvenating mix of congeniality, community service and cocktails under a constant sunshine. They are among an uncounted number of Americans 50 and older -- the estimates run well over 100,000 -- who call themselves retired and have made Mexico their home, settling in places like San Miguel de Allende in the state of Guanajuato and Ajijic in the state of Guadalajara, transforming them into bilingual and bicultural communities that bear little resemblance to the exclusive gated and guarded enclaves found in the swath from Florida to Southern California.
Mr. Maxon and his wife, Sandra, sold their business, said goodbye to Tulsa, Okla., and moved to San Miguel with no regrets. "People back home ask why we are here," Mr. Maxon said. "It's peaceful, it's quiet, there's no violence. This is a cosmopolitan place, full of well-educated, interesting people -- they entertain us. There is something to see or do here every day of the week. And it's springtime year round.
"I grew up in Clyde, Kan., population 1,500," he said. "And San Miguel reminds me of that small Midwest town in the 1950's where everybody knew everybody. San Miguel, though it's much larger, has that same air of peacefulness."
It may sound like paradise, but it is not -- not exactly. The American influx has swelled San Miguel de Allende from a quiet town of 25,000 three decades ago to a small city of roughly 100,000 today.
The American arrival began more than 50 years ago with a trickle of artsy adventurers and bohemian-minded World War II veterans financed by the G.I. Bill. The trickle became a stream in the 70's and a bona fide phenomenon in the 90's. Now the cobblestone streets are jammed with cars on weekends, and the gorgeous colonial buildings, which lend the city its lost-in-time feeling, are harder for locals to afford. Most of the Americans are much richer than most of the Mexicans in San Miguel, many of whom make their living farming and tending shops, not living off stock dividends. 
This creates some resentment, though it tends to stay under the surface, with natives praising the Americans for their wealth and good deeds, and on rare occasions quietly cursing the changes they have wrought. It also creates a small but significant theft problem, though there is very little violent crime. Still, some Americans "can't cope with the contrast between the slums and the million-dollar houses," said Marjorie Zap, a 76-year-old retired economist who has lived here for five years.
If anyone has ideas about hopping in a recreational vehicle and moving here to live like royalty off of Social Security, forget about it. The cost of living has probably gone up tenfold since 1970, and it cannot be done on much less than $1,500 a month. And those who have never experienced life outside the United States are unlikely to make a go of it in Mexico.
But pleasures abound for people who are intrepid, slightly offbeat, willing to live life in a different cultural rhythm and able to give something back.
Many of the retirees living here came on vacation and had a eureka experience: the flash of knowing that This Is the Place. Tony and Shirley Adlerbert were among them. They had a nice life in the States -- a good home in Vermont, plenty of money, few worries, childless by choice and contentedly so. They came down to San Miguel for a vacation in 1991.
"I sat in the Jardin" -- the leafy town square -- "and I felt all the stress melt away," said Ms. Adlerbert, a human-resources manager for 35 years. "The tranquillity -- people want to have it, to take it home with them."
Instead of leaving that feeling behind, the Adlerberts spent their second week of vacation buying a home. They have lived here full time for six years. He is the executive director and she is the treasurer of Feed the Hungry, which runs 12 kitchens feeding 1,500 of San Miguel's poorest children. He plowed his experience as the chief executive of an investment firm in Vermont into running the charity, and while that involves lots of work, he looks like a happy man.
"We came here to recapture a life that just doesn't exist anymore in the United States," he said. "It's like a little village."
Yes, but a bustling one. "I was always in a corporate environment, and I never had any free time," Mrs. Adlerbert said. "Here you can be as busy as you want to be -- and I am busy. Sometimes I say to Tony, 'What happened to retirement?' "
That is an interesting question. Carl Franz, a co-author of "The People's Guide to Mexico," recalls that a tourist once asked, "What do you people actually do here in San Miguel de Allende?"
The answer was, "Well, you either do good or play golf," Mr. Franz said. 
San Miguel has become too cosmopolitan for his taste. Mr. Franz lived there for nearly 30 years, moving to Ajijic (pronounced ah-hee-HEEK) two years ago. There is a friendly war, sometimes not that friendly, between the two communities, the San Miguel crowd looking down their noses somewhat at Ajijic, whose partisans sneer at the perceived snobbery of San Miguel, and both accusing the other of being too fond of cocktails.
Ajijic, on the banks of Lake Chapala, is more low-key, though it boasts its own film festival and other artistic attributes. Robert and Bonnie Kleffel moved there from San Diego last year, buying and remodeling a house. Housing costs are a third to half of what they would be in California, Mr. Kleffel said, and "everything we need -- food, clothing, medical, entertainment and interesting friends -- is within walking distance." The advent of free trade means there are few consumer goods that Americans cannot find in Mexico.
Mr. Kleffel said there is "some division in the expatriate community." On the other side are people who isolate themselves from Mexico, living behind gates, watching only American television shows, eating only American food, speaking only English and just to fellow Americans. 
Mr. Franz, who has traveled to almost every corner of Mexico, said the American communities in this country have become "another form of the American melting pot, breaking down some of the economic and class differences we have in the U.S. and like to think we don't." 
"In San Miguel, in particular, you have that mix: starving artists, single or divorced or widowed women without much money who tend to be more adventurous than single men, writers and poets -- probably an unhealthy number of poets -- artists, sculptors, people with real reputations in these fields, and then a huge moneyed cocktail circuit," he said.
He also identified a species of Americans here "who come down thinking it's going to be paradise for peanuts, people who don't have a clue about the culture, complaining about the servants, complaining about people not being on time, not being able to get a phone installed in two days, people who don't understand the difference between a truly wealthy country and one that is struggling," he said. "But there are those people who are really doing good works -- on the environment, working with orphans, helping with the library, which is a wonder."
An unscientific sample of the American community in San Miguel suggests that the good-works crowd is doing much better than the martinis-for-lunch bunch -- although some people doubtless engage in both. They have built a new hospital, helped fix up San Miguel's fountains, set up two major music festivals and started most of San Miguel's 100 or so charities. Dr. William T. Harrison, who is 80 and lives here with his wife of 10 years, June S. Holly, a doctor of education and social activist, makes "a lot more house calls than I did in Houston, and here I can be of service without H.M.O.'s and Blue Cross."
Medicine costs about a third of what it does in the States, which helps because coverage under Blue Cross and Blue Shield expires after 60 days in Mexico, Dr. Harrison said. (Medicare does not provide coverage outside the United States.) Colonel Maher had a knee replaced in the new hospital; the surgery cost $4,000, about a tenth of what it would in the States, he said. An X-ray costs $6, a visit to the dentist, $40. San Miguel's steep, stony streets are challenging for people with bad joints. Still, Ms. Zap said, "If you are infirm, there are people in the community who can take care of you." Like the Community of Hope, an ecumenical group in which Ms. Holly is active. Ms. Zap added, "I plan to stay here till I die." Most Americans here choose to have life-or-death surgery in the United States, and new commercial flights from the city of Leon nearby means they can wake up in San Miguel and be in a hospital in Houston or Los Angeles by afternoon.
The nearness of the United States also means that children can visit with ease. "One difficulty in making the move is leaving the kids behind," said Russ Archibold, 77, a semiretired management consultant. Most of San Miguel's retirees live in fairly spacious homes with room for guests -- remodeled colonial houses or fancy new ones that in the United States would cost two to three times San Miguel's going rate of about $250,000. Of course, people don't want to feel as if they are running a hotel, Mr. Archibold said -- "so we built a house with only one extra bedroom."
Mexico requires retirees from abroad to obtain a resident visa, which can take months, and to prove they have an income of roughly $18,000 or more a year. Sorting out visas, building permits and car registrations may require a lawyer -- Mexico's bureaucracy can be byzantine, but even Eden had its snake. 
Of course, Americans always like to improve on paradise. But as Mr. Archibold said over a $2 breakfast the other day, San Miguel may be as close as one can get, given the human condition.
"Nobody cares what you do in this town," he said, "as long as they know all about it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: EX-VERMONTER -- Shirley Adlerbert runs soup kitchens for children. Here, she cares for her maid's child.; SAN MIGUEL SCENES -- Bette and Dixon Adams, above, moved to San Miguel de Allende 10 years ago from Florida. Rickie and Leon Novenstern, right, who have been coming from New Jersey for the last 15 winters, join Herbert Wollmand, from Long Island, in the Jardin, the town plaza. CARRYING ON, AND UP -- Mary Quagliata, above, a retired teacher from San Francisco, has lived in Mexico six years. Retirees at St. Paul's Church, left. Americans have made the city, top left, popular ever since the end of World War II. (Photographs by MONICA ALMEIDA/The New York Times) Chart: "Easy Living for Two"Robert and Bonnie Kleffel retired to Ajijic, Mexico, from San Diego and watched their monthly expenses plummet. Here is a breakdwon base on one recent month. Table shows list of expenses contrasted by location: San Diego and Ajijic. Chart: "Searching for Shangri-La"Mexico is not the only haven for retirees abroad. Here is a look at some other popular destinations.Tables show TAXES, MONTHLY COST OF LIVING, MONTHLY APT. RENTAL, AVG. COST FOR A HOME, DESIRABLE LIVING AREAS, ADVANTAGES, AND DISADVANTAGES. *In capital; cost of living does not include housing. (Sources: "The World's Top Retirement Havens" Avalon Travel Publishing, 1999 ; Greek Press and Information Office; Embassies of Ecuador and Ireland; Tourist Office of Spain, U.S.A.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); WORLD WAR II (76%); VETERANS (71%); AIR FORCES (71%); MULTILINGUALISM (69%); DIVIDENDS (50%) RETIREMENT 

PERSON: WEINER, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (94%); SPAIN (79%) MEXICO; SAN MIGUEL DE ALLENDE (MEX); AJIJIC (MEXICO)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



539 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 2; Retirement; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2167 words

HEADLINE: The World According to AARP 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
EVERY day, across the country, the letters arrive with the inevitability of taxes and death -- which is just what some recipients think of when they open them. 
 "Dear friend," comes the greeting. "The enclosed AARP card has never been more valuable to you than it is today." Some who get the letter view it with dread or with humor, but since all recipients have just turned 50, they cannot help but see it as a symbol: they have just crossed a Rubicon. 
 The humorist Bill Geist once wrote that with the end of the draft and the arrest of the Unabomber, the AARP letter is the most feared piece of mail a person can get. 
Yet the organization that mails nine million of these letters each month -- and last year sent one to Mark Spitz, Stevie Wonder, Morgan Fairchild and David Cassidy, among others -- is famous for more than just reminding people of something they would rather forget. Over the years, AARP -- formerly known as the American Association of Retired Persons -- has become the older American's 800-pound gorilla, known for its sheer size and political muscle. Its membership, 33.4 million, is bigger than the population of Canada, and represents 45 percent of Americans 50 and older. Those letters may cause some resentment, but they are effective.
AARP's annual budget of $435 million is about three times the size of the National Rifle Association's. For the last three years it has topped Fortune magazine's survey as the most effective lobbying organization in Washington. 
And this behemoth may be about to grow bigger. The huge post-World War II cohort of baby boomers is starting to swell AARP's ranks. Americans are turning 50 at the rate of 1 every 7.6 seconds; in the next 30 years, the number of people aged 65 or older will double, to 20 percent of the population. 
"The demographics are on our side," Horace B. Deets, the group's executive director, once told an interviewer. 
But even as Mr. Deets, 62, prepares to step down later this year, there are signs that all has not been well with the organization he has headed since 1988. Membership grew at 20 percent a year in the 12 years before Mr. Deets took over, powered partly by AARP's lowering the eligibility age to 50 from 55 in 1984. Membership growth slowed to 1 percent a year during his tenure. From 1996 to 1999, the last year for which complete financial data are available, revenue from dues, which makes up 32 percent of AARP's income, was relatively flat. 
And there has been a series of embarrassments. In 1994, AARP, a nonprofit group, agreed to pay the Internal Revenue Service $135 million to resolve a dispute over its business income from 1985 through 1993. The group paid $15 million in lieu of back taxes in 1994 and 1995, and another $52 million two years ago. And it had to spin off a commercial subsidiary that sold insurance and other services to its members. Two years ago, the Postal Service fined AARP $5.6 million, citing it for illegally mailing millions of solicitations for commercial insurance. The Postal Service said that AARP should have been paying a commercial rate for postage rather than the cheaper rate charged to nonprofit agencies.
This is not the worst of it. Notwithstanding the Fortune designation, some Congressional staff members and dispassionate observers say AARP, once in the forefront of legislative battles like the fight over cutting Social Security cost-of-living increases, has lost its lobbying edge, adopting a more cautious approach out of fear that a strident tone might alienate some of its members, once largely Democratic but now roughly divided between Democrats and Republicans. 
"I've almost stopped thinking of them as a lobby," said a House Democratic staff member familiar with the group's work on Capitol Hill. "They have all kinds of valuable member services and do really good research work. But in terms of being a tough lobby, they're not what they used to be."
Yet of all the challenges that AARP faces, perhaps the greatest is keeping a cohesive purpose and sense of direction with a membership that is split by an age gap and a sense of identity. The organization may be poised to achieve explosive growth, but it also has to figure out how to appeal to people who are 50 to 65 and still working, while remaining relevant to older retirees. How, for example, will AARP ultimately come down on the issue of privatizing Social Security, which many younger members might favor, when retirees fear such a move might lead to a cut in their benefits?
John Rother, AARP's chief lobbyist in Washington, responded to these concerns. "Part of the Social Security debate that everyone would expect us to be prominent in would be to protect current beneficiaries," he said. "And if we were just a membership organization for people 65 and above, maybe that's where we would spend most of our energy.
"But because we're putting so much focus now on the younger group, it pushes us to think much longer-term," Mr. Rother continued. "So we're putting just as much emphasis on pensions and savings that people can do in their working years as we are on the traditional Social Security system itself."
Those intellectual, marketing and lobbying strains will only intensify in the future. Sixty percent of AARP's membership is currently 65 and over; 40 percent is between 50 and 65. With the baby boomers, those proportions may change. And if the differences between the two groups sunder AARP's mission and outlook -- there is no guarantee that it will -- then its size could turn from an asset to a liability. 
The challenges of bigness are nothing new for AARP. The group was founded in 1958 by Dr. Ethel Andrus, a retired educator who as head of the National Retired Teachers Association was concerned that many of her members could not obtain health insurance. Dr. Andrus struck up a partnership with Colonial Penn Life Insurance, whose marketing of insurance through the association helped increase the group's appeal.
The association's explosive growth came under Cyril F. Brickfield, a back-slapping hail fellow who took over in 1967 when the group had about one million members. By the time Mr. Brickfield stepped down in 1987, membership was 28 million. 
He was followed by Jack Carlson, a former chief economist at the Office of Management and Budget in the Nixon administration. Mr. Carlson lasted only 15 weeks before being forced out. Association officials said he and the group's directors did not agree on his desire to restructure the group's businesses to make each operation pay for itself. Mr. Carlson accused the group of slovenly management. 
If Mr. Brickfield, the group's most famous leader, was a man about Washington, Mr. Deets, who became executive director in 1988, is about as low-key as they come. At a time when the heads of interest groups are media stars, Mr. Deets prefers to work in the background. To many in Washington his name seems to be Horace Who? 
Though his penchant is for strategic thinking and management reforms, Mr. Deets has spent much of his time putting out brush fires. Not long after he took over, the association was criticized for supporting legislation that set up a catastrophic health insurance plan in Medicare. 
The measure, the biggest expansion of Medicare since its inception in 1965, provided insurance for elderly people beset by huge medical bills for major illnesses. But some seniors with higher incomes objected to the plan's $60-a-year increase in Medicare premiums and its annual surtax that ran as high as $800.
Howls from a group of higher-income older people prompted Congress to repeal the program in 1989. But some turned their scorn on the AARP. Mr. Deets, who still defends the group's support for catastrophic care, estimated that 12,000 to 14,000 members resigned in protest. For a group with nearly 30 million members, the loss was minuscule. But the experience was searing.
"We learned some tough lessons out of that repeal," Mr. Rother said. "One thing we learned was that it wasn't sufficient to just do the policy analysis here in Washington. You really had to lay the groundwork all across the country."
The setback helped spur AARP to open more state offices, an idea that had been resisted by AARP leadership, which feared it would lead to fragmentation. But with so many government functions devolving to the states, establishing a stronger grass-roots network has taken on an importance beyond setting up structures that communicate what the group is doing in Washington. 
"So much of what is done that affects the audience we serve is either funded, regulated or delivered at the state level," Mr. Deets said. "If you're going to be effective in serving your members' needs, you have to be a player at the state level." 
In 1988, the group had 10 regional offices and one state office. By the end of this year, it will have 53 offices, one in every state and major territory. AARP employs about 1,900 people and enlists about 3.4 million volunteers. 
AARP may have learned something else from the travails of catastrophic health insurance -- political caution. "This was considered a major blunder by the Washington operation in that they got out ahead of their members," said a Democratic Congressional staff member. "They haven't gotten over it yet."
Since then, the knock on AARP has been that it has tried to maintain a middle ground so it would not be closely identified with either party. This was further sharpened by the Republicans' capture of Congress in 1994, and the wafer-thin margins that now divide the House and the Senate. With AARP's membership evenly divided politically, the leadership has felt the need to cling to the middle so as not to jeopardize either the $141 million it gets from dues or the $161 million in royalties from the sale of goods and services like insurance and prescription drugs that carry the AARP imprimatur. Or so the argument goes.
In addition to lobbying, AARP researches issues important to older people and organizes volunteers for community projects. For $12 a year, members receive discounts on prescription drugs, travel, car rentals and other services, including advice on financial planning and health.
"They don't want to lose membership, because membership feeds into all their products," said Robert Binstock, a professor of aging, health and society at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. "I think that's what they are trying to do -- do enough advocacy for the aging so it seems like they're doing the right thing, but not enough to seem radical."
Curiously, AARP officials do not disagree with this assessment, though they say the part about being primarily motivated by money is overstated. 
"AARP has developed a certain lobbying position," said William Novelli, an associate executive director of the organization and a possible successor to Mr. Deets. "What it boils down to is, don't get way out in front of your membership. We're not Planned Parenthood. Try to work with both sides, bring them together, keep raising the bar in terms of what you want. When you represent 34 1/2 million people, the majority of whom vote, you don't have to smack people in the head with a stick."
Mr. Novelli promised that in the future, AARP would take more of a leadership role in lobbying efforts, would build its grass roots into a more potent force and would become more forceful on issues like pensions. But do not expect it to become a strident voice identifying strongly with one side or the other on Capitol Hill. 
"If you come down hard on somebody, you're going to rile up a certain percent of your own members," Mr. Novelli said. "Of course, then they'll go to your membership and try to turn them against you."
These days AARP is trying not only to make sure no one turns its members against it but also to enroll more baby boomers.
The organization is in the middle of a five-year effort to figure how to attract younger members. It has started a $100 million campaign to erase its image as an organization for old people. In 1998, it changed its name, dropping the periods in its acronym, along with its dowdy title. 
Earlier this year AARP started a magazine, My Generation, which is offered to younger members instead of Modern Maturity, which will continue to go to older members. "We've known for several years that we had to start reaching out for a younger audience," said Martha Ramsey, the director of publications. The premier issue, with the actor Ed Harris on the cover, featured articles on subjects like technology and gadgets, financial planning and camps offering trapeze lessons. 
Whether all this will attract the baby boomers, and whether these new members can keep the organization together, Mr. Deets and the AARP leaders are determined that if the organization goes the way of the dinosaur, it will not be out of complacency.
Recently Mr. Deets read a book by Peter Drucker that contained these words, " 'Those whom the gods would destroy are first granted 40 years of business success.' "
AARP is 43 years old.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article in the special Retirement section on March 21 about the influence of AARP, formerly the American Association of Retired Persons, misstated its membership and its annual dues. In 2000, according to the organization, it had 34.3 million members, not 33.4 million. The fee is $10, not $12.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MAN AT THE TOP -- Horace Deets at an AARP meeting, top, chatting with the former presidential adviser David Gergen, above, and looking over magazine covers. (Photographs above and below left by Alex Brandon for The New York Times); (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. H1); Below, John Rother, AARP's chief lobbyist. From left, Martha Ramsey, director of publications, and William Novelli, who may succeed Horace Deets as executive director. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times)(pg. H8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); LOBBYING (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); BABY BOOMERS (65%); WORLD WAR II (50%) RETIREMENT; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; LABOR; RETIREMENT; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS 

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (94%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%) AARP 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



540 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Retirement; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: SECOND STARTS; 
When Do You Retire? Here Are 6 Answers

BYLINE:  By LESLIE BERGER 

 BODY:
ANDREW DONG retired three years ago with health, wealth and youth to spare. He was 36, the vice president of a Canadian software company about to go public, when he made up his mind to cash in, buy a motorcycle and travel as much as he could.
 But even for Mr. Dong, a mathematician turned millionaire, the decision was not easy. What quietly guided him was the death of a close colleague, from melanoma, at the age of 40. "He was diagnosed too late," Mr. Dong said. "It made me realize that you can go at any time." 
 Rarely simple, the decision to retire is often a tangle of conflicting emotion infused with urgency. Money, obviously, is a big concern. But so are intangibles like geography -- do you want to move closer to your children and grandchildren? -- and time. 
Many people who choose to retire experience a "giddiness of opportunity" and yearn to do something meaningful, said Marc Freedman, the president of Civic Ventures, a public policy group in San Francisco.
Yet at the same time, he went on, there is the sobering realization that "time means more than at any other period of life because the hourglass has started to run."
Joseph F. Quinn, an economist at Boston College's Center for Retirement Research, agrees. "More and more people," he said, "are thinking about what they're going to do all day long and how long they're going to live" -- one reason so many older workers are taking part-time "bridge" jobs instead of simply retiring from the work force.
Findings like these are borne out by the experiences of Mr. Dong and five others who agreed to talk about their decision to retire. For all of them, the constant was that money was only part of the equation. Or as Clare Hushbeck, an economist with AARP, put it: "The no-brainer is finances. The kinds of things where people really don't put enough thought into, and are surprised by later, are much more personal things."

Eager to Move On
Barbara Rubin, professor
Like Mr. Dong, Barbara Rubin was influenced by an early death -- that of her mother at 56, from ovarian cancer. Dr. Rubin, an ardent feminist who never married, was 63 when she retired last June from New Jersey City University in Jersey City, where she co-founded the women's studies program and Women's Center.
"I had other artistic urges," she said. "I no longer wanted to be an administrator, and I was concerned that the administrative part of me would kill the artistic part of me." And, she added, "I didn't want to postpone any longer the next phase of my life."
Dr. Rubin now relishes the chance to write nonfiction and poetry, study French and possibly live overseas. But retiring has been scarier than she thought because a portion of her savings is tied up in the stock market. A native New Yorker, she also continues to rent in a Gramercy Park building. Social Security should cover her housing costs, provided that rent stabilization holds.
For the first time, she has hired a financial adviser and is trying to live on a budget. She is eating out less, choosing trips more carefully, worrying about isolation. Deciding to retire inevitably meant taking stock, she said, adding, "I had to deal with choices I'd made many, many years ago."

Prepared for a Smooth Landing
Charles Griffith, pilot
Charles Simmons Griffith approached retirement with the crisp efficiency of his 22-year career as a pilot for Southwest Airlines and his service in the Air Force before that. He stopped flying in November 1999, at age 55 -- five years before the federal mandatory retirement age for commercial pilots.
"I had it in my head that an adjustment of this magnitude was easier made at a younger age," he explained. "Fifty was too young. Sixty was too far down the road. Fifty-five to me seemed to be just right. I wanted to still have some sense of youth about me when I did the things that I wanted to do."
Money is not an issue for Mr. Griffith, who benefited from Southwest's profit-sharing program and a lifetime of careful saving and investing. Nor is boredom: a decorated Vietnam veteran, he is turning his war experience into a novel. He is also restoring the 1885 brownstone in downtown Chicago that he and his wife, Sarah, bought after raising their family in Texas. Fulfilling an urge for community involvement, he takes children flying in his Tobago TB10 two weekends a month.
"For me to go from being a captain from a big airliner and managing a crew to just being a U.S. citizen was not a big deal," Mr. Griffith said.

Certain the Time Was Right
Charles Littel, maintenance chief
Charles Littel's knees told him when it was time to stop working.
"I was having trouble getting up and down ladders and helping out with moving furniture and that," said Mr. Littel, 64, who retired in January 2000 as the maintenance supervisor of an office building in Philadelphia. "And the building I'd been in was sold and new owners were coming in and I just thought it was a good time to leave."
He talked it over a lot with his wife, Kathleen, who still works as the manager of a hospital ward. Between his pensions and Social Security and her salary and health insurance, they figured they could meet their monthly expenses and still be able to travel -- including more frequent visits with their children and grandchildren. They also wanted to spend more time with each other after years of conflicting schedules.
Mr. Littel said the hardest part of retiring was his last month on the job, when he could not stop himself from thinking, "Hey, you're not coming back to this place anymore."
"You start to second-guess yourself a little bit," he admitted. "Do I really want to? Is this right for me? Now that I have been off for a year, I can honestly say no, I did not make the wrong decision."
Much of Mr. Littel's life revolves around the Schuylkill River, where he rows three or four mornings a week in good weather. There, he has friends of all ages and occupations to work out with -- though it's the serenity of the sport he loves best.

Coming Full Circle
Betty-Bruce H. Hoover, principal
As a principal of a private high school for 16 years, Betty-Bruce H. Hoover had greeted and graduated four generations of teenagers and counseled their parents about letting go.
Suffice it to say she had no trouble recognizing when it was time to let go herself. It happened in the summer of 1999 when she was preparing for the coming year.
"Lots of things had come full circle, several times," said Mrs. Hoover, 62, who stepped down last June as the upper division director of Berkeley Preparatory School in Tampa, Fla.
There was also the issue of staying in tune with students' interests, which got harder once her own children grew and her administrative duties increased. Even her herb garden at home seemed to be sending a message: "The only one I couldn't get to grow was thyme."
She is traveling more with her husband, a tax lawyer, and awaiting the birth of a second grandchild. There are photo albums to finally organize and the classics she wants to reread without pressure.
On the laptop she received as her retirement gift, Mrs. Hoover is writing a history of the school. It is a contract job that gives her an excuse to visit the campus a couple days a week, chat with friends and check the bulletin board for inspirational sayings.
"Your best work is accomplished by always being where you are when you're there," was a favorite, Mrs. Hoover said. "I particularly used that with seniors who were always looking so far ahead."

Looking Homeward
Harold Goodis, endodontist
For Harold E. Goodis, planning his retirement has been a cakewalk compared with the career change he made 15 years ago when he left his dental practice in Orlando and went to San Francisco, to become a dental professor at the University of California. If financially unsettling -- he and his wife, Joan, became renters -- the move was intellectually gratifying.
Now 65, Dr. Goodis still thrives on his teaching and research but is savoring the prospect of retiring. He will do it in about four years, when fully pensioned. He will continue his research, but on an emeritus basis. He will finally write up the stories he has been telling his grandchildren. "I've always worked and it's going to be strange not to have a regular working schedule," he said. "But there are several other things I want to do that negate having a schedule."
The biggest dilemma has been where to finally buy a home to retire to -- and whether to return to the East Coast. At first, Mrs. Goodis lobbied heavily to be closer to their children. But the couple reluctantly concluded that "we did not want to live next door to our own children," Dr. Goodis said, adding, "They have their own lives."
They began looking for golfing developments as close to San Francisco as they could afford and found the town of Fulsom, about two hours north. Their new home is under construction and should be ready to use on weekends long before they move in full time. Now the only unresolved issue is where to buy cemetery plots, Dr. Goodis said, without a trace of gloom.
"I'm not going out of this life alive, and that's all right," he said. "I will have hoped to have lived a full, fruitful life and can't ask for anything more than that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: DIFFERENT STROKES -- For Charles Griffith, above, 55 seemed "just right"; at 63, Barbara Rubin, above right, was eager to follow her "artistic urges." (Steve Kagan for The New York Times); NO REGRETS -- Charles Littel, 64, now has time for morning rows. (Michael Branscom for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); CANCER (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); SKIN CANCER (72%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (70%); MARRIAGE (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%); OVARIAN CANCER (50%) RETIREMENT 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (55%)

PERSON: RUBIN, BARBARA; GRIFFITH, CHARLES; LITTEL, CHARLES; HOOVER, BETTY-BRUCE H; GOODIS, HAROLD; DONG, ANDREW; BERGER, LISA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



541 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: DANCE REVIEW; 
A Monty Python Tone In a Japanese Troupe

BYLINE:  By ANNA KISSELGOFF 

 BODY:
Experimental dance in Japan today is hot. New ideas about ideas, not just movement, have spewed forth from visiting troupes in recent years.
 Condors, a zany all-male group founded and directed by the choreographer and dancer Ryohei Kondo, spices its rebellion against serious concert dance and high-tech society with clever irreverence. 
 Appearing at Japan Society on Saturday night, Condors came across as a Japanese Monty Python with a Beatles-like spirit in its videos.
Using pop culture to critique pop culture and just plain culture, Condors has a pop-group appeal of its own. Squeals and laughter came from the younger Japanese viewers at Japan Society's theater, where the Condors program was presented with Dance Theater Workshop before an appearance in Los Angeles at Japan America Theater on Friday.
Many of the spoken punch lines were translated by the cast or their puppet surrogates. Mr. Kondo knows how to mix his media. Dance deliberately channeled into an athletic tumbleweed style is only one component in the current performance, titled "Conquest of the Galaxy: Jupiter -- Love You Live." The program consists of sketches, but the bits and pieces are assembled so quickly that the impression of collage and montage runs through the show.
That there is method in the madness is obvious. In the Japanese tradition, Mr. Kondo is the leader or teacher, and the others are disciples. A rangy and brilliant virtuoso, he reserves the bravura for himself, sometimes in the image of a pop star in sunglasses and curly wig. The 11 other men come in all shapes and sizes. Some are trained dancers and some are not, although they may be born comedians.
The sketches are uneven but the spirit of uninhibited physical theater is present. There are some pure movement passages, usually focused on a variety of leaps. More often Muzak and American and Japanese pop recordings set the tone for a parody. There is a hilarious spoof of a Hollywood western with the hero pushing past the shoulders of two men, who serve as a saloon's swinging doors.
A cloth doubles as a screen or a puppet-stage horizon. On film, the cast cavorts everywhere from the Great Wall of China to East 47th Street in Manhattan. The skits take aim at the new economy, with performers personifying banks and skyscrapers; ballet, with dancers in long johns; a dictator spinning a globe; and Japanese travel posters. The loopier Condors is, the better.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kensaku Kobayashi, left, and Junichi Aota, who was representing a bank in a skit by Condors that took aim at the new economy. (Richard Termine for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); DANCERS (89%); MEN (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); BALLET (78%); POP & ROCK (77%); FILM (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); CELEBRITIES (72%) DANCING; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (56%) CONDORS (DANCE TROUPE) 

PERSON: KISSELGOFF, ANNA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



542 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Retirement Savvy 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Contrary to your suggestion, your March 16 front-page article profiling blue-collar workers with 401(k)'s did not show why the stock market decline should produce a decline in support for President Bush's proposal to allow Americans to invest a portion of their Social Security payroll taxes in the stock market. 
 Among those you interviewed were men and women who had suffered losses but who also revealed considerable market sophistication. 
They talked about the need to stay in for the long haul and to shift to low-risk investments closer to retirement age as well as the desirability of beginning to invest early in life.
A woman who was asked about investing her own money after the fall of her 401(k) doubted that she could make any better informed investments than government economic institutions. "I'm not smarter than Greenspan," she said. She's too modest. She's doing better than any government institution I know.

BOB KERREY
New York, March 19, 2001

The writer, the former United States senator from Nebraska, is president of New School University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); US 401K PLANS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); WRITERS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); BONDS (71%) STOCKS AND BONDS; RETIREMENT; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) KERREY, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



543 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Argentina Calls on Ex-Economics Chief to Halt Slide 

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, March 20 

 BODY:
Scrambling to keep Argentina from plunging further into recession and political disarray, President Fernando de la Rua cast aside more than a year of austerity policies and called on Domingo Cavallo, the country's economic hero of the early 1990's, to come to the rescue.
 Mr. Cavallo, a supply-side economist well regarded on Wall Street, was named economy minister in a reshuffled cabinet, the same post he was given almost exactly a decade ago by Carlos Saul Menem. He is replacing Ricardo Lopez Murphy, who resigned on Monday after only two weeks in the post when his proposals drew a storm of opposition. 
 Mr. Cavallo's appointment represents a sweeping departure from Mr. de la Rua's failed efforts to raise taxes and cut spending in hopes of reducing budget deficits and lowering interest rates. Instead, Mr. Cavallo is expected to push tax cuts and deregulation to jump-start an economy -- South America's second largest after Brazil -- that has contracted for two years.
Choosing Mr. Cavallo was a matter of politics as much as economics, as Mr. de la Rua tried to combat a growing sense that his fractious ruling coalition was incapable of governing after 16 months of scandals and policy shifts. Mr. de la Rua said Mr. Cavallo "will be in charge of directing the country's economy."
Speaking to reporters today, Mr. Cavallo said, "All of the attention of my ministry will be directed at rapid reactivation and vigorous economic growth, to increase employment and increase family income, so people will consume more, and we will exit this recession that has gone on for three years." 
In 1991, the demons plaguing Argentina were hyperinflation and a plunging currency. Mr. Cavallo tamed them by pegging the Argentine peso firmly to the dollar through an arrangement called a currency board, which backs all the pesos in circulation with hard-currency reserves. Inflation fell to single digits, investor confidence blossomed and Mr. Cavallo's reputation was made.
In those days, the United States was emerging from its own recession and international investors were intrigued by Mr. Menem's wave of privatizations. Now, Mr. Cavallo comes back to power as the United States and Latin American economies are slowing down, which could make his job more difficult. International investors are also much more skeptical about Argentina after several years of disappointing economic performance.
Mr. Cavallo has long argued that Argentina needs a supply-side injection of capital to restore consumer confidence because the country's economy is primarily driven by demand from its own consumers and businesses, not by exports. If his expected tax cuts fail to reignite growth quickly, though, the country's fiscal plight may worsen. The federal deficit in January reached $985 million, up sharply from the $590 million shortfall in January 2000.
"Cavallo's appointment is good news but doesn't solve Argentina's longer-term problems," David Malpass, chief international economist at Bear, Stearns, wrote in a report today. Mr. Malpass praised Mr. Cavallo's first policy statements, saying they "shifted the budget focus from arbitrary I.M.F. fiscal targets to a concerted attack on government bureaucracy, corruption and wasteful spending." 
Today, Mr. Cavallo tried to tamp down rumors that Argentina would retreat from the currency peg, known here as convertibility, and devalue the peso in an attempt to bolster exports. Critics say the peg has outlived its usefulness and made Argentine exports uncompetitive. But "convertibility is here to stay and will never be abandoned," Mr. Cavallo said. Many Argentines have been converting peso bank deposits into dollars in fear of a devaluation. 
Mr. Cavallo, who in recent years has led a small conservative party and held a seat in Congress, is bound to become the most powerful aide to Mr. de la Rua at a time of growing labor and student protests, including road blockades and sit-ins around Buenos Aires. A small bomb exploded on Monday outside the offices of a research center associated with Mr. Lopez Murphy; no one was injured. 
Mr. Lopez Murphy had proposed a plan to save the government $4.45 billion over two years, mostly by cutting aid to higher education, fuel and tobacco subsidies and tax exemptions, and cracking down on tax evasion. The plan caused protests and a near-rebellion by governors belonging to Mr. de la Rua's Radical Party, and several cabinet ministers resigned.
Mr. de la Rua also named new ministers of the interior, education and infrastructure and housing and filled several other key posts; several of the new appointees are allies of Mr. Cavallo, who is 54 and a Harvard graduate.
Mr. Cavallo asked Congress today for a free hand to cut regulation, simplify labor laws and fight corruption -- the issue that led to his eventual break with the Menem government.
But with congressional elections scheduled for October, opposition leaders responded guardedly. "We cannot say 'we are going to delegate everything,' " said Senator Eduardo Menem, a leader of the opposition Justicialist Party and brother of the former president. "Otherwise, we might as well close Congress." 
Investors also reacted cautiously. The benchmark Merval stock index rallied early in the day and then settled back to close off 0.6 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); DEREGULATION (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); CURRENCIES (86%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SCANDALS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); TRENDS (66%); INTEREST RATES (53%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; TAXATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

PERSON: DE LA RUA, FERNANDO (PRES); CAVALLO, DOMINGO; KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; LOPEZ MURPHY, RICARDO 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



544 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel; 
Midsize and smaller airlines tend to get the best ratings in the latest customer survey by Zagat.

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey; The Business Travel column appears each Wednesday. E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
MOST airline performances declined over the last few years, with long lines, unpredictable delays, crowding and disorganization over all making air travel less appealing -- except for those people who were in first class or business class," Tim Zagat said yesterday. "And even they noted that the level of service was not always what they would have liked."
 Now before some wiseacre hollers "Whoa, stop the presses!" let us note that Mr. Zagat is not just another voice grumbling from the dim recesses of the departure lounge when he talks about airline performance. Rather, he is an impresario of qualitative and quantitative consumer ratings: the co-founder, with his wife, Nina, of Zagat Survey, which publishes those pithy, opinionated guides to restaurants, hotels and other travel and leisure services. 
 Yesterday, the Zagats released their 2001 Airline Survey, which rates the performances of 70 domestic and foreign airlines. The survey -- the first conducted by the company since 1998 -- is based on evaluations by more than 31,000 airline customers, including nearly 1,000 travel agents. On average, the respondents took 15.7 domestic and 3.9 international flights last year, according to Mr. Zagat. Airlines are rated numerically, with grades for comfort, service, food and cost, and also awarded an overall numerical score -- "30 being perfection; zero being terrible," Mr. Zagat said. 
You can find the survey on the Zagat Web site, www.zagat.com. Following are some highlights, starting with the airlines that customers decided performed best.
In general, midsize and smaller carriers were the highest rated. The top-rated domestic airline for economy-class travel was Midwest Express Airlines, a Milwaukee-based carrier that promotes business-class-style seating and service at coach prices. Customers raved about its leather seats, free Champagne, real china and friendly crews -- all "reminders of what's possible" in air travel, as one passenger put it.
Finishing behind Midwest in the top five over all were JetBlue Airways, a "role model" for discount carriers, Mr. Zagat said in summarizing customers' ratings; Alaska Airlines; Midway Airlines; and National Airlines.
For premium-service seats, the top five domestic carriers were Hawaiian Airlines, Alaska Airlines, Continental Airlines, American Airlines and United Airlines. Of the major airlines in this group, Continental got high marks for its new fleet, its extensive schedule of nonstop cross-country flights and its highly regarded frequent-flier program. Customers liked American's new roomier coach seats but didn't much care for the self-serve bags the airline passes out for breakfast and lunch, which one customer called "a joke."
Interestingly, United made the top five in premium class despite a sorry record of delays and cancellations last year. Some customers suggested that was because the airline had been making real efforts to win back customer good will with improved food and frequent-flier program bonuses. 
Since the previous survey in 1998, "Continental clearly made the greatest improvements" domestically, Mr. Zagat said. Internationally, Continental performed even better, according to the survey. "It jumped 3 points over all in our ratings, which is the most of any of the 70 airlines that were surveyed," Mr. Zagat said. "It's a major turnaround for an airline of that scale."
For international flights, Singapore Airlines was top-ranked in both premium and economy classes. Readers called it "the standard for quality" and the best of the Star Alliance partners. Virgin Atlantic also scored well among foreign carriers, especially in premium class, where it was rated second behind Singapore by customers who praised Virgin's "hip" environment, personal amenity kits, extensive in-seat entertainment choices, and on-board "massages and manicures at 2 a.m."
Following among the top 10 premium rankings were Cathay Pacific, Thai Airways, Air New Zealand, Swissair, Qantas, Japan Airlines, British Airways and South African Airways.
In economy, after Singapore, eight of the same airlines turned up, in slightly different order and with the exception of Scandinavian Airlines System, which displaced British Air in the list.
Zagat surveys are best known for customer comments, which range from effusive and admiring to qualified and diffident to downright derisive. Dissatisfied Zagat raters are notoriously brutal, as suggested by unpublished comments from restaurant reviewers listed on the Web site: "Dishes taste like road kill," one diner wrote of a restaurant. "Food tastes like socks," said another, of a separate establishment. "Be sure to sit in the no-shooting section," someone else warned. And readers of the airline survey looking for the zingers won't be disappointed.
"Should be on Antiques Roadshow," one customer said of the Northwest Airlines fleet.
"Then there are the ones where you kind of wonder why they bother," Mr. Zagat said of some foreign airlines' ratings. "Like Egypt Air, where one of the quotes was 'the words on-time don't exist.' Of Olympic Airlines, another flier asked, 'How about cleaning the jets once in a while?' " he said.
And how about that Aeroflot? You want to talk bum trip? "Aeroflot got an overall score of only 4.9, which is about 4 to 5 points below anyone else," Mr. Zagat said. "Not for the faint of heart," one reviewer said of the Russian carrier.
Other international airlines got qualified praise, like Aeromexico, lauded for its "free beer" and "nice selection of tequila" -- all the better to ward off the "biting bugs" that one dissatisfied customer said came along for the ride. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING SURVEYS (91%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (89%); RANKINGS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (74%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); TRAVEL AGENTS (67%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (74%); MIDWEST EXPRESS AIRLINES INC (53%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ZAGAT SURVEY; MIDWEST EXPRESS AIRLINES; HAWAIIAN AIRLINES INC; ALASKA AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES; UNITED AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES 

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); UAL (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (74%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (76%) ALASKA, USA (91%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (68%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



545 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Management -- Border Crossing: Where Language Isn't a Barrier; 
2 Schools, 2 Nations, One Future Envisioning Free Trade

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico 

 BODY:
At the Duxx Graduate School of Business Leadership here, everybody speaks English. At the Latin American program of the University of Miami School of Business Administration more than a thousand miles to the east, everyone speaks Spanish.
 It might seem that the mostly Latin American natives at the two schools have things backward, but they would argue that they are looking forward -- into the free-trade future. As Latin America struggles to overcome its protectionist past and join the global economy, its business leaders realize the next generation of executives needs a crash course in American management to have a chance of closing the gap with the United States. And that is what the students here say they are getting. 
 They come from varied backgrounds and have their own business goals. But whatever language they use in the classroom, they know they have to master American business concepts if they are going to help their countries cope with tumbling trade barriers. With President Bush promising to lobby at the Summit of the Americas in Quebec in April for his goal of a common market for the entire hemisphere by 2005, the challenge has become all the more urgent. 
At Duxx, in a suburb of this most business-oriented of Mexican cities, 20 young men and women, nearly all of them Mexican, are learning the latest American techniques and theories of finance, marketing and leadership skills. The master's program is taught in English, which is rapidly solidifying its position as the hemisphere's preferred language of business.
At the same time, around 50 business people from all over Latin America are attending Miami's program, which focuses on American corporate finance and international marketing. Its classes are taught in Spanish.
But the mind-set at both places is international. "I can't imagine working in a company that is not globally focused," said Carlos Garcia Zendejas, 28, who is studying for a master's in business leadership at Duxx. A native of northern Mexico, he said the program's multinational nature and international faculty worked well with his experience at John Deere and other manufacturers.
"Working and studying this way," Mr. Garcia Zendejas said, "has opened up a lot of horizons for me."
For many of these students, the horizon already stretches to a world where crossing borders is hardly more meaningful than crossing highway traffic lines. Eugenio J. Cisneros, 38, was born in Miami of Cuban parents. A few years later, the family moved to Venezuela. There, Mr. Cisneros entered his father's gasoline retailing business, operating one of the busiest truck stops in the country. Mr. Cisneros has taken the family business international by buying six stations in Puerto Rico.
"There are no boundaries anymore," Mr. Cisneros said during a break from his classes at the University of Miami. Like most of the M.B.A. students, he keeps in touch with his business, which usually means that as soon as a break begins, he is on his cell phone calling Puerto Rico or Venezuela. "With globalization," he said, "things get tougher and tougher every day."
Preparing for business in that world is changing, too. "Back in the 1970's and 1980's, you really didn't have to open the catalog at most business schools because the content and format of the courses were the same everywhere," said Larry E. Penley, dean of the Arizona State University College of Business and chairman of the International Association for Management Education, which accredits business schools. Telecommunications and globalization have overhauled the way business is done, he said, which means the schools had to change what they taught and how they taught it.
"What we've seen is a transformation of the whole business curriculum," he said, "and the internationalization of business schools."
Competition among business schools has grown vicious in recent years, especially in the crowded ranks below the top tier of schools. Harold W. Berkman, vice dean of the University of Miami School of Business Administration, said he had been looking for ways to distinguish Miami's business program from that of hundreds of similar schools.
"I was up one morning at 4:30 asking myself what we can do that no one else can do," he said. He knew that Miami had become a financial capital for Latin America, the place where bankers, executives and entrepreneurs from the region congregated to dip their toes into America's capitalist waters.
Professor Berkman imagined a course taught entirely in Spanish that would attract active business leaders who had a basic understanding of English but felt more comfortable in their own language and who were eager to pick up American business secrets.
There is an awareness, Professor Berkman said, of the Free Trade Area of the Americas coming. He was referring to the free-trade bloc championed by President Bush. "But there's also an awareness that Latin America is behind the curve."
The first class, in 1997, was canceled when not enough students enrolled. The university tried again the following year, changing the approach of the advertising slightly to reflect cultural differences among the nations. It took out ads in magazines and newspapers. A recruiter was sent to the region. "There, people don't believe you until they see you," Professor Berkman said.
On the second try, 22 students signed up for a master's program in professional management. Students were required to come to Miami for five intensive two-week periods from fall to the early summer, supplemented by reading and study. After the first two classes graduated, in 1998 and 1999, the university added a Master of Business Administration.
Although classes are conducted in Spanish, all the readings and case studies are in English. Most students speak it, too, but sometimes with gaps, just as their English-speaking professors have gaps in their conversational Spanish.
"No tenemos loyalty," said Anthony Miyazaki, an assistant professor of marketing, as he mixed idioms in addressing the M.B.A. class. His students later said Mr. Miyazaki sometimes needed to switch to English to get across a concept, but they usually knew what he meant. Mr. Miyazaki, who learned Spanish in college, said the students often adopted American lingo in their eagerness to learn.
"We're supposed to use the term porcion de mercado," he said, "but everybody here just prefers to say 'market share.' "
The students at Duxx are younger and less experienced than those in Miami, but just as aware of the multinational demands of contemporary business. "The international aspect of business is crucial, especially here in Monterrey where people are expected to know about international business," said Antonio Garza Torres, 36, of Garza Garcia, the suburb of Monterrey where Duxx is situated.
Duxx was begun in 1993 by Alfonso Romo Garza, scion of one of Monterrey's thoroughbred corporate and political families. He hired Carlo Brumat as dean, a polyglot Italian academician with extensive experience teaching business management in English at Insead, France's leading international business school.
At Duxx, students enroll full time and study one or two courses at a time. Teachers fly in from the United States, Britain and elsewhere for two-week periods. The instruction and all the reading are in English.
Duxx students must pass standardized admissions tests and demonstrate their command of basic English. Inevitably, though, some things get by them.
"What's a life raft?" asked a number of students in the interpersonal relations class taught by William O. Roberts and Karl E. Scheibe. One student responded in Spanish that it was a life preserver, another that it was a wet suit. A third called it a small boat. The word brigand in another class left nearly all the students clueless about its meaning.
But for the most part, English is not a major impediment, and here, at least, the old Mexican distrust of English as an artifact of cultural imperialism is dead. "English is the lingua franca of business," Dr. Brumat said. "Not recognizing that is like shooting yourself in the foot."
Despite President Bush's embrace of free trade, opposition is growing among environmentalists, anti-trade activists and citizens groups worried that too many people are being left behind by globalization. Also, diplomatic and commercial quarrels among the 34 nations that would make up the free-trade area make the 2005 goal a moving target.
That does not stand in the way of those enrolled, however. If the pact happens, said Pamela Camus, 45, country director in Chile for American Airlines and a student in the Miami program, "it may be in many more years to come." Mrs. Camus, who is Chilean, noted that it has taken the United States more than seven years to start negotiations for a free-trade agreement with her country.
Mrs. Camus is certain a hemispheric agreement will help Chile and other Latin American countries, but she is not willing to just sit and wait for it to happen. "Whatever the United States does has an impact on our economy," she said. "I'm preparing myself to handle my company and my dreams in every area and every situation that comes."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the University of Miami master's program, above, classes are taught in Spanish but the readings and the case studies are in English. At right, at the Duxx Graduate School in Mexico, Prof. William O. Roberts, left, and Prof. Karl E. Scheibe, standing, conduct classes in English. (Photographs by Jose Alfonso Guevara for The New York Times, below; Cindy Karp for The New York Times, above) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); FAMILY (75%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (50%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; SPANISH LANGUAGE; ENGLISH LANGUAGE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BUSINESS SCHOOLS 

ORGANIZATION: DUXX GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS LEADERSHIP; UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (94%) LATIN AMERICA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (52%) LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



546 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: NATO Leader Asks for More Kosovo Troops 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
The secretary general of NATO, Lord Robertson, has asked NATO members to send about 1,400 more troops to Kosovo so that the alliance can better cope with the crisis in neighboring Macedonia by stepping up border patrols.
 In his request for more soldiers, Lord Robertson stressed that there were no plans to extend the Kosovo peacekeeping operation into Macedonia itself, diplomats said. 
 But the appeal for reinforcements showed that NATO was stretched thin as it tried to control Kosovo and prevent Kosovo Albanians from moving across the border into Macedonia to join the insurgency.
As President Bush emerged tonight from a tour of the Central Intelligence Agency's headquarters in suburban Virginia where he gave a short speech, he was asked about the possibility of direct United States military assistance to Macedonia. "We'll work with NATO to develop a strategy that will help Macedonia protect herself," Mr. Bush said. 
The Pentagon was not expected to agree to sending more troops to supplement the roughly 5,000 American soldiers in Kosovo, officials said.
A much more likely possibility was for the United States to provide some unmanned reconnaissance aircraft for use over Macedonia, where a small group of ethnic Albanians are fighting the Macedonian Army near the city of Tetovo. 
At a Pentagon briefing today, a spokesman, Rear Adm. Craig R. Quigley, said that the United States had not yet received a formal request for more troops. President Bush, who campaigned last year on drawing down American troops in Kosovo, has tried to keep his administration at a distance from the intensifying fighting in Macedonia.
From the European perspective, Washington appeared to be looking at the Macedonia crisis as "an irritating little problem they hope will go away," one NATO diplomat said. In Europe, there was increasing concern that the Macedonia fighting could descend into the fifth Balkan war since the collapse of Yugoslavia in the early 1990's. 
Officials in several American allies in Europe are said to have increasing concern that NATO would begin to look impotent if Macedonia were allowed to descend into fierce ethnic conflict while more than 35,000 NATO-led soldiers remained next door in Kosovo. 
The Pentagon has made abundantly clear, NATO diplomats said, that it does not want American troops in Kosovo to be involved in missions that go beyond its borders.
At NATO headquarters in Brussels, where Lord Robertson made the request Monday night and where it was further discussed today among NATO ambassadors, there was a understanding that the Europeans would have to meet the new request, diplomats said. So far, only Spain has come forward, pledging about 150 new troops, a NATO official said. 
New troops would allow the commander of the NATO-led forces in Kosovo to fill out a reserve force depleted in recent weeks as troops from it have been posted to active duty, a senior NATO official said.
The NATO forces in Kosovo have come under strain as they try to quell two hot spots -- the ethnically divided city of Mitrovica and the border area near the opening to the Presevo Valley, where Kosovo Albanian guerrillas have been fighting Serbs.
In addition, NATO-led forces have suddenly had to concentrate on the border of Kosovo and Macedonia. Patrols were reinforced starting in late February, but there is now a need for further reinforcements, NATO officials said. 
At the Pentagon briefing, Admiral Quigley said about 150 American troops were moved on to the border in February to halt the flow of fighters and arms into Macedonia. A total of about 300 American soldiers were now patrolling that border, he said.
In Washington today, the discussion of Macedonia focused on supplying money to the Macedonian government and on giving it the mettle to hold back the guerrillas.
Robert Frowick, an experienced American diplomat who knows Macedonia well, will go to the capital, Skopje, as the head of the mission of the Organization of Security and Cooperation in Europe there.
At the State Department, the spokesman, Richard Boucher, said the administration was examining ways it might increase its funding to the Macedonian government, which the ethnic Albanian population criticizes for not sufficient attention to it. About 30 percent of the people of Macedonia are ethnic Albanian; Slavs are in the majority. 
The United States was providing $33 million for economic and civic society programs this year, including an Albanian-language university, Mr. Boucher said. Also, $13.5 million was going to Macedonia in military assistance, a small amount of it for training, he said. 
One immediate concern is the Macedonian military's use of tanks around Tetovo, which is predominantly Albanian. American and NATO officials fear that is heavy-handed and risks alienating the population. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); ARMIES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MACEDONIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; ROBERTSON (LORD) (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SERBIA (96%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOSOVO (94%); EUROPE (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ALBANIA (92%); SPAIN (79%); BELGIUM (79%) MACEDONIA (FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC); KOSOVO (SERBIA); SERBIA

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



547 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Text of Statement by the Federal Reserve 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's monetary policy panel, decided to lower interest rates 50 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point:
 The Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting today decided to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points, to 5 percent. 
In a related action, the board of governors approved a 50- basis-point reduction in the discount rate, to 4 1/2 percent. 
 Persistent pressures on profit margins are restraining investment spending and, through declines in equity wealth, consumption. The associated backup in inventories has induced a rapid response in manufacturing output and, with spending having firmed a bit since last year, inventory adjustment appears to be well under way. 
Although current developments do not appear to have materially diminished the prospects for long-term growth in productivity, excess productive capacity has emerged recently. The possibility that this excess could continue for some time and the potential for weakness in global economic conditions suggest substantial risks that demand and production could remain soft. In these circumstances, when the economic situation could be evolving rapidly, the Federal Reserve will need to monitor developments closely. 
The committee continues to believe that against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. 
In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved requests submitted by the boards of directors of all 12 reserve banks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INVENTORIES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); APPROVALS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



548 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 CRUDE OIL FALLS. Crude oil declined after the Federal Reserve's interest rate cut was seen as too small to increase demand. In New York, crude oil for May delivery fell 34 cents, or 1.3 percent, to $26.12 a barrel.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Crude Oil prices (near-month contract), since October 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); FUTURES (89%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



549 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Fall Hard as Fed Rate Cut Disappoints Investors

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
After weeks of anticipation, investors were disappointed yesterday after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates less than they had wanted.
 Stocks fell sharply, with technology issues suffering big losses. The afternoon selloff partly reflected the misplaced bets of investors who had hoped the Fed would reduce short-term interest rates by three-quarters of a percentage point. Instead, the central bank cut its target for the federal funds rate by a widely anticipated half a point, to 5 percent. 
 The Nasdaq composite index fell 93.74 points, or 4.8 percent, to 1,857.44. The Nasdaq is down 24.8 percent so far this year. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 238.35 points, or 2.4 percent, to 9,720.76. It fell below 10,000 last week as investors' fears spread beyond the technology sector, and it has now declined 9.9 percent this year.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 28.19 points, or 2.4 percent, to 1,142.62. It has declined 13.5 percent this year.
The Fed made its announcement around 2:15 p.m. Eastern time. Until then, the stock market was sluggish, showing modest gains. Immediately afterward, the Nasdaq dropped about seven-tenths of a percent, then jumped back up about 2 percent.
"The indecision is rampant," said Jeffrey D. Saut, chief investment strategist for Raymond James & Associates. "It's up, it's down, it's down, it's up."
After that, though, stocks began a rapid and steady descent. The losses carved deeply into technology stocks, which some investors had hoped would surge, at least temporarily, after the move by the Fed.
"Investors just don't know how they want to be positioned," said Brett Gallagher, a vice president of Julius Baer Investment Management, who manages $400 million in equity holdings for foundations and wealthy individuals. After some hasty adjustments, they seemed struck by a realization that "the next scheduled releases we're going to see are going to be first-quarter earnings and we don't expect those to be brilliant."
Intel fell $2.44, to $24.63; Cisco fell $1.75, to $19.06; and JDS Uniphase fell $3.13, to $21.50. 
Oracle, which said it would cut up to 2 percent of its work force, fell $1.06, to $14.38. Solectron, which said late Monday that it would cut jobs and might miss sales targets, fell $2.40, to $19.09.
Financial stocks also fell sharply, contributing to the drops in the S.& P. 500 and in the Dow. Citigroup dropped $2, to $44.30; J. P. Morgan Chase fell $2.56, to $42.59; and American Express lost $1.49, to $37.27.
The losses in the financial sector, usually a beneficiary of interest rate cuts, partly reflected concerns about debt loads, a global economic slowdown and the banking crisis in Japan. Investors basing their picks on the hope that the rate cut will cause stock prices to rise quickly made their purchases in the energy sector and in the stocks of intrinsically cyclical companies, said Jon Brorson, director of equities for Northern Trust, the money management unit of the Northern Trust Company.
Alcoa rose 35 cents, to $36.28, and International Paper gained $1.10, to $37.36.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury bond prices rose yesterday after the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates to 5 percent and signaled another rate cut could come as early as next month -- before the central bank is scheduled to meet on May 15.
"The Fed looks as though it's ready to do another intermeeting move," said Michael Materasso, who oversees $7.5 billion at Fiduciary Trust Company International. "It's going to take longer for the economy to turn around, and the Fed is going to have to keep cutting rates, which is positive for bonds." 
The 10-year Treasury note rose 16/32, to a price of 101 31/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.75 percent from 4.81 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 13/32, to 101 22/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.26 percent from 5.29 percent on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph shows figures for one month ago and yesterday.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SALES PLAN (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (54%); ARTIO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (53%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); JDU (TSX) (52%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



550 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD 

BYLINE:  By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS, LYNETTE HOLLOWAY, KAREN W. ARENSON, MICHAEL POLLAK, EDWARD WYATT and ALLISON FASS 

 BODY:
Talmud and Transit
 Jewish high school students have been stranded without free public transportation one to four times a week after they have spent long hours in school studying the Talmud, ASSEMBLYMAN DOV HIKIND is complaining. Mr. Hikind has been lobbying Marc V. Shaw, executive director of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and Lawrence G. Reuter, president of New York City Transit, to extend free student MetroCard hours beyond 8:30 p.m., to accommodate yeshiva students who stay as late as 10 p.m. So far, the transit officials have declined, despite a letter of support from New York's Catholic schools. 

Bank's Bilingual Aid
Fleet Bank has provided $760,000 in grant money to the Board of Education to help pay for the recruitment, selection and training of 125 educators who will work with non-English-speaking children. The grant comes just weeks after the board voted to overhaul its bilingual-education programs.

Moving to Barnard
CAMERAN MASON has become vice president for development and alumnae affairs at Barnard College. Although not a Barnard graduate, she attended a women's college -- Wellesley -- where she studied economics and history and was in Phi Beta Kappa. Before moving to Barnard last month, Ms. Mason worked at Fordham University for 10 years.

Takes Pawn and Draws the Foul
The Ravens of St. Raymond High School for Boys are enjoying a rare double victory this month. On March 10, the Bronx school's chess team beat eight other schools to win the city's Catholic High School Chess League title. And last Wednesday, the basketball Ravens won the city's Catholic High School Class A championships over 11 other teams.
"We've been a basketball power for quite some time, but there's a lot going on at the school," said JOHN C. CUMMINGS, development director. St. Raymond, in the Soundview section, has 800 students. GARY DECESARE coaches the basketball team, and BROTHER JOHN McMANUS coaches the chess team.
By coincidence, Archbishop Molloy High School in Queens lost to St. Raymond in the finals of both events.

Fields, Not Dreams
Take the Field, a public-private partnership created last year to rebuild some of the dilapidated playing fields at New York City public schools, broke ground this week on its third project, at William C. Bryant High School in Queens.
The organization, founded by RICHARD A. KAHAN, the former chief executive of the New York State Urban Development Corporation, PRESTON ROBERT TISCH, the co-chairman of the Loews Corporation, and TONY KISER, president of the William and Mary Greve Foundation, has rebuilt the athletic facilities at George Washington High School in Manhattan, and is nearing completion on a project at Seward Park High School, also in Manhattan. The effort's next stage will include four more projects, at South Bronx, Port Richmond, Far Rockaway and Brooklyn Technical High Schools.

Mount Sinai All the Way
HECTOR VAZQUEZ was born at Mount Sinai Hospital 25 years ago, and in May he will be graduating from the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. What he credits for this circular journey of sorts is a program at the Manhattan Center for Mathematics and Science High School in East Harlem that has helped prepare 300 students for careers in medicine, science and mathematics. Mr. Vazquez is the first participant in the Mount Sinai Scholars program to graduate from medical school. "I feel lucky to have been in the program and if it wasn't for that, I wouldn't be in medical school today," said Mr. Vazquez, who wants to be a pediatrician. "No one in my family is a doctor or a nurse." The program provides after-school science enrichment, entrance exam preparation and summer internships in Mount Sinai labs. ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS, LYNETTE HOLLOWAY, KAREN W. ARENSON, MICHAEL POLLAK, EDWARD WYATT and ALLISON FASS

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); BASKETBALL (86%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CITIES (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (74%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (73%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (73%); RELIGION (73%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); SPORTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); TEACHER EDUCATION (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; JEWS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (80%)

ORGANIZATION: PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (55%) FLEET BANK; BARNARD COLLEGE; TAKE THE FIELD 

TICKER: L (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (80%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (80%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (80%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (80%)

PERSON: HARTOCOLLIS, ANEMONA; HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE; ARENSON, KAREN W; POLLAK, MICHAEL; WYATT, EDWARD; FASS, ALLISON; MASON, CAMERON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



551 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES; 
Dollar Follows Downward Spiral of Stocks

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar followed battered stocks down, hitting its lowest level in nearly a week against the euro yesterday in the wake of the Federal Reserve's half percentage point cut in interest rates.
 Analysts said many market participants had pinned their hopes on a more aggressive easing and sold off in disappointment -- even though the Fed has cut short-term lending rates by 1.50 percentage points this year. 
 The dollar initially held steady as dealers plumbed the meaning of the Fed's decision. But it ultimately fell.
"It's clear that the stock market had too much of a rate cut priced in, so the knee-jerk is clearly a negative," said Eric Nickerson, chief currency strategist at Bank of America in New York. 
"But the Fed seems to think the adjustment process is under way, so maybe this is a reality check," he said, adding that the dollar's fortunes in the near term would largely hinge on the performance of the American equity markets.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "CURRENCIES" tracks the Euro to the dollar, since October 1999. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). THE DOLLAR FALLS. The dollar dropped after the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates by half a percentage point and signaled further cuts may be ahead. In New York, the euro settled at 90.47 cents, up from 89.85 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



552 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Even Poor Say Life Improved In Last Decade, Survey Finds 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
Even New Yorkers who did not benefit financially from the city's surging economy in the late 1990's became more satisfied with their neighborhoods, according to a survey to be released today by the Columbia University School of Social Work.
 But there was a surprising number of such people; the random telephone survey of 1,500 people over several months in 1999 found that a stubborn 39 percent of families in the city lived in what the researchers defined as poverty -- 150 percent of the federal poverty level, which works out to $25,000 a year for a family of four. The proportion scarcely changed between 1999 and 1997, the first time Columbia did such a survey. The margin of sampling error was plus or minus 2.5 percentage points. 
 "In their assessments of neighborhoods, there's a shared sense that things are going well," said Marcia K. Meyers, associate director of the university's Social Indicators Survey Center. But, she said, "we see signs of growing inequality."
The survey may add more fuel to the debate among politicians and economists over whether the boom of the 1990's has helped people all over the city, or if the gains have been limited to those who were already wealthy, which was the pattern set in the 1980's. The Census Bureau is not scheduled to release data that may help resolve that question until the end of this year.
The survey found plenty of evidence that city residents profited during the economic boom times of 1997 through 1999. More families had at least one member working full time (48 percent versus 41 percent in 1997), more were making at least $66,640, which is four times the poverty level (34 percent versus 28 percent), and many more had money in the bank or could borrow it easily from friends and family.
But some things have not changed, including the proportion of families who say they are living in housing with major structural, heating or plumbing problems (23 percent), those who have no real assets (28 percent) and those with low incomes.
What is less clear is whether poor people's economic situations have stagnated, or if, as New Yorkers find their economic lives improved, they have been replaced at the bottom by poor immigrants.
An increased number of people in the city were born overseas; 35 percent of the survey respondents were immigrants, versus 30 percent in 1997. But the survey was conducted in English and Spanish only, Ms. Meyers said, so it did not reach many other immigrant groups.
Even if they did not prosper economically, poor residents increasingly rated their neighborhoods as good places to live; the percentage rose to 60 percent, from 54 percent. The attitudes of more affluent people did not change nearly as much, although they are far more satisfied with their neighborhoods.
The drop in crime may go a long way toward explaining this finding. The percentage of poor families that had been victimized by crime fell by about 5 percentage points between 1997 and 1999, to 6 percent -- almost equal to the 5 percent reported by wealthier people (an improvement of 2 points). The percentage of poor families who said their neighborhoods were safe rose to 70 percent, from 65 percent; for wealthier families, the proportion was 89 percent, up from 86 percent.
Despite the drop in crime, poor residents said they were sharply less satisfied with police protection in 1999 than they were in 1997; the proportion of people who called it good or very good plunged by 10 percentage points, to 53 percent. Among wealthier respondents, the level of satisfaction was unchanged at 72 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); FAMILY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); POVERTY RATES (76%); STATISTICS (76%); CENSUS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (65%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%) COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF SOCIAL WORK 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



553 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Assembly Plan Draws Lines For an Albany Budget Fight 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 20 

 BODY:
State lawmakers outlined the battle lines of their budget wars today, with Assembly Democrats proposing to spend generously on schools and health care and Senate Republicans seeking to spend just as generously on tax cuts. Both houses appear more optimistic than the governor about how much revenue the state will bring in over the next year.
 Released this morning, the Assembly's spending plan would cost $2.29 billion more than Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed budget of $83.68 billion. Senate Republicans, who released their plan on Monday, are slightly closer to the governor, with a budget package that would cost about $84.1 billion. 
 At a news conference, Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, maintained that his budget was based on realistic revenue projections. The governor's budget, released in January, projected revenues of nearly $43 billion. The Senate expects the state to bring in about $1.2 billion more, while the Assembly expects $2.1 billion over the governor's projections.
Mr. Silver pointedly reminded reporters that his revenue projections have proved to be more accurate in past years than the governor's, which have been much lower, and more conservative, than actual revenues.
Budget negotiations are usually much harder when the economy is in dire straits and spending cuts are proposed. This year, Republicans and Democrats propose spending more money, but the contest is over prudence; there is little agreement on where the economy is headed. Perhaps even more important, in a nonelection year, there is no rush for legislators to leave Albany, so negotiations could be long and arduous.
"Even in what are pretty good times, both this year and last year, they find things to fight about," said Charles Brecher, research director of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan city and state government watchdog group. "They're going to manage to fight and stretch this out, despite what many outsiders would say -- that this is a budget year that's pretty conducive to easier compromise. You're fighting about how much more to give people, not how much to cut."
The Senate and Assembly differ sharply over education. The Assembly budget includes an increase of $1.7 billion a year for school aid, while the Senate's includes an increase of $925 million. The governor has said he would pour an additional $382 million into school aid this year.
What the Assembly would seek to spend on increased school aid, the Senate seeks in the form of tax cuts. Earlier this week, Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, proposed $1.8 billion in tax cuts over five years, much of it for companies that do business in areas designated as economic development zones. The Assembly's proposed tax cuts are substantially less: $519 million. The governor's proposed tax cuts are much closer to the Assembly Democrats', about $530 million.
To guard against a souring of the economy, the Senate proposes to tuck away $4 billion in reserves. The Assembly would set aside $2.17 billion. The governor's proposal is far more modest, at about $1.4 billion.
The Assembly budget also provides $470 million toward investment in high technology projects and $327 million in Medicaid funds for nursing homes and home health aides. It increases spending for higher education and seeks to spend $184 million out of the welfare surplus fund to train child care workers.
The Citizens Budget Commission applauded the governor's spending proposal last week as "the most responsible and prudent" budget in 16 years, singling out his proposed reserves and his plan to phase in tax cuts that have already been enacted. It did, however, find his school financing proposal to be inadequate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TAXATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



554 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 641 words

HEADLINE: The Fed and the Stock Market 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve cut its key short-term interest rate by half a percentage point yesterday for the third time this year, hopeful that lower borrowing costs will help avert a recession by encouraging businesses to invest more and consumers to spend more. Wall Street was disappointed that the Fed did not cut the rate more aggressively, and traders unloaded stocks late in the day, driving the market averages down. The Fed's refusal to cut rates further was widely interpreted as a reluctance to use its monetary powers to prop up faltering stock prices. But the central bank also sent a signal that it was willing to step in with further rate cuts soon, if needed, and that it was cognizant of the emerging interdependence between moves in stock prices and the "real" economy. 
 The Fed lowered the federal funds rate, which financial institutions charge each other for overnight deposits, from 5.5. to 5 percent. Recent reports showing persistent strength in the labor market, real estate and some retail sectors of the economy may have dissuaded the Fed from cutting the rate three-quarters of a point simply to please Wall Street. But in its statement explaining the move, the Fed made clear that it may not wait until its next Open Market Committee meeting in May to cut rates again. Its statement that "when the economic situation could be evolving rapidly, the Federal Reserve will need to monitor developments closely" provides reassurance that the Fed will remain vigilant. Indeed, some analysts believe that the federal funds rate could be cut as low as 4 percent by the summer. 
 The Fed's action may have disappointed Wall Street, but it illustrated once again how much faster the Fed can bring its monetary policy to bear than Congress and the Bush administration can fashion a tax-cut stimulus. It will take some months for the impact of the latest rate cut to be measured. But by the time Congress gets around to passing a tax cut and that cut is put into effect, the Fed will have had several more shots at stimulating the economy through rate cuts. Yesterday President Bush called once again for Congressional passage of a tax-cut stimulus, but unless his proposal is drastically reshaped to take effect quickly and put money into the hands of low- and middle-income consumers, it will provide very little stimulus at all.
Although the Fed usually resists the impression that it acts in response to the stock market, it acknowledged in its statement yesterday that declines in "equity wealth" had restrained consumption. With more than half of all Americans now invested in stocks, in other words, it is no longer possible to argue that the Nasdaq's dramatic 60 percent plunge over the past year does not have a spillover effect on the real economy. Conversely, when markets were soaring, consumers spent more than they earned, buoyed by the rising value of their assets. Just how the Fed will incorporate such factors into its policy making remains uncertain.
The Fed suggested yesterday that it is still not clear whether the 10-year-old expansion, the longest ever, is about to come to an end. It cited global economic weakness and the slowdown in manufacturing caused by excess inventories held by businesses as particularly worrisome. The country may yet avoid a recession, and is unlikely to face prolonged and paralyzing deflation on the Japanese model, but we are clearly going through what could best be described as a bitter financial hangover. Consumers stopped saving during the boom of recent years and are deeply indebted, and the availability of easy money on Wall Street led corporations -- especially technology firms -- to invest in excess capacity, driven by a "build it and they will come" mentality. The Fed has been moving aggressively to stimulate spending, but more aggressive moves may yet be required. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); TAX LAW (86%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



555 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Facing a Deficit, Suffolk's Chief Urges an Increase in the Sales Tax 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: HAUPPAUGE, N.Y., March 20 

 BODY:
Facing a year-end budget deficit of $35 million caused by lower-than-expected sales tax revenues for the last quarter of 2000, the Suffolk County executive today called for the county to raise its sales tax by a quarter of a percentage point. 
 The increase, which would require approval from the county and state Legislatures, would reverse a 1995 sales tax cut of the same size and bring the combined state and county sales tax back to 8.5 percent in Suffolk, the same as in Nassau County and the highest in the state. 
 In an annual address to the Suffolk Legislature, County Executive Robert J. Gaffney said that unless the county acted soon to control costs and find new revenue, the deficit could hit $140 million by the end of 2002. "Adjusting our sales tax rate is the only realistic option available to raise revenues to help bridge the budget gap over the short term," he said. Mr. Gaffney also announced a hiring freeze and asked for changes in the county charter that would allow it to set aside up to two-thirds of budget surpluses in good years to protect against property tax increases during economic slowdowns. 
Current county law requires that budget surpluses be used to reduce property taxes. Mr. Gaffney said that more than $300 million in surpluses resulting from sales tax revenues had reduced general fund property taxes by 70 percent over the last eight years, to $49 million from $161 million. Those taxes are about 1 percent of the property taxes on an average resident's bill. Most of the property taxes residents pay go toward schools, sewer districts, towns and villages.
Mr. Gaffney said the county's heavy reliance on the sales tax, a less stable source of revenue than the property tax, made the county vulnerable when the economy slowed and sales tax revenues fell. While saying that the county had cut property taxes "maybe too much," Mr. Gaffney made no mention of raising that tax. He also said a sales tax exemption for clothing costing less than $110 should continue. 
The county collected $761.7 million in sales tax revenues last year, or almost $28 million less than the $789.6 million in revenues Mr. Gaffney's office had projected. Those revenues pay for more than half of general fund expenses, and pay a smaller part of expenses for the police district, which covers the county's five western towns. The county share of the current 8.25 percent sales tax is 4 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES TAX (96%); BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); COUNTIES (91%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (63%) TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; SALES TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES 

PERSON: GAFFNEY, ROBERT J (COUNTY EXEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



556 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: California Orders Blackouts For a Second Straight Day 

BYLINE:  By EVELYN NIEVES 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 20 

 BODY:
Giving slightly more warning than on Monday, the state's power managers today ordered rolling blackouts across California again, leaving hundreds of thousands of residences and businesses in the dark for up to 90 minutes at a time.
 Once more, schools from San Diego to the Oregon border were forced to give students unexpected recesses, workers were idled, and intersections were left without working traffic lights. People were stuck in elevators, and restaurants were stuck with no means to heat or cool food. 
 The blackouts began at 9:30 a.m. They were suspended at 2 p.m., but power managers warned that for the first time since deliberately imposed loss of electricity became a fact of life here two months ago, others might be necessary during the peak evening period, starting at 6 o'clock. 
While there were no catastrophes, the blackouts, affecting about 550,000 customers, left many Californians concerned that the energy crisis resulting from the state's experiment in the deregulation of the power industry was a long way from being resolved.
"This is all we've been hearing about for months," said Dorothy Schmidt, who was trying to cross a busy intersection left without lights in the Pacific Heights district of San Francisco. "When will it end?"
Officials of the Independent System Operator, the agency set up to manage the state's power grid after the industry was deregulated, warned that the crisis could become much worse this summer, when customers live by their air-conditioners.
"As far as blackouts, it could be on and off, depending on the weather and what units we get on line and the amount of energy we could import," said Lisa Szot, a spokeswoman for the agency.
The circumstances that prompted the power managers to order the state's utility companies to shut off power on Monday to nearly a million customers, with virtually no warning, continued today. Unusually warm weather throughout the state caused an increase in the use of air-conditioners; there was a reduction in surplus power from the Pacific Northwest; the state's small energy producers had reduced their output to utilities by half; and a power plant on the California-Nevada border was shut down for repairs.
By late this morning, the power plant was gradually returning to service, though it was not expected to reach full power until Wednesday, officials from the Independent System Operator said.
The blackouts over the last two days, including the first deliberate power blackouts in Southern California since World War II, underscored the failure of the state's electricity-market deregulation, which allowed wholesale prices to skyrocket while capping retail rates. The state's two major investor-owned utilities -- Pacific Gas and Electric, and Southern California Edison -- say wholesale deregulation has left them on the brink of bankruptcy and unable to pay suppliers. 
Gov. Gray Davis and state legislators have been struggling to get a grip on the crisis since Jan. 17-18, when it prompted deliberate blackouts in California for the first time in half a century. Since then, the state has spent close to $3 billion to buy power from large energy producers on behalf of the beleaguered utility companies. At the same time, the state has been negotiating long-term contracts to buy power at better prices with proceeds of some $10 billion in state revenue bonds, and has started a conservation campaign.
Today California legislators and other Western lawmakers urged the Bush administration to impose a temporary cap on wholesale electricity prices to give the region's economy a respite from costs that have soared tenfold in the last few months.
The first wave of blackouts this morning lasted up to 90 minutes and affected more than 125,000 residential and business customers around the state. Los Angeles, which manages its own power, is not on the grid that serves most of California and was not included in the blackout order.
Customers of Pacific Gas and Electric and of San Diego Gas and Electric were the most affected. At least 438,000 residential and business customers of Pacfic Gas and Electric, from Bakersfield to the Oregon border, had experienced blackouts as of early this afternoon, a spokesman said. In the San Diego area, 74,000 customers lost power, while Southern California Edison cut power to 47,462 customers in Santa Monica, Long Beach, Irvine and Pomona and parts of Los Angeles, Kern, Riverside, Ventura and Orange Counties. 
Smaller utility companies also cut off power to customers to reduce the pressure on the state's power supply. In Sacramento, for example, which operates its own municipal utility district, 7,600 customers were affected, while the Modesto Irrigation District, in the central part of the state, shut down power to 10,000.
In Santa Monica, where the sun was bright and the weather almost hot, the lights went out in midmorning at the five-story Charmont Apartments, where two girls were stuck in an elevator.
"We already have notices on the elevator that say, 'Use at your own risk,' " said Dianne Brinkler, the manager. "We put them up weeks ago, when they started doing rolling blackouts in Northern California. And then they take the elevator anyway. A lot of people weren't ready for this."

GRAPHIC: Photo: When the blackouts resume and the floor needs sweeping, Bunchhan Ros is left with natural light at his doughnut shop in Elk Grove, Calif. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (92%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); WHOLESALERS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (88%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (88%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (78%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (74%); RESTAURANTS (71%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); WHOLESALE PRICES (61%); WORLD WAR II (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL) 

COMPANY: PG&E CORP (58%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (56%)

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (58%); PCG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: NIEVES, EVELYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); OREGON, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



557 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: Albany, Fearing Blackouts, Looks to Diesel Generators 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 20 

 BODY:
Concerned about the potential for power shortages, the Pataki administration and the managers of the state's power grid are taking steps to encourage businesses to run their backup diesel generators at times during the summer when electricity use is at its highest. The proposals have raised concerns among environmentalists because diesel generators pollute much more than even coal-burning power plants.
 Several state agencies and the Independent System Operator, an agency that runs the grid, have adopted policies that give companies financial incentives to run those diesels, either through direct payment or lower rates. The state is also considering easing restrictions on when the generators can be used. Statewide programs, aimed mostly at New York City, would be limited to times when there are severe power shortages, but one on Long Island would be permitted to continue through the summer. 
 The state is taking the actions amid concerns that power supplies may be tight during peak-demand months of the summer. 
"No one's thrilled about the thought of using diesel generation, and it is our hope and expectation that these will never be used," said John P. Cahill, senior adviser to the governor. But, he said, "To be prudent, to avoid blackouts, we have to explore all sources of generation."
He said that "the environmental carnage from a blackout would be much worse" than that caused by encouraging limited use of diesels, because in a blackout, every available backup generator would run full time until the power came back on.
Environmentalists vehemently oppose widespread use of diesels, which are hundreds of times dirtier than state-of-the-art plants fired by natural gas.
"It's dirty, it's dumb and it shouldn't be done," said Peter M. Iwanowicz, director of environmental health at the American Lung Association in New York. "The state is talking about giving incentives to turn these things on when demand is highest, which is when temperatures are hottest and smog is at its worst. It's the worst possible time to spew diesel fumes at the public."
Some environmental groups are considering whether to take legal action to stop the plans, while others acknowledge that it makes sense to enlist new sources of electricity and are simply trying to alter the programs to lessen their effects on air quality. Mr. Cahill said the administration was open to some alterations.
The Independent System Operator for New England, and the one for New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland and part of Virginia, have taken similar steps to encourage the use of diesel generators, but it is not clear whether they will overcome resistance from air quality regulators.
In New York, several efforts are under way to avoid power shortages this summer, but no one can predict the likelihood of blackouts, which rests on intangibles like the weather, the reliability of power plants and the state of the economy. The New York Power Authority is also installing by summer 11 new small plants in the city and on Long Island that will burn natural gas. 
No one knows precisely how many New York businesses have diesel generators, but all sides agree that they are concentrated in New York City, which already fails to meet federal air quality standards. Mr. Cahill said that Consolidated Edison and the State Public Service Commission were conducting a survey of generators and their output.
The state and environmental groups estimate that there are 1,000 to 1,500 diesel generators in the city, in hospitals, high-rise office towers, industrial plants and big institutions like universities. Some generators are large enough to supply the entire building's power needs, while others can provide just enough to run a few elevators and supply emergency lighting. At present, the use of a generator is restricted almost exclusively to blackouts.
Nathaniel Green at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group that has had a good relationship with Gov. George E. Pataki, said that generators totaling as much as 300 megawatts might take part in one or another of the state programs, with a pollution output equivalent to that of 420,000 cars.
Anne K. Reynolds of Environmental Advocates said, "Environmentally, this is disastrous, dangerous policy."
The State Department of Environmental Conservation classifies most diesel generators as "emergency exempt," meaning they can be used only in blackouts. As long as they have that classification, they are not subject to any pollution rules. Environmentalists say most of the existing generators would be unable to meet state emissions standards.
The Independent System Operator has asked the department, which the governor controls, to expand the definition of "emergency exempt" so that the diesels could be used more often, a crucial part of the overall effort to enlist them in widening the power supply. Even without financial incentives, experts say, many big consumers would take advantage of relaxed rules on diesel generation to escape high electric rates.
Officials at the system operator organization and environmentalists say the Pataki administration plans to expand the definition to allow backup generators to be used more often. Mr. Cahill, who until last month was the commissioner of the Department of Environmental Conservation, would not directly state the administration's position. But he said, "I think it would make sense to have an emergency be defined not when the lights go out, but when there's a likelihood that the lights will go out."
Long Island is considered the part of the metropolitan region most at risk for power shortages this summer. The Long Island Power Authority, whose board is appointed by the governor, has approved a program that would allow businesses to generate power and agree not to draw any electricity off the grid from June 1 through Sept. 30, Monday through Friday, from noon to 8 p.m., the months, days and hours when demand and air pollution are highest. In return, those customers would get lower rates the rest of the year.
The Long Island program would have diesel generators turned on for up to 85 days and 680 hours over the summer, a marked contrast to the insistence of state and Independent System Operator officials that the statewide programs would have generators running for just a few days.
"It's amazingly badly designed," said Laurence DeWitt of the Pace Energy Project of Pace University. "It's not limited to threatened blackouts or any other emergency."
Richard M. Kessel, chairman of the Long Island authority, said all the backup generators on Long Island combined would have an output of about 100 megawatts, enough to power a large town. But he said he expected only businesses accounting for about 8 megawatts to sign up for the program. 
Environmentalists say they fear participation will be much higher. 
"I can understand the criticism," Mr. Kessel said. "But there's a struggle to get every megawatt we can to make sure that Long Islanders don't experience what Californians are going through."
Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, chairman of the Environmental Conservation Committee, called the Long Island program "patently illegal," because state law says that a generator cannot operate more than 500 hours a year without a permit from the Department of Environmental Conservation, and without meeting emissions standards. He said the department had failed to police what the Long Island Power Authority was doing.
The Independent System Operator was created in 1999 to run New York State's power grid. The organization functions somewhat like the New York Stock Exchange: it provides the marketplace where power is bought and sold, and it sets the rules for that marketplace. It is governed by a board with representatives from power plant owners, utilities, power retailers, consumer and environmental groups, and the Pataki administration.
The organization already has a program that pays the owners of electric generators simply for having that capacity available and for pledging to turn it on when asked to do so. The payment in New York City is $105,000 per year for each megawatt of capacity (a typical big building's generator is about a megawatt). Few small generators now take advantage of the program, but the organization wants to sign up more, one reason it asked the state to change the rules governing diesels.
In January, the organization adopted a policy that when there was a threat of a blackout, it would pay consumers to reduce or suspend their energy use, probably just for a few hours at a time. The Pataki administration's representatives voted for the move.
Officials at the organization say that the program would be available only to large commercial users over the first year or two, and would in effect encourage use of backup diesel generators. It requires the approval of the Federal Energy Regulatory Committee, which has not ruled.
A large office building or hospital that used the program could avoid thousands of dollars in spending for electricity in a single day, while reaping thousands of dollars from the Independent System Operator.
Mr. DeWitt and other environmentalists have asked the administration to make a number of changes, including a requirement that diesels use the cleanest available fuel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (92%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); DIESEL FUEL (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SMOG (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (57%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; DIESEL POWER; SHORTAGES; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL) 

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT SYSTEM OPERATOR 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; CAHILL, JOHN P; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; LONG ISLAND (NY); NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



558 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
LEVI STRAUSS QUARTERLY PROFIT FALLS BY MORE THAN HALF

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 Levi Strauss & Company said yesterday that its first-quarter profit fell by more than 50 percent as the weakening economy slowed the jeans maker's turnaround efforts. The company, based in San Francisco, earned $29.6 million in the three months ended Feb. 27, a 55 percent drop from $65.2 million a year earlier. 
First-quarter sales fell 8 percent, to $996 million, as consumers worldwide cut spending amid uneasiness about a possible recession. Levi's began the quarter with a 3 percent increase in its December sales, but then ran into a sharp downturn in late January and all of February. Much of the sluggishness can be traced to disappointing holiday season results that left retailers with a glut of merchandise, said Philip Marineau, the chairman. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MEN'S APPAREL MFG (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); RETAILERS (86%); APPAREL MFG (72%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (97%)

ORGANIZATION: LEVI STRAUSS & CO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (97%) SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' TROUSERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



559 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 246 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
4th-Quarter Results For Ad Spending

BYLINE:  By Suzanne Kapner 

 BODY:
Despite record advertising spending last year, signs of a slowdown were evident by the fourth quarter, as seen in figures released yesterday by CMR, formerly Competitive Media Reporting.
 Ad spending rose 13.3 percent, to $101.6 billion, in 2000 from $89.7 billion in 1999, according to CMR, owned by Taylor Nelson Sofres, but the increase in the fourth quarter from the period a year earlier was only 6.1 percent. 
By comparison, the increases in the first three quarters compared with the first three quarters of 1999 were 16.3 percent, 17.5 percent and 15.1 percent. 
 And in December 2000, ad spending rose just 1 percent from December 1999.
"The convergence of a robust economy, extraordinary dot-com spending, heated political ad campaigns and the Olympics brought about the industry's greatest increase in six years," said David Peeler, president and chief executive at CMR in New York. "Of course, apprehensions of a possible recession were manifested in November and December, and we are certain to see that reserved spending trend continue in early 2001."
In 2000, the medium with the highest percentage increase in ad sales was network radio, up 105.6 percent, to $952.89 million from $463.48 million. Internet advertising had the second-highest percentage increase, up 53 percent, to $2.89 billion from $1.89 billion. General Motors remained the largest American advertiser despite an overall decrease of 2.5 percent, to $2.88 billion in 2000 from $2.96 billion in 1999.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%) ADVERTISING; FINANCES 

COMPANY: TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CMR (CO) 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



560 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: EUROPE; 
ELECTRONICS MAKER SEES DOWNTURN

BYLINE:  By Suzanne Kapner 

 BODY:
 Royal Philips Electronics, the Dutch consumer electronics manufacturer, said the weakening economy in the United States and a slowdown in telecommunication and personal computer sales would crimp first-quarter profit at its semiconductor unit. 
Royal Philips Electronics said it expected operating profit for the division to be 10 percent below that of a year ago, when the company earned 241 million euros ($216.6 million) before interest and taxes. Sales at the division are expected to rise 7 percent, less than the 15 percent the company had forecast. Philips will report results on April 17. Suzanne Kapner

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (93%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (92%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (88%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (88%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); COMPUTER CHIPS (85%); SEMICONDUCTORS (85%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES; FINANCES; COMPUTER CHIPS 

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS 

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (90%); PHIA (AMS) (90%); PHG (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%)

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



561 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 79 words

HEADLINE: WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING: ASIA; 
SLUMP IN KOREA

BYLINE:  By Don Kirk 

 BODY:
 Economic output in South Korea fell 0.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2000 from the quarter before, the first time it contracted since the economic crisis of 1998. 
For the full year, gross domestic product grew 8.8 percent, slower than the 10.9 percent in 1999. Chung Jung Ho of the Bank of Korea said economic growth could be expected to revive in the second half of 2001 unless "foreign factors" -- like a slowdown in the United States -- caused problems. Don Kirk

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); TRENDS (84%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT 

COMPANY: BANK OF KOREA (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%)

PERSON: KIRK, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (50%) SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



562 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing; 
JOB GAINS IN NEW JERSEY

BYLINE:  By Steve Strunsky 

 BODY:
 New Jersey gained 4,000 jobs in February, mostly in construction, for a record total of 4,033,100 jobs, the State Labor Department said yesterday. 
The department said the monthly unemployment rate held steady at 3.6 percent. It was the 14th straight month that the state jobless rate was below the national average, which was 4.2 percent in February, the Labor Department said. The last time New Jersey's unemployment rate was lower was 1970, at 3.3 percent. Steve Strunsky

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: STRUNSKY, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



563 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing; 
PAPER MILL TO SHUT DOWN

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 Officials at the Deferiet Paper Company in Deferiet, N.Y., near Watertown, announced yesterday that they would shut down the mill tomorrow morning. Some employees will stay on the job to maintain the mill but an undisclosed number of people will lose their jobs. 
The company cited several reasons for the shutdown, including higher costs for pulp, a booming overseas market that produces paper cheaper and the rising cost of energy. Company officials said they also expected to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection while seeking refinancing or a buyer. Two other paper mills in northern New York have closed in recent months. The closure of Appleton Papers in Newton Falls forced 125 people out of work, and the shutdown of Lyons Falls Pulp and Paper left 186 people without jobs.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAPER MILLS (92%); PAPER & PACKAGING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); PULP MILLS (88%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (53%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (53%) PAPER AND PULP; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: DEFERIET PAPER CO (91%); LYONS FALLS PULP & PAPER INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: DEFERIET PAPER CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC2611 PULP MILLS (91%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (70%) SIC2611 PULP MILLS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (58%) DEFERIET (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



564 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
ROGOWSKY, THE HON. EDWARD T.

 BODY:
ROGOWSKY-The Hon. Edward T. The staff, faculty and friends of the Pratt Institute Center for Community and Environmental Development deeply mourn the loss of our friend, colleague and collaborator, Ed Rogowsky. Ed was an inspiration and mentor to generations of students at Brooklyn College and at the City University of New York where he won their love, loyalty and admiration by his humor and intellect. His friendship knew no boundaries and he sought to befriend, help and educate everyone. He brought insight, integrity and clarity into New York's political community. He inspired all those who had the opportunity to serve with him on the NYC Planning Commission since his appointment in 1990. Brooklyn, where he was born and lived; New York which he loved, studied, wrote about and served; and the world are far better places because Ed cared and played a role in trying to make them better. Ed was a father, grandfather, a loving partner to Peter and part of many extended families, including our own. He will be missed. Rudy Bryant, Associate Director Ron Shiffman, Director 
ROGOWSKY-Edward T. The City University of New York mourns the untimely loss of our esteemed colleague and Brooklyn College alumnus, The Hon. Edward T. Rogowsky, insightful city editor and host of "Metro View", CUNY-TV's weekly public affairs program; director of the CUNY Internship Program in Government and Public Affairs; professor emeritus of political science at Brooklyn College, where he was director of the Brookyn College Graduate Center for Worker Education; and member of the New York City Planning Commission. His dedicated teaching, commitment to public service and loving personality will be long remembered. We extend our deepest condolences to his beloved family. Herman Badillo, Chairman, Board of Trustees Matthew Goldstein, Chancellor 
ROGOWSKY-Hon. Edward T. The management and employees of Forest City Ratner Companies mourn the passing of a great teacher, a devoted public servant and a good friend. No one knew more about Brooklyn or loved it more deeply. As a member of the City Planning Commission, an activist and scholar, Ed played a prominent role in shaping the redevelopment of his beloved native borough. We extend our deepest condolences to his loved ones. Bruce Ratner, President and Chief Executive Officer 
ROGOWSKY-Edward. The staff of Program Planners Inc. is deeply saddened by the loss of our colleague and friend Ed. His sharp insights about the working of our city, his appreciation of its history and understanding of its people will be missed. His assistance was invaluable in our endeavor to create a video record of the 1970's municipal fiscal crisis. His genuine warmth touched us all. We extend our sympathies to his family. Jack Bigel, President Allen Brawer, Nancy Gaeta, Burt Lazarin, Michael Spear 
 ROGOWSKY-Edward. The Brooklyn College Community mourns the passing of Professor Emeritus of the Department of Political Science, Edward Rogowsky. He was director of the Brooklyn College Graduate Center for Worker Education. His 33 years of teaching and service will be long remembered. Christoph M. Kimmich President, Brooklyn College 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); CITIES (77%); FAMILY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%) 

COMPANY: RATNER COS (81%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (81%)

PERSON: ROGOWSKY, THE HON. EDWARD T. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



565 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 342 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Hewlett-Packard Pins High Hopes on New Printers

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 20 

 BODY:
Hewlett-Packard released a new line of Internet-enabled laser printers today that the company said would take it one step closer to its vision of a world of connected devices.
 The four new models, priced at $399 to $1,099, allow users to beam documents for printing from wireless devices, check the paper and toner levels of individual printers from a Web page and scan documents directly onto the Internet. 
 Hewlett-Packard, which is based in Palo Alto, Calif., hopes the machines will rejuvenate its $20-billion-a-year printing and imaging business, which has suffered during the economic slowdown. Although consumers and corporations are spending less on technology, the company says the new machines will encourage upgrades. 
"We think this is going to generate a lot of interest in displacing those 50 million LaserJet printers already out there," said Vyomesh Joshi, a Hewlett-Packard president. "H.P. is reinventing imaging and printing again."
Hewlett-Packard is not the first printer maker to offer Internet connectivity, but the advancements are a crucial component of the vision laid out by its chief executive, Carleton S. Fiorina. Ms. Fiorina has said she wants Hewlett-Packard to be at the center of an "ecosystem" of devices connected by the Internet. 
"It's really, really late," Mark Specker, an analyst with Wit SoundView, said of the product release. "They've been talking about these products for three years. It would have been really, really hot a year ago."
According to Mr. Joshi, several of the machines produce almost twice as many pages a minute as the Hewlett-Packard printers they are replacing, but they cost the same. 
Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, an investment bank in Manhattan, said the pricing of the new models might help consumers more than Hewlett-Packard's profits. He said resellers had voiced concerns that customers who cared more about a printer's price than about its features might downgrade to less-expensive models.
Hewlett-Packard shares fell $1.19, or 4 percent, to $29.31. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINTER MFG (90%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (79%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (58%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER PRINTERS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (65%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (65%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



566 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: Rohm & Haas Expects a Drop in Profit 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, March 20 

 BODY:
The Rohm & Haas Company, one of the world's largest makers of specialty chemicals, said today that its first-quarter profit would be lower than expected because of rising energy costs and slower demand from industrial customers.
 Profit will be 27 cents to 29 cents a share, lower than the 35 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call, and less than half the level a year earlier, the company said. 
Rohm & Haas, like other chemical makers, has been hurt by a slowing economy, which has dampened demand from customers including automobile and construction companies, and by energy and raw materials costs that have soared in the last year. 
 "We said earlier that we expected our first-quarter comparison to be ugly, and those expectations have been met," the chief executive, Rajiv Gupta, said. "It's not the way I like to meet expectations." 
Rohm & Haas said its performance polymers unit, which makes adhesive tapes and additives in acrylic paints and plastics, has been hurt the most. The business unit accounts for almost half the company's annual sales.
 Mr. Gupta said that the Philadelphia-based Rohm & Haas was cutting back on expenses, like travel, and had frozen hiring in some areas. Some plants have reduced their output, operating five rather than seven days a week, he said. 
Mr. Gupta also said fluctuations in currency values had affected business. Rohm & Haas was hurt last year by a weak euro, which reduced the value of sales in Europe when translated into dollars. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (91%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); PLASTICS (90%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (78%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PAINTS & COATINGS (74%); POLYMERS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); CURRENCIES (64%); EXECUTIVES (54%) CHEMICALS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: ROHM & HAAS CO (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ROHM & HAAS CO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325520 ADHESIVE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (96%) SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESINS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%) EUROPE (75%); UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



567 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: Hi, I'm in Bangalore (but I Can't Say So) 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India, March 15 

 BODY:
With frosted glass and funky amber lights playing off the turquoise walls, the offices of Customer Asset look more like a Santa Fe diner than a telephone call center in southern India. The cultural vertigo is complete when employees introduce themselves to a visitor.
 "Hi, my name is Susan Sanders, and I'm from Chicago," said C. R. Suman, 22, who is in fact a native of Bangalore and fields calls from customers of a telecommunications company in the United States. 
 Ms. Suman's fluent English and broad vowels would pass muster in the stands at Wrigley Field. In case her callers ask personal questions, Ms. Suman has conjured up a fictional American life, with parents Bob and Ann, brother Mark and a made-up business degree from the University of Illinois. 
"We watch a lot of 'Friends' and 'Ally McBeal' to learn the right phrases," Ms. Suman said. "When people talk about their Bimmer, you have to know they mean a BMW."
"Or when they say 'No way, Jose,' there is no Jose," added Ms. Suman's co-worker, Nishara Anthony, who goes by the name Naomi Morrison and, if asked, says she comes from Perth Amboy, N.J.
The point of this pretense is to convince Americans who dial toll-free numbers that the person on the other end of the line works right nearby -- not 8,300 miles away, in a country where static-free calls used to be a novelty.
Call centers are a booming business in India, as companies like General Electric and British Airways set up supermarket-size phone banks to handle a daily barrage of customer inquiries. The companies value India for its widespread use of English and low-cost labor. 
But call centers are only the low end of a much larger industry of Indian software developers, transcribers, accountants, Web site designers and animation artists who work on projects for foreign companies from Indian offices. By 2008, such assignments will generate 800,000 new jobs and $17 billion in revenue for India, according to the consultants McKinsey & Company.
"India is on its way to being the back office for the world," said Shriram Ramdas, one of the founders of Bangalore Labs, which manages Web sites and other information networks for companies from a futuristic office in the International Tech Park on the outskirts of Bangalore.
Doing back-office chores for advanced economies may not sound glamorous, especially for a nation that has created an $8 billion computer software industry virtually from scratch in the last decade. But it could spread the wealth of India's technology revolution beyond the pockets of prosperity that exist today in Bangalore, Hyderabad and a few other hubs of high technology.
"Right now, when you come to our campus, you're leaving India behind," said N. R. Narayana Murthy, the chairman of Infosys Technologies, one of India's most successful software companies and the first to be listed on Nasdaq. "We're living in a make-believe world."
With its putting green, aerobics studio, basketball court and even a deer park, the Infosys headquarters is a powerful symbol of what technology has brought to India since the late 1980's. Companies like Infosys and the rival Wipro Ltd. are deeply embedded in the microchips of dozens of the largest American businesses.
Unlike Taiwan or South Korea, which became known as low-cost producers of computer hardware, India made its name as an unparalleled customer service agent. While their American clients sleep, software writers churn out code, which is then beamed by satellite to the United States.
These services became so valuable that the founders of Infosys and Wipro were able to take their companies public at dot-com-like valuations. Mr. Murthy became a billionaire, and stock options showered unheard-of riches on even low-level employees. The man who serves tea to Mr. Murthy recently cashed in his options to buy a $100,000 house. His driver bought his own car.
About 2.8 million people work in India's technology industry, even with a steady exodus of top software developers to Silicon Valley or suburban Boston. Yet the industry, despite its breakneck growth, still accounts for only 2 percent of India's total economic output of $450 billion.
For all the talk about the Indian technology revolution, the technology industry has made only a glancing impression on the physical landscape of the country. Bangalore is ringed by technology parks that could be in Palo Alto or Austin. But the city itself is a mess, with potholed roads, crumbling buildings and a ramshackle, overburdened airport with no international flights.
For technology to make a dent in the pervasive poverty of this country, Mr. Murthy contends, it must account for 10 percent of India's gross domestic product. At current growth rates, India will have a $900 billion economy in 2010; technology would then have to be a $90 billion industry. "We need to broaden the base of technology in India," Mr. Murthy said. "This new business will be very valuable as a way to generate jobs for people who are not as skilled as software programmers."
Although back-office work is not particularly challenging for a company like Infosys, Mr. Murthy said he would consider expanding into it, if only to create thousands of more jobs in Bangalore.
Jobs in call centers are coveted here. While the salaries are hardly lucrative by technology industry standards -- anywhere from $1,600 to $2,100 a year -- they beat those for most clerical positions.
"In the U.S., these jobs are taken by housewives or kids who haven't decided what they want to do with their lives," said K. Ghanesh, 39, the founder of Customer Asset. "Here, they are career jobs for college graduates."
The back-office business may help cushion India from the economic slowdown in the United States. As companies cut their spending on new computer systems, Indian software producers are likely to feel the pinch.
But routine work, like processing insurance claims or settling credit card bills, goes on no matter what the economic climate. Indeed, as companies look for ways to cut costs, more of them may send such work to India, where wages often run half those in the United States.
Sending jobs abroad in uncertain times does not bring good publicity to American companies. None of the foreign clients of Customer Asset permit the company to disclose their names, and the offices are scrupulously bare of any reference to non-Indian clients. A spokesman said only that Ms. Anthony and Ms. Suman serve a telecommunications company based in the United States.
It would not be the first time that America's misery is India's opportunity.
Ashok Soota, a prominent technology executive who recently started his own software consulting firm, noted that India's high-technology industry was born in 1991, a recession year, when American companies first looked overseas for skilled, but cheap, programmers to update their computer systems.
"This slowdown will force us to explore new markets," Mr. Soota said. "But this time, there is another factor -- bandwidth."
In the last two years, India has installed reliable high-capacity telephone lines in most of its major cities. That makes it possible for people in this country to communicate with customers in the United States, by phone or over the Internet, with no discernible difference from a calling center in Nebraska.
The improved telephone network has essentially erased the advantage of other countries that offer back-office services -- notably Ireland, one of the growth leaders of the expensive new Europe.
India's greatest strength in this business may prove to be its ability to adapt, chameleon-like, to its customers. For a decade, Infosys, Wipro and others have run development centers in the United States to reduce the anxiety of American companies in dealing with foreigners.
Now, companies here are blurring the line between India and the United States further. Mr. Ramdas of Bangalore Labs plans to relocate to Northern California so he can live among his customers. Mr. Soota's partner, Subroto Bagchi, also plans to move, to North Jersey, in two months.
"We see ourselves as a next-generation company that is neither Indian nor American," Mr. Bagchi said.
In recent years, the best engineers and programmers left India for the United States. But as India's industry has matured, emigres are returning home to apply the lessons of the American market in local companies. In some cases, they bring home the culture as well.
At Customer Asset and other call centers, Indian trainers who have lived in the United States drill new employees in phonetics, American pop culture and colloquialisms.
"If you're hiring people for Citibank," said Gayatri Balaji, vice president for client services, "you want them to know that bulls and bears are not just different animals found in nature."
The regimen includes listening to the likes of "Friends" and "Ally McBeal" without the picture, and then reconstructing the dialogue. The new recruits are put through role-playing sessions in which the trainer, posing as a caller, interrogates them on American movies, sports and television programs.
At Customer Asset, employees are allowed to fashion their own telephone aliases and identities. Ms. Anthony chose "Naomi Morrison" because, she said, she has the same skin tone as the model Naomi Campbell and is a fan of the late Jim Morrison.
"If I gave people my Indian name, it would be too confusing," said Ms. Anthony, a 26-year-old from Cochin, a coastal city. "The whole intention is for them to understand us, and us to understand them."
And what happens if a caller asks too many questions?
"When the conversation goes too deeply into Chicago," Ms. Suman said, "you just ask politely, 'Can we get back to business?' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nishara Anthony (a k a Naomi Morrison), left, and C. R. Suman (or Susan Sanders) seem all-American at work in Bangalore, India. (Namas Bhojani for The New York Times) Map of India highlights Bangalore: Bangalore, India, has become an international telecommunications service center of a particular sort. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); CALL CENTERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TOLL FREE SERVICES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (67%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); ANIMATION (50%) CORPORATIONS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ENGLISH LANGUAGE 

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (81%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (53%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); SOUTH INDIA (92%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%); ANDHRA PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%) INDIA

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



568 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Executives Signal No Layoffs In San Jose Paper's Newsroom 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
A day after the publisher of The San Jose Mercury News resigned rather than meet the profit targets of its owner, Knight Ridder, two top managers at the newspaper signaled that they could make the necessary cutbacks without laying off employees.
 A newspaperwide memo yesterday from the executive editor, David M. Yarnold, and the general manager, Mindi Keirnan, said: "We will reduce jobs, but these reductions will be primarily through elimination of shifts, cutting overtime, trimming freelance spending and freezing jobs. These reductions will be throughout the company. They will involve restructuring and elimination of some work." 
 Mr. Yarnold also met with two hundred or more journalists at the newspaper in Silicon Valley early in the afternoon and took out a piece of paper that he said contained a list of proposed layoffs. He then tore up the list, saying there would be no newsroom layoffs.
The threat of layoffs first emerged two weeks ago in a memo from the newspaper's former publisher, Jay T. Harris. On Monday, Mr. Harris resigned, saying he could not meet the profit targets without damaging the newspaper's journalism.
The same day, a memo from three top Knight Ridder executives indicated that the idea of layoffs in The Mercury News's newsroom had been abandoned before Mr. Harris's resignation. 
The resignation continued to reverberate in the newspaper industry yesterday, but the reactions were increasingly complex, as some editors at other papers questioned the speed at which the Mercury News newsroom staff had expanded last year -- from about 380 to about 410 -- during the height of the Silicon Valley economic boom. They asked, in effect, whether Mr. Harris might have alleviated the pain of the recent downturn had he been more modest in his expansion program.
In an interview yesterday, Mr. Harris said: "The additions we made last year were made for two reasons, which I would have done even if I knew a downturn was coming. One was we had a request for Knight Ridder to strengthen ourselves as a national brand by strengthening our coverage in technology. So we strengthened the staff some there. The other additions were made to prepare for the competition with The Chronicle."
He was referring to The Mercury News's neighbor to the north, The San Francisco Chronicle, which was purchased by the Hearst Corporation in a deal completed last year, enhancing The Chronicle's status as a dominant power in the Bay Area's fierce journalism competition.
Yesterday's memo from Mr. Yarnold and Ms. Keirnan said that coming changes and cost-cutting at The Mercury News would "be prudent and protective of the long-term interests of this newspaper."
Newspapers around the country have been squeezed by a decline in advertising that has spared some markets but hurt business over all. The San Jose newspaper with a weekday circulation of about 287,000, however, was hit hard by a decline in high-margin help-wanted advertising and a simultaneous increase in newsprint costs.
While the buzz about Mr. Harris's resignation was continuing among editors in Knight Ridder and other newspaper companies, executives at Knight Ridder kept a low profile yesterday.
A telephone message for Steve Rossi, president of the Knight Ridder newspaper division, was not returned by last evening.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); OVERTIME (77%); INTERVIEWS (72%) NEWSPAPERS; LABOR; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: KNIGHT RIDDER; SAN JOSE MERCURY NEWS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; YARNOLD, DAVID M; KEIRNAN, MINDI; HARRIS, JAY T 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



569 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Rushing To Shed Themselves Of High-Interest Debt 

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
Individuals reeling from losses in their stock portfolios can take some solace in lower interest rates that will make it easier to reduce their monthly credit card, mortgage and other bills.
 Consumers have been rushing to lock in lower rates on their mortgages, swap expensive credit card debt for cheaper home equity loans and take advantage of declining rates for auto loans and certain credit cards. 
 "People are looking at their debt more opportunistically," said Chris Larsen, chief executive of E-Loan. "The way people are used to monitoring their stock portfolios, they now apply to loan rates." 
As rates started to tumble last fall, mortgage refinancings picked up sharply. "This will be a big year," said Robert Van Order, chief economist at Freddie Mac. "Our models show that this could be close to 1998." That year, with mortgage rates at historic lows, a record $1.5 trillion in home loans was recorded, of which half were existing loans being refinanced, also a record, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association of America.
The average rate on a 30-year home loan has fallen to 7.02 percent as of last Wednesday from 8.69 percent as recently as last May, according to Bankrate.com. With rates on one-year adjustable-rate mortgages not much lower, at 6.57 percent, many bankers are advising clients to lock in the longer-term rates. 
Mark Koffsky, a 31-year-old patent lawyer in West Hempstead, N.Y., refinanced his mortgage three weeks ago and substantially lowered his monthly costs. For him, the motivations included falling interest rates and a change by the Federal National Mortgage Association, the leading buyer of mortgages in the nation. 
Mr. Koffsky's mortgage two years ago was over $240,000, meaning he needed a jumbo mortgage, which carries a higher interest rate. Since then, Fannie Mae has raised the cutoff for conventional mortgages that it buys to $275,000, allowing Mr. Koffsky to qualify for a lower rate. By swapping his 30-year loan for a new one, he saved $300 a month.
In some cases, rates may drop low enough to benefit even recent home buyers. Greg Bennett, who bought a house six months ago in Huntersville, a suburb of Charlotte, N.C., plans to complete his refinancing on Friday. His new rate will be 6.625 percent, down from 8 percent. "It was too good to pass up," Mr. Bennett said. 
Mortgage bankers expect refinancing to remain strong but are warning clients not to wait for additional rate cuts. 
"I've had clients calling me every day asking, 'If the Fed lowers rates by half a point, does that mean mortgage rates will fall half a percent?' " said Gary Lieb, a mortgage broker with the Apple Mortgage Corporation in Manhattan. "The answer is absolutely not." 
The fixed rate on a 30-year mortgage tends to be driven less by short-term rates, which the Federal Reserve pushed down a half percentage point yesterday, than by the Treasury bond market. 
The Treasury market had largely anticipated the Fed's reduction yesterday. But the price on the 10-year Treasury rose late yesterday as investors fled stocks for the safety of government securities. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, is 4.75 percent, the lowest since early 1999.
Greg McBride, an analyst at Bankrate.com, said, "At this point, to hold out for rates to move significantly lower is a gamble that may not pay off."
The Fed action yesterday will have a greater impact on other forms of debt, Mr. McBride said. Credit cards with variable interest rates, auto loans and home equity lines tend to be pegged to the prime rate, the basic rate that banks charge their most creditworthy customers. The prime closely tracks Fed rates, and big banks cut their prime rate yesterday by half a point, to 8 percent.
Variable rates on credit cards have remained steady; 17.29 percent as of last Wednesday compared with 17.36 percent in December, according to Bankrate.com. But that does not reflect the Fed's three rate cuts, totaling 1.5 percentage points, this year. That is because card issuers generally wait until after the end of a quarter to adjust their rates, Mr. McBride said. "It may take another statement cycle or two for the rate cuts to kick in," he said. 
The cost of the average 48-month new-car loan has already fallen, to 9.3 percent last Wednesday from 9.64 percent at the end of last year, according to Bankrate.com.
Consumers trying to get rid of credit card debt have been increasingly turning to home equity loans, a trend that is benefiting from the lower rates charged for these financings. The average home equity line of credit was 8.48 percent as of last Wednesday, down from 9.33 percent in late December.
Kathleen M. Davis, 52, a business practices manager with Hercules Inc. in Wilmington, Del., has a 20-year fixed mortgage and a 7-year fixed-rate home equity loan on the house in Hockessin, Del., that she has owned for 23 years. Having refinanced her house several times to help pay college tuition for her two sons, Ms. Davis, a single mother, now hoped to roll both debts into one.
"I'm going to have to sit down and look at the rates and see what will make the most financial sense," she said. "This is another way for me to save some money and pay off credit cards."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Impact on Consumers"The three interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve this year have helped lower mortgage rates and created a renewed wave of interest in refinancing existing mortgages. The effect has not been all positive, though. Credit card rates have been slow to fall, and the interest rates on certificates of deposit and money market accounts are below their 1998 levels. Graphs track the following from 1998-2001: MORTGAGE RATES*30-year fixed1-year adjustable REFINANCING RATEShare of new mortgage applications that are for refinancings AVERAGE CREDIT CARD RATE*Variable rateFixed rate SAVINGS ACCOUNTS RATES*6-month C.D.Money market account *Based on weekly average rates at the five largest banks and five largest savings and loans in the 10 largest markets. (Sources: Bankrate.com; Mortgage Bankers Association)(pg. C16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (79%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (77%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (77%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%); PATENTS (50%) CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; CONSUMER CREDIT; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%)

ORGANIZATION: MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%)

PERSON: MARSHALL O LARSEN (55%) ATLAS, RIVA D 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



570 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section H; Column 1; Retirement; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: THE POLITICS OF AGING; 
An Older Electorate, Potent and Unpredictable

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AS the American electorate grows older with millions of baby boomers staring at their late 50's and turnout declining among the young -- strategists for Democrats and Republicans alike are bracing for what they expect to be the fiercest struggle yet for older hearts, and votes, in the 2002 midterm elections. 
 For years, Democrats counted older Americans among their most unwavering supporters. They assumed that those voters would never abandon the party that created Social Security and Medicare. But these days, most older voters remember Ronald Reagan far better than they do Franklin D. Roosevelt, and it is no longer safe to assume that voters who are 60 and older will reflexively back Democrats. 
 "Seniors are, absolutely, up for grabs," said John Rother, the chief lobbyist for AARP, the largest advocacy group for older Americans. "The parties are paying more attention than ever to the senior vote. There's a recognition that neither side can take it for granted."
That recognition is underscored by a statistic that was obscured by the postelection hostilities in Florida last fall. After Al Gore made "saving Social Security" his battle cry (and after his running mate, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, spent so much time in Florida retirement colonies he might as well have lived there), George W. Bush defeated Mr. Gore among Floridians 65 and older by 52 to 46 percent, according to exit polls. Given Mr. Bush's overall margin of victory, it can fairly be said that Florida's older voters handed him the presidency.
One reason Republicans were successful was that they were not timid about seeking support from elderly Floridians -- among other things, inundating them with telephone recordings from Barbara Bush. The results have emboldened Republicans to do more of the same in 2002.
"The message we've walked away with, at least in Republican circles in Florida," said Ed Goeas, a Republican pollster, "is that when there was such a focus on seniors all the way through, we were able to battle over seniors to a victory."
Not all the news for Democrats was bad. In four states where Mr. Bush lost narrowly -- Iowa, New Mexico, Oregon and Washington -- Mr. Gore edged him out among older voters. In the nation over all, Mr. Gore got 51 percent and Mr. Bush got 47 percent of the 60-and-over vote, compared with a 48-48 split among all voters, the exit polls found. Mr. Gore did particularly well among older women. But in 1992, Bill Clinton did fully seven percentage points better among older voters than he did among voters as a whole.
Except for the Ronald Reagan landslide of 1984, Democrats carried the 60-and-older vote in House races from 1980 through 1992. Since then, Republicans have largely prevailed among older voters.
"Senior citizen issues will be in play continuously from one election to another from here on out, as opposed to the past when they've only come to the fore periodically," said Robert H. Binstock, a professor of aging, health and society at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. "There will be this great concern not to let the other party get a jump -- and to try to get a jump yourself."
By the mid-2030's, some analysts predict, people 60 and older could account for one-third of the electorate. (In the 2000 presidential campaign, those voters made up 22 percent of the total vote.)
But Professor Binstock, among other experts, warned that older Americans were by no means a monolith driven only by age-related interests and programs like Social Security and Medicare.
For example, older women were far more likely to vote Democratic in last year's elections than older men were. While this is also true for women in general, older women may have an additional reason for voting Democratic: because they are far less economically secure than older men, they may be more responsive to Democrats' promises to protect government benefits. 
Still, it is clear that older voters as a whole are less reliably Democratic than they once were, and strategists and academics cite many explanations. 
One is shifting demographics. The ranks of the New Deal generation are thinning. There is also more economic diversity among older voters; well-off people are more apt to embrace Republican economic proposals.
"The people who remember where Medicare and Social Security came from are not there anymore," said Representative Louise Slaughter, Democrat of New York. "Certainly they're still voting in large numbers. But we don't have the solid Democratic vote that we used to have."
During the health care debate in 1993-94, Ms. Slaughter said, retired Democrats were particularly susceptible to direct-mail solicitations that were intended to prey on their fears. "I was amazed at the number of people who didn't realize Medicare was a government program," she said.
Democrats also lost ground, analysts say, because Mr. Bush had some success in neutralizing Mr. Gore's appeal on issues like prescription drug benefits and Medicare and Social Security overhaul.
Gov. John M. Engler, a Republican from Michigan, said that it was safer than it used to be for Republicans to raise the prospect of tinkering with Social Security, including investing some of its funds in private accounts. "An awful lot of seniors worry about their children and grandchildren," he said. "You can make some headway."
Another reason for the Republican gains, at least in this election, pollsters say, was older Americans' sensitivity to issues of morality and values. Many presumably took out their anger with Mr. Clinton on his vice president.
"We've got to work on the issue of trust, of values, of morals," said Representative Mark Udall, Democrat of Colorado, adding that his party must convince voters "that Democrats are as pro-family as Republicans."
Mr. Udall said that in his re-election drive last year, he put a special focus on older voters. "I really emphasized prescription drugs efforts and H.M.O. reforms, and spent a lot of time in senior centers and nursing homes," he said.
While Republicans are more and more hopeful about attracting older voters now that their party controls the White House and Congress, they may have difficulty persuading some of those voters who are wary of Mr. Bush's tax cuts and his proposals to overhaul Medicare and Social Security.
"Republicans have some real divisions and some real tensions in their policies," said Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster. "It was easier to appeal to seniors symbolically when they weren't in the presidency. Now, Bush faces a real challenge. He has a Congressional party that wants to reform Social Security and Medicare, and the seniors don't want him to do that."

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN NO ONE'S POCKET -- Voting in Miami on Nov. 7. Florida's older voters may have handed George W. Bush his margin of victory. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); AGING (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); MEDICARE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); STATISTICS (72%) ELECTIONS; AGED 

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (56%) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); AL GORE (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%) BERKE, RICHARD L 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



571 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: The Reforms a Tax Cut Ruins 

BYLINE:  By Gene Sperling; Gene Sperling, guest scholar at the Brookings Institution, was President Bill Clinton's national economic adviser from 1997 to 2001.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush has had notably little to say about one major loser in his budget proposal: serious Social Security reform. He has done worse than just kick the ball down the road by recommending a Social Security Commission. As his tax cut depletes the general revenue surpluses, it depletes the chances for any president or Congress in the near future to pass long-lasting reform.
 Social Security reformers from the political right, left and center should be equally concerned about what a large and expansive tax cut would do to the political viability of their ideas. 
 All reform plans confront a fundamental problem: how to fund the transition to a long-term solution without politically deadly payroll tax increases and serious benefit cuts. The reforms under serious discussion all include some version of private investment -- from privatized accounts to private investment by the Social Security Trust Fund to private savings accounts outside of Social Security -- to ease this problem.
The reformers realize that today's system of relying on current workers to pay for the benefits of current retirees -- pay-as-you-go -- will not remain viable as the baby boomers retire, because if retirement patterns stay as they are, there will be only two workers supporting every one retiree. All the plans recognize that saving more and investing for higher returns -- whether for individuals or for the Social Security Trust Fund as a whole -- could reduce or even eliminate the need for painful benefit cuts or raises in the payroll tax. But before surpluses emerged in the budget, there seemed no way to construct a reform that didn't inflict so much pain that it would be politically unworkable. This dilemma has been commonly referred to as the "transition cost problem."
The projected large surpluses have provided an answer. Reform proposals that only a few years ago would have been political suicide have blossomed. Nearly all of these ideas -- from a variety of individual account plans proposed by Representative Bill Archer, Senator Phil Gramm and Senator Judd Gregg to plans to invest the Social Security trust fund proposed by Social Security experts like Robert M. Ball, Henry Aaron and Robert Reischauer -- relied in some way on the general revenue surpluses that the Bush tax cut would deplete.
Some may suggest that even if the non-Social Security surplus is depleted, a good chunk of the $2.6 trillion Social Security surplus would be available to implement Social Security reform. But every Social Security surplus dollar is already committed to paying benefits for existing or soon-to-be retirees. Using this money to fund individual accounts for younger workers would be like a young adult's starting up his Individual Retirement Account by taking away money already committed to his parent's retirement fund.
Indeed, according to independent Social Security actuaries, if funds were taken from the Social Security surplus equal to what would be needed to start individual accounts based on 2 percent of payroll taxes, Social Security would go insolvent 14 years earlier than projected -- unless, of course, benefits were cut significantly. Dressing up such schemes to use Social Security surplus funds as "bridge loans" will not change that basic reality.
Years from now, if a different administration and Congress are trying to address Social Security with only a list of painful options, they will feel we missed a historic opportunity. They will be especially resentful if we have given as much as half of the surpluses that were available to us to the top 5 percent of earners in our society, while most of the options remaining to them for savings will fall on average, hard-working workers and retirees.
The problem with making a large tax cut our nation's top priority, rather than saving Social Security first, is that it may be far more difficult to save Social Security later. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (94%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX REFORM (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); CORPORATE TAX (74%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (73%); BABY BOOMERS (66%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) 

PERSON: PHIL GRAMM (59%); JUDD GREGG (59%) SPERLING, GENE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



572 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
Half a Loaf

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
It could have been the one-two punch that turned the world economy around. On Monday the Bank of Japan met to set monetary policy in the world's second-largest economy, amid hopes that last year's disastrous decision to raise interest rates would be decisively reversed. Yesterday the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee met to set interest rates for the world's biggest economy, amid hopes that it would act decisively to stop the slide in America's economic growth.
 Alas, both central banks pulled their punches. Not that they refused to act: the Fed cut interest rates half a percentage point, and the Bank of Japan announced what amounted to a humiliating reversal of policy. But in each case the measures taken were half-hearted -- moves in the right direction, but almost certainly too weak to do the job. And since both central banks faced problems in which market psychology is key, in both cases half a loaf may be as bad as no loaf at all. For if the measures taken in the last two days fail -- which they almost certainly will -- the fact that each central bank tried to turn the economy around but failed will damage its credibility, and make it all the harder to engineer a recovery in the future. 
 Start with Japan. Last year the Bank of Japan somehow managed to convince itself that the right cure for an economy suffering persistent deflation was to raise interest rates. Now it has grudgingly conceded that deflationary monetary policy is, you guessed it, deflationary, and has reversed course. But the bank faces a deep psychological problem. In an economy where prices are falling rather than rising, both consumers and companies are reluctant to spend, since they know that a yen tomorrow is always worth more than a yen today. And this very reluctance to spend feeds the deflation. So what the bank needs to do is convince people that deflation will soon end -- which means that it needs to act very forcefully. 
What the bank did instead, however, was to announce a limited set of measures that are extremely unlikely to turn this psychology around. An uncharitable interpretation of the plan would be that it was designed not to save the economy but to save face -- to allow the bank to say to its critics, "See, we gave you the expansionary policy you wanted, and it didn't work. So there." And it will be that much harder for any later effort to break the vicious cycle of deflationary psychology. 
The situation in the United States is not nearly so grim. We don't have a long history of deflation in consumer prices. But we do have rapidly deflating stock prices, and equally rapidly deflating consumer and business confidence. The Bank of Japan needs to break a vicious circle of self-fulfilling expectations of deflation; the Fed needs to break a vicious circle of self-fulfilling deflation of expectations. This isn't just word play; there is a real similarity in the problems facing the two institutions.
The big difference is that the Fed has a powerful conventional tool at its disposal; since U.S. interest rates remain well above zero, there is still room for substantial cuts. 
But yesterday the Fed applied that tool half-heartedly, with a rate cut that almost nobody thinks is large enough to do the trick. The official statement that went with the cut contained the code words "the Federal Reserve will need to monitor developments closely." I take this to mean that the Fed itself suspects strongly that another emergency rate cut will be needed well before the next regular meeting in May. But then why not do it now? Is the Fed, like the Bank of Japan, reluctant to take actions that would amount to an admission of past mistakes?
And while the Fed has room for substantial cuts, it does not have unlimited room -- which is what makes yesterday's half-measure so disturbing. The point is that every time the Fed cuts rates but doesn't turn things around, its credibility is eroded. Yesterday's market plunge was in effect a vote of no confidence in Alan Greenspan and his colleagues. And that very lack of confidence will now become a drag on economic recovery.
America is not Japan, and the Fed is not the Bank of Japan. But they don't seem quite as different today as they did a few months ago -- and that is bad news indeed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFLATION (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (88%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; BANK OF JAPAN 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (58%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



573 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: China Comes Calling 

 BODY:
Tomorrow's White House visit by China's top-ranking diplomat, Qian Qichen, offers President Bush an opportunity to set a constructive course with Beijing. Few international relationships are as important, and as complex, as that between the United States and China. Vital issues of economics, trade and security are intertwined, along with compelling human rights concerns. As the 21st century unfolds, Beijing's advance to the front ranks of global power assures that all of these issues will take on ever greater significance. 
 Productive relations with China do not require playing down China's faults or setting aside American interests. In the three decades since Richard Nixon began to normalize ties, no American administration has come up with a completely satisfactory China policy. But Mr. Bush's predecessors have left him much to build on, including the Clinton administration's success in preparing the way for Beijing's accession to the World Trade Organization. 
 As Chinese power grows, America has an interest in seeing Beijing increasingly integrated into the world economy and global institutions. The United States should also encourage China to act as a stabilizing political and military force in Asia and to abide by universal human rights standards. The two nations are unlikely to form the partnership that Bill Clinton prematurely envisioned, but they need not be antagonists.
Perhaps the most volatile issue in America's relationship with China is Taiwan, yet that is the first subject that Mr. Bush faces. If he yields to conservative pressure and authorizes the sale of four destroyers equipped with America's most advanced naval radar system to Taiwan, Mr. Bush is likely to condemn his China policy to a sustained period of discord with Beijing. The Aegis is the Navy's most powerful battle-management radar, and could be adapted to provide Taiwan with a limited shield against Chinese missile attack.
There is much about Taiwan that deserves American admiration, including its maturing democracy and vital market economy. China must recognize that the United States has a strong interest in seeing Taiwan develop its democratic institutions. But Washington, for its part, must understand that China's determination not to let Taiwan become an independent nation is deeply rooted. The best course for the United States, China and Taiwan is to maintain Taiwan's current status as an autonomous, but not independent, entity until such time as Beijing and Taipei peacefully agree on a mutually acceptable formula for their relations. 
American military assistance to Taiwan is a critical factor in this equation. Some American aid is warranted to help Taiwan defend itself against China's longstanding threat to use force if necessary to reunite Taiwan with the mainland. But the sale of the Aegis radar system is not justified at this point and would be needlessly provocative.
Some conservative Republicans argue that selling the Aegis and other advanced weapons systems would give Taiwan confidence to negotiate a peaceful resolution of its differences with Beijing. They also say such sales would send a useful message of military toughness to China. They overlook significant changes in Beijing's diplomatic approach to the Taiwan issue. After years of arguing that its "one China" formula meant Taiwan had to subordinate itself to the Communist mainland government, Beijing now speaks of "one China" as a kind of larger confederation, of which capitalist Taiwan and the Communist mainland could both be parts. Beijing also implies its willingness to maintain the political and military status quo so long as Taiwan does not declare independence.
Selling the Aegis would diminish, not increase, security across the Taiwan Strait. No Aegis-equipped ship could be delivered to Taiwan for eight years. But announcing a sale could cut off the promising diplomatic explorations now going on. If the military threat from China increases, it may become appropriate to revisit the sale proposal at a later date. But for now diplomacy offers the best hope for stable relations between Taiwan and the mainland and between China and the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); RADAR SYSTEMS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); CONSERVATISM (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ARMS TRADE (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (64%) EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TAIWAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; RADAR 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); QIAN QICHEN (DEPUTY PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (79%) CHINA; TAIWAN

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



574 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Sharon Find Much in Common 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
The new Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, and the new American president, George W. Bush, met today for the first time since they assumed office and focused as much on the security relationship between their two countries as they did on the preoccupation of the last several years, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
 The two leaders appeared to find a particular confluence of interests: a desire not to push the possiblity of peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians while violence continued. 
 As is commonplace when a new Israeli leader takes office, Mr. Sharon sought and received a reaffirmation that Washington's commitment to the security of Israel was "unshakable as ever," a senior administration official said. 
Much of the discussion was on defense issues, and the broader Middle East region, including Iran and Iraq.
After their meeting in the Oval Office, Mr. Bush said, "I told him that our nation will not try to force peace, that we'll facilitate peace and that we will work with those responsible for a peace."
For his part, Mr. Sharon, who was seated beside Mr. Bush in the Oval Office, said he was reassured that the president accepted the Israeli premise that there should be no negotations with the Palestinians until the violence ended.
"I understand, and I believe that they do, that one should never surrender to terror, and that the free world should struggle against terror -- local, regional and international terror," he said. 
In a briefing to reporters afterward, a senior administration official said that Mr. Bush had stressed that it was up to "all parties" to reduce the violence in the region. The president had also urged Mr. Sharon to ease the economic constrictions on the Palestinians and heard in response an "interest" to do so, the official said.
"The Prime Minister did talk of his vision to try and develop large economic projects that would increase the interdependence of the people in the region," the administration official said.
On the security relationship between Israel and the United States, the senior administration official said that Mr. Bush and Mr. Sharon found a "convergence of interest" in missile defense. The United States was "very much interested" in furthering the capacity of Israel's theater missile defense, the official said.
Israel already possesses the Arrow ground-based missile defense system, which was developed with some American technological assistance. In the future, according to military experts, if the United States had troops deployed in the Mediterranean, the two countries could work together using missile defense systems to protect each others' troops.
Mr. Sharon did not make any specific requests for new military assistance, the official said.
The Israeli ambassador in Washington, David Ivry, former director general of Israel's Defense Ministry and former commander of the Israeli Air Force, accompanied Mr. Sharon to the small lunch with Mr. Bush at the White House, where the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, was also present. In a minor echo of past differences between the first Bush administration and Mr. Sharon when he was housing minister in the early 1990's, the question of settlements arose tangentially today.
A plan to expand the Har Homa housing in the southeast section of Jerusalem by 2,400 units was submitted to government authorities in Israel today and the State Department immediately discouraged the Israelis from approving it. 
"We think it's important for all sides to be careful and to be sensitive at this particular moment," the State Department spokesman, Richard Boucher, said. "We don't think that continued construction activity like this contributes to peace or stability." 
Much of the purpose of today's session at the White House was for the two leaders to get to know each other and in particular for Mr. Sharon, who was an aggressive proponent for settlement expansion as housing minister, to overcome the image of his past.
"His objective was to be viewed as a statesman -- model 2001 -- and not as an adventurist -- model 1982," said David Makovsky, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, in a reference to Mr. Sharon's being held indirectly responsible by an Israeli inquiry board for the killings in the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps in Lebanon. 
Mr. Bush and Mr. Sharon met once before, when as a potential presidential candidate Mr. Bush visited Israel for the first time in late 1998 with several other governors. 
Their tour guide for a helicopter ride over the West Bank was Mr. Sharon, then a minister in the government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Today, Mr. Bush recalled Mr. Sharon's "marvelous sense of history" and, ever the politician, the president noted how little the two men dreamed then where they would end up.
"Mr. Prime Minister, you didn't think you were going to be the prime minister, and you probably darn sure didn't think I was going to be the president," Mr. Bush said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, the White House chief of staff, Andrew H. Card Jr.; Secretary of State Colin L. Powell; the national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice; and a National Security Council adviser, Bruce Riedel, before the meeting yesterday with Ariel Sharon, the newly elected prime minister of Israel. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (87%); ARMED FORCES (86%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TERRORISM (75%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); AIR FORCES (69%); TRENDS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PALESTINIANS; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) PERLEZ, JANE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); IRAQ (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



575 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Long Up for Sale, Insurer May Have a New Owner Soon 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
When Prudential of Britain agreed last week to buy American General, the big Texas life insurer, for $26.5 billion, the deal left the Liberty Financial Companies, a modest-size asset-management company in Boston, out in the cold.
 Both Prudential and American General had made overtures toward Liberty, which has been trying to find a buyer since last fall. But they decided to join forces instead, and Liberty, which is 70 percent owned by the Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, was left without a partner. But perhaps not for long. 
 There is plenty of interest in asset-management companies, and Liberty's bankers, Credit Suisse First Boston, quickly started an auction. The bidding closed on Friday, but bankers and analysts said it could be several weeks before the details were worked out and a buyer was announced.
Porter Morgan, a spokesman for Liberty Financial, would not discuss the transaction. But investment bankers and analysts said they understood that there had been a handful of bidders, perhaps three to five companies. Bankers said they expected the successful bidder to pay $2 billion to $2.5 billion for the company, which has a book value of $1.44 billion and $66.6 billion in assets under management.
The bidding was unusual, they said, because it attracted few -- if any -- European insurers or bankers. The Europeans are on the prowl for asset-management companies and insurers in the United States because this country is the biggest financial services market and because higher market values in Europe make American companies cheaper by comparison. For example, in more than half of the 11 deals last year for asset managers valued at more than $750 million, Europeans were the buyers, bankers said. There were only three deals of that size the year before.
While the bidders for Liberty Financial were not identified, analysts said the company would fit well with several big American insurance companies because it deals not only in mutual funds, like most asset managers, but also in annuities -- both big parts of the insurance business these days. The analysts said the American International Group and General Electric, which has a big insurance business, were two likely buyers.
One reason European buyers might have been discouraged, a banker said, was that, because of several acquisitions, Liberty Financial consists of several separate companies. "The management of this kind of setup is much more challenging," the banker said, "so a buyer for this company would probably be somebody already in the business in a significant way and probably in the United States."
The sale of the asset-management company is part of an overall reorganization by its principal owner, Liberty Mutual, the leader in workers' compensation insurance and a big player in auto and homeowners insurance.
"They were never successful in pulling together their rather disparate group of companies at Liberty Financial," said Burton J. Greenwald, a mutual fund consultant in Philadelphia. But investment bankers and analysts said that did not diminish the value of the company to big players who could bring economies of scale to a transaction. Some buyers, said Andrew S. Kligerman, an analyst at Bear, Stearns, may be interested in taking either the money management or annuities parts of the company, but not both.
Like other mutuals, which are owned by their policyholders, Liberty Mutual has been feeling constrained by its inability to issue stock, which competitors have been using as currency to expand through acquisitions.
The company has made a string of acquisitions in the last decade. It has made a big push into Latin America and Asia and in January it obtained a toehold in continental Europe with the purchase of a Spanish insurer. But most of the deals have been relatively small. And competitors have been sprinting ahead.
"We were the sixth-largest property and casualty insurer in 1990 and our sales have grown more than 30 percent over that period," said John Cusolito, a spokesman for Liberty Mutual. "Yet we have dropped to ninth place because the companies above us have grown through acquisitions."
Most big mutual companies in Liberty's predicament, like John Hancock, also in Boston, and MetLife, in New York, have gone through a process known as demutualization to become publicly traded companies.
But Liberty has chosen a hybrid structure for its new organization called a mutual holding company. The mutual holding company structure has been widely criticized as being unfair to the policyholders who nominally own it, as a kind of cooperative, and have been paying the premiums that built the company's net worth or equity.
In the demutualization of John Hancock, MetLife and other mutuals, all the equity of the company was distributed to policyholders. That was $5.2 billion in John Hancock's case and $14 billion for MetLife.
The big difference, from a policyholder's point of view, is that a mutual pays nothing to policyholders as it converts into a mutual holding company. In the restructuring, Liberty would gain the ability to issue common stock worth up to 49 percent of the company's value. By issuing stock, which the company says it does not immediately plan to do, it would also create a community of shareholders whose interests would conflict with those of the policyholders.
"As soon as Liberty has shareholders, the company must be run for the benefit of shareholders, rather than policyholders," said Jason Adkins, the founder of the Center for Insurance Research in Cambridge, Mass., which has been campaigning against the conversion.
Edmund F. Kelley, the chief executive of Liberty Mutual, declined to comment yesterday. But he said in a letter to policyholders last fall that the reorganization would give Liberty a more efficient legal structure.
But Mr. Adkins said: "They already operate as a unified company. They pool their risk and have overlapping boards of directors."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (73%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (73%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (73%) INSURANCE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: LIBERTY FINANCIAL COS INC (94%); PRUDENTIAL PLC (92%); LIBERTY MUTUAL GROUP INC (85%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBERTY FINANCIAL COMPANIES 

TICKER: PUK (NYSE) (92%); PRU (LSE) (92%); K6S (SGX) (92%); 2378 (HKSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (85%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%) SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; SIC6331 FIRE; 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



576 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: Oil Imports Climbed to a Record in January 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit widened slightly, to $33.3 billion, in January as dependence on foreign oil pushed imports of energy products to a record high, government figures showed today.
 The Commerce Department said that January's deficit was up 0.2 percent from a December imbalance of $33.2 billion. Both figures were close to the record high of $33.5 billion set last September. 
 For all of 2000, the annual deficit climbed to a record $368.9 billion, 39.2 percent higher than the previous year.
The deficit with China soared in January, rising 19.3 percent, to $7.2 billion, while the deficit with Japan narrowed slightly, to $5.9 billion, the lowest in 13 months.
Over all, the worsening deficit was led by a big jump in petroleum imports, which climbed 11 percent, to a record $8.2 billion.
President Bush, who is pushing for a broad overhaul of energy policy including increased drilling on federal lands, said today that he thought the long-term outlook for the economy remained strong despite some "short-term problems."
Mr. Bush is asking Congress for the authority to negotiate new free-trade agreements, including one covering the Western Hemisphere. This negotiating authority, which the administration has renamed from "fast track" to "trade promotion" authority, expired in 1994.
Congress refused former President Bill Clinton's request for a renewal because of objections to his efforts to include labor and environmental standards in new trade deals.
For January, exports rose 0.5 percent, to $89.7 billion. This small gain reflected increases in shipments of farm products, including animal feed, soybeans, meat and poultry, and greater exports of industrial machinery, computer chips, telecommunications equipment and computer accessories.
These gains offset declines in overseas sales of American autos and industrial supplies.
Imports rose 0.4 percent, to $122.9 billion. The increase in petroleum reflected a rise in volume. The average price for a barrel of crude oil declined in January to $23.13 a barrel, the lowest in 13 months.
Other import categories showing big increases included consumer goods, a category that takes in clothing, which rose 5.7 percent, to a record $24.5 billion, and foreign autos and auto parts, which were up 1.6 percent, to $15.4 billion.
America's deficit with Canada, its largest trading partner, rose 0.7 percent, to a record $5.8 billion in January, while the deficit with Mexico was up 6.9 percent, to $2.1 billion.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Balance of Trade"Deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. January 2001Balance: -$33.26Imports: 122.91Exports: 89.65 Graph tracks imports and exports from August 1999-January 2001. Graph tracks deficit (12-month moving average)(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); SHIPMENTS (73%); ANIMAL FOODS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); POULTRY (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); COMPUTER CHIPS (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); BILL CLINTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (92%) CHINA; JAPAN; CANADA; MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



577 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Stock Investors Fighting the Fed In Second Round

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
For the second time in two years, Wall Street is ignoring its own advice.
 One of the stock market's oldest maxims is that investors should buy stocks aggressively when the Federal Reserve is lowering short-term interest rates and be much more careful when rates are rising. The logic is simple: falling interest rates put more money in consumers' pockets and lower corporate borrowing costs, helping corporate profits. Rising rates force consumers and companies to spend more money on interest payments, hurting the economy and corporate earnings. 
 In other words, don't fight the Fed.
But in late 1999 and early 2000, that is exactly what investors did, bidding technology stocks to extraordinarily expensive levels even as the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates six times to slow the economy and the stock market.
By the end of 2000, that arrogance had proved remarkably foolish, as the Fed's rate increases succeeded in slowing economic growth and cutting corporate spending on capital equipment. Information technology companies, which some analysts had predicted would be immune to slowing economic growth, turned out to be especially hard hit by the rate jumps.
The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index has now fallen more than 63 percent from its highs a year ago, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has plunged more than 25 percent since last March.
Now, with investors $4 trillion poorer and economic growth slowing sharply, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, is cutting short-term interest rates to get the economy moving again. Yesterday, he reduced rates for the third time in three months, setting short-term rates at 5 percent. Since early January, Mr. Greenspan has lowered rates by 1.5 percentage points, the fastest he has ever cut rates.
Yet the same investors who insisted that the Fed's rate increases would never slow the economy last year are again fighting the Fed, this time by selling stocks as Mr. Greenspan cuts rates.
Stocks plunged yesterday after the Federal Reserve announced its rate cut, mainly because investors hoped Mr. Greenspan would reduce rates even more than he did. The Nasdaq skidded 4.8 percent yesterday, while the S.& P. 500 and Dow Jones industrial average each dropped 2.4 percent.
Mr. Greenspan, who could do no wrong in Wall Street's eyes for the first 13 years of his tenure, is now viewed as out of touch with the economy and the market by some investors who think he should cut rates even faster.
Christopher Wolfe, equity strategist for J. P. Morgan Chase's private bank, which manages $330 billion, said Mr. Greenspan should have cut interest rates more steeply to prop up corporate earnings, which are likely to be dismal for the first quarter.
"We needed 75 basis points," Mr. Wolfe said. (One basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point, so 75 basis points is three-quarters of a percentage point.)
William Rutherford of Rutherford Investment Management in Portland, Ore., which manages less than $100 million, complained that "Greenspan is looking at historical data." He continued: "He's not looking forward into the future, whereas investors look forward. Consumer confidence, business confidence has been shattered, and he's not taking that into account."
But despite Wall Street's cries, the economy is hardly in free fall.
The unemployment rate remains at just 4.2 percent, near its lowest levels in 30 years, and many indicators of economic growth remain strong. Consumer borrowing continues to rise, and sales of existing homes rose more than 6 percent in January.
To be sure, the information technology sector has been extremely weak since the fall. Big technology companies like Nortel Networks and Dell Computer have laid off workers and told investors to expect lower earnings for much of this year. Smaller Internet companies are shutting down in droves.
But many companies outside the technology sector appear to be weathering the storm quite nicely. Analysts expect Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest employer, to post sales of almost $220 billion and profits of almost $7 billion this year, compared with sales of about $190 billion and profits of $6 billion in 2000. Profits at Citigroup, the nation's largest financial services company, are predicted to rise better than 10 percent this year.
"The economy is not doing badly," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's. "Employment growth for the first two months looks pretty strong, consumer confidence may be bottoming out. The only thing that looks bad is the stock market."
Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, said he was concerned that high energy costs and the weak euro are hurting the United States economy, especially manufacturing, and he would like to see the Fed eventually cut another half of a point from short-term rates. But Wall Street's reaction to yesterday's rate cut puzzled him.
"I think it was fine; I never got into the hype of 0.75," Mr. Jasinowski said. "I think some of the traders have just gotten anxious for immediate gratification because the market's down so low that there's nothing else they can think of."
Rod Smyth, chief investment strategist at First Union Securities, said he expected the Dow to gain more than 20 percent over the next year and be at 12,000 by March 2002.
"The market has no patience, because people are very psychologically damaged as a result of what's going on," Mr. Smyth said. "It has no patience because people are on margin. But with 100 years of experience of interest rates, the one thing you know is they take time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Williams signaled an order for interest rate futures contracts at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange yesterday after the Fed's rate cut. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C16) Chart: "The Fed Effect"Percent changes in the markets when the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates this year. DOW INDUSTRIALSYESTERDAY: -2.4% FROM PREVIOUS DAYJAN. 31: +0.1% FROM PREVIOUS DAY; FIVE DAYS LATER: +0.5%JAN. 3: +2.8% FROM PREVIOUS DAY; FIVE DAYS LATER: -3.1% NASDAQ COMPOSITEYESTERDAY: -4.8% FROM PREVIOUS DAYJAN. 31: -2.3% FROM PREVIOUS DAY; FIVE DAYS LATER: -5.9%JAN. 3: +14.2% FROM PREVIOUS DAY; FIVE DAYS LATER: -3.5% S.& P. 500YESTERDAY: -2.4% FROM PREVIOUS DAYJAN. 31: -0.6% FROM PREVIOUS DAY; FIVE DAYS LATER: -1.8%JAN. 3: +5.0% FROM PREVIOUS DAY; FIVE DAYS LATER: -2.5%(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (69%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) ILLINOIS, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



578 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Macedonia Ultimatum To Ethnic Albanian Rebels
The government ordered ethnic Albanian rebels occupying the hills above Tetovo to surrender or withdraw within 24 hours or it would move to wipe them out. A guerrilla commander reached by Reuters said the rebels would ignore the deadline. The ultimatum came hours after Macedonian forces launched an offensive. A10

Bush and Sharon Meet
President Bush and Prime Minister Ariel Sharon met in Washington, the first such meeting since they took their offices. They focused as much on the Israel-United States security relationship as on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and expressed desire not to push the possibility of peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians while violence continued. A8

U.S. Remarks Anger Moscow
The Russian Foreign Ministry accused Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and his deputy, Paul D. Wolfowitz, of making "openly confrontational" statements by labeling Moscow an "active proliferator" of dangerous weapons technologies. A4

American's New Trial in Peru
Lori Berenson, an American accused of cooperating with leftist rebels of the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement six years ago, declared her innocence in her first appearance in an open civilian court and objected to having to listen to the proceedings from behind bars. A5

AIDS Toll Rises in South Africa
Government officials said the AIDS virus, which has ravaged the nation, was still spreading. New data showed 4.7 million people in the country were infected with H.I.V., more than in any other country on earth. A8

Accusations Against Priests
Confidential Roman Catholic Church reports written over seven years allege numerous cases of sexual abuse of nuns by priests, and a failure by church leaders to discipline clerics involved. A Vatican statement said the problem was being addressed and was confined to "a limited geographical area." Most examples cited were in Africa. A10

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A12-21

Sub's Captain Testifies About Trawler Collision
Cmdr. Scott D. Waddle testified without immunity in a naval inquiry into the Greeneville's sinking of a Japanese trawler. He offered combative and at times emotional explanations of his actions, and the three admirals conducting the inquiry responded with withering questioning of his command style and judgments. A1

More California Blackouts
Power managers ordered rolling blackouts across the state for the second straight day. A12

Preserving Maine Woodlands
The New England Forestry Foundation and the Pingrees, a family that has owned great tracts of the Maine woods for seven generations, completed a $28.1 million deal to protect three quarters of a million acres of land from development. A12

Jurors Must Be Told, Court Says
The Supreme Court, voting 7 to 2, rebuked the South Carolina Supreme Court for failing to heed a 1994 decision that jurors in death penalty cases must be told that defendants who receive life without parole will never be set free. A18

Campaign Finance Debate
The Senate, ignoring objections from Democratic leaders, voted overwhelmingly to assist candidates who face wealthy challengers who pay for their own campaigns. A16

Move to Void Abortion Rule
A bipartisan group of legislators said they would try to use a law giving Congress a way to roll back regulations less than 60 days old to overturn Bush administration restrictions on international family planning assistance to groups that counsel or "actively promote" abortions. A18

Raising Stakes on Drug Benefit
Democrats said they would seek more than twice as much money as President Bush for prescription drug benefits for Medicare recipients. A20

HUD to Insure More Loans
Housing Secretary Mel Martinez said his agency would insure more loans for the building of apartments for working families to ease a shortage of affordable housing. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Diesel Generators Pushed As Way to Avert Blackouts
The Pataki administration and power grid managers are urging businesses to run their emergency diesel generators during peak summer periods to help avoid power shortages, a proposal that infuriates environmentalists concerned about smog. A1

First Democrat in Mayoral Field
City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, 61, announced his candidacy for mayor, the first in what is expected to be a four-member Democratic field. B1

EDUCATION B7

District Takeover Sought
The New York State Board of Regents urged a state takeover of the Roosevelt school district on Long Island to raise student achievement and restore financial stability. B1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Water Rule to Be Rescinded
The E.P.A. said it would withdraw a strict rule on arsenic levels in drinking water approved in the last week of the Clinton administration, saying it was not scientifically supported. A1

Hormone Therapy Risks
Women who took estrogen for 10 years or more starting in the 1970's or early 1980's had a higher risk of dying from ovarian cancer. But hormone therapy today is different, and the effect may not now be comparable. A21

Lost Spacecraft May Be Found
The National Imagery and Mapping Agency, a federal agency that analyzes spy photos, said it might have detected the missing Mars Polar Lander on the planet's surface. A14

No to $20 Million Space Ride
NASA, citing safety concerns, insisted that Russia not send a wealthy, fare-paying tourist to the International Space Station next month. A14

E-Mail Security Flaw
Two cryptologists said there is a flaw in P.G.P., for "Pretty Good Privacy," the most widely used program for sending encrypted e-mail. A14

BUSINESS DAY C1-22

Rates Fall, as Do Stocks
The Fed cut interest rates by half a percentage point, continuing its effort to resuscitate the faltering economy but disappointing investors who had hoped for more. A1

Stocks fell sharply, with technology issues suffering big losses. The Nasdaq plunged 4.8 percent, and the Dow dropped 2.4 percent. C17

Sparring Over Online Music
Napster gave a federal court a report outlining its progress in filtering copyrighted music from its online service, but it also accused record companies of seeking to block titles that they did not own. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

ARTS E1-10

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES C23

DINING F1-10

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The Fed and the stock market; China comes calling; from second to left.
Columns: Paul Krugman.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); JURY TRIALS (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); TESTIMONY (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); POWER FAILURES (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SEX OFFENSES (74%); AIDS & HIV (73%); CAPITAL CRIMES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (70%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (66%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (63%); VIRUSES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%) MAINE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (94%); ALBANIA (94%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



579 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING 

BYLINE:  Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:
 NEW YORK

QUEENS: MASSACRE SITE TO BE MALL
The owners of a former Wendy's restaurant in Flushing where five workers were killed during a robbery last May have decided to convert the building into a minimall. Glenn Lau-Kee, a lawyer for the owners, said yesterday that the building, at 40-12 Main Street, was rented two weeks ago to a group that intends to divide it into small stalls for vendors. He said the minimall was expected to open in late spring. Mr. Lau-Kee said the owners, who bought the building last month, included a provision in the lease prohibiting cooking on the property, as has been requested by relatives of the slain workers. Dean E. Murphy (NYT)

ALBANY: CHANCELLOR RE-ELECTED
The state Board of Regents re-elected Carl T. Hayden, left, to a third three-year term as chancellor yesterday. Mr. Hayden, a member of the board since 1990, was first elected chancellor in 1995. He has since joined with the state education commissioner to institute stricter testing standards for schoolchildren. Mr. Hayden was unopposed for another term. Adelaide L. Sanford, a board member and a former New York City teacher, was designated vice chancellor. (AP)

ALBANY: WAGE BILL ADVANCES
The state's minimum wage will rise to $6.75 an hour from $5.15 if a proposal approved by the Assembly on Monday is approved by the State Senate and signed by Gov. George E. Pataki. Assemblyman Eric N. Vitaliano, a Democrat from Staten Island who supported the bill, said that if the minimum wage had kept pace with the inflation since the early 1960's, it would now be close to $7.30. Hope Reeves (NYT)

PLAINVIEW: STUDENT ARRESTED IN BOMB THREAT
A 13-year-old boy was arrested yesterday at his home here after he posted a threat on his Web site to blow up his school, the Nassau police said. The boy, a student at John F. Kennedy Middle School in Bethpage whose name was not released, was charged with menacing. He was suspended from the school last month after he posted the names and photographs of 36 students whom he threatened to assault, according to The Associated Press. The threat posted on Friday warned that everyone in school, including him, would be killed when a bomb went off on May 16, the A.P. reported. Andy Newman (NYT)

SYRACUSE: U.S. ATTORNEY TO RESIGN
United States Attorney Daniel French announced yesterday that he would resign his post in the Northern District of New York, effective at the end of May. Mr. French's announcement came just days after the Bush administration asked for his resignation. Mr. French indicated in a letter to the president that he might ask to stay on the job for a few extra weeks if several complicated cases, involving charges of corruption in the Schenectady Police Department, had not been resolved. (AP)

MANHATTAN: DISPUTE LEADS TO SHOOTING
One girl was shot in the leg and another pushed into a moving city bus yesterday afternoon during a dispute between two groups on the corner of 65th Street and Broadway, the police said. Neither of the injured girls was identified. One, 14, suffered minor injuries after being pushed into the bus and was taken to St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, where she was in stable condition last night. The girl who was shot in the leg, a 15-year-old, was in stable condition last night at Union Hospital of the Bronx, the police said. The police arrested a suspect in the shooting, a 22-year-old man, at 79th Street and Fifth Avenue. Charges were pending last night, Officer Gary Cillo said. Susan Saulny (NYT)

ALBANY: PATAKI PROPOSES PAROLE BAN
Gov. George E. Pataki renewed his proposal yesterday to end parole for nonviolent felons, a plan rejected for the last two years by the Assembly's Democratic majority. Under Mr. Pataki's plan, nonviolent felons would be required to serve at least six-sevenths of their sentences before being released. Under the sentencing now used for nonviolent felons, an inmate often becomes eligible for parole after serving a third of the maximum sentence imposed. (AP)

STATEN ISLAND: UNION GETS NEW CONTRACT
The union representing 600 Metropolitan Transportation Authority bridge and tunnel workers has reached a tentative settlement that provides for a 15.75 percent raise over the contract's 64 months. The union, the Bridge and Tunnel Officers Benevolent Association, represents workers at the Brooklyn-Battery and Queens-Midtown Tunnels and most of the city's toll bridges, including the Throgs Neck, Whitestone, Triborough and Verrazano-Narrows. The agreement, retroactive to Oct. 1, 1997, runs through Feb. 14, 2003, and provides most workers with more than $6,000 in retroactive pay. Steven Greenhouse (NYT)

MANHATTAN: MAN CHARGED IN CELLMATE'S DEATH
The police yesterday charged an emotionally disturbed man in the stomping death of his cellmate at Rikers Island. The man, Derrick Smart, 19, of East 229th Street in the Bronx, had been arrested on charges of bludgeoning his grandmother to death. He was placed in a cell with Robert Konopka, 45, of Staten Island, who was being held on charges of violating a court order to stay away from a neighbor. Mr. Konopka's death on Jan. 9 prompted a review of the city's policy of placing inmates with histories of psychiatric problems in cells with other inmates. William K. Rashbaum (NYT)

NEW JERSEY

NEWARK: NATURAL GAS CONTRACTS
The state ratepayer advocate wants to stop Public Service Electric and Gas from transferring its contracts with natural gas suppliers to an unregulated affiliate because, she said, the utility is trying to circumvent state scrutiny of its rates. The advocate, Blossom A. Peretz, has asked a court to block the transfer. John Scarlata, the utility's general manager for gas supply operations, said the company wants more flexibility in negotiating contracts. Steve Strunsky (NYT)

CONNECTICUT

NEW HAVEN: NEW LEADER AT YALE DIVINITY
The Yale Divinity School yesterday announced the appointment of Rebecca S. Chopp, an ordained Methodist minister, as dean. She will be the first woman to hold that post. A provost and executive vice president for academic affairs at Emory University in Atlanta, she will start at Yale's graduate Divinity School on July 1. She earned a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago's Divinity School and taught at the University of Chicago before moving to Emory in 1986. At Yale, she succeeds Richard Wood, who left in December to become president of the United Fund for Christian Education in Asia. Karen W. Arenson (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (87%); RESIGNATIONS (83%); ROBBERY (78%); LAWYERS (77%); JUVENILE CRIME (77%); APPROVALS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); ARRESTS (67%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (66%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); CORRUPTION (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: ROSEMARY S POOLER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



580 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: 2 Quandaries Facing Bush 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
Hardly a day goes by at the White House without President Bush warning of the two urgent national afflictions that have defined his first two months in office: a "sputtering" economy whose growth has "stalled" and an "energy crisis" that threatens to spread beyond California.
 Mr. Bush is pushing prescriptions for both: what he calls a $1.6 trillion tax cut plan that he argues goes hand-in-hand with the interest rate cuts that the Federal Reserve continued today, and a long-term energy policy due out in the next month or two. 
 But Mr. Bush is facing critics on the left and the right who say that his proposals reflect long-range policy goals that he is trying to sell by claiming they will address short-term problems, and politically, his strategy already appears vulnerable. 
A few of Mr. Bush's advisers acknowledge the inconsistency. And they say that, ever so gradually, the White House is now exploring its options in the face of an apparent disconnect between the immediate challenges the President is citing and the longer-run solutions he is offering.
The behind-the-scenes maneuvering over Mr. Bush's tax proposals are the clearest evidence of the problem. Under the proposal he sent to Congress just a few weeks ago, there was no tax cut for the current year at all, a fact that seemed to undercut the president's repeated claim that the combination of the Fed's rate cuts and his own tax plan would pull the country out of what appears to be a cyclical downturn.
Even the cut passed by the House earlier this month -- and heartily endorsed by the White House -- provides only $5.6 billion in tax relief this year. In a $10 trillion economy, that is, in the words of Robert Litan, an economist at the Brookings Institution, "something so tiny that you won't even notice it." 
On that point, Democrats and Republicans seem to agree. But each side is using that fact to bolster the case for substantial change in Mr. Bush's plan.
The Democrats -- led by the Senate minority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, who has emerged as his party's most effective voice on the issue -- wrote Mr. Bush a letter on Monday offering to put a tax cut bill on his desk by May 1. Mr. Daschle's plan would be a far more limited version of Mr. Bush's, cutting taxes for those in the bottom tax bracket by more than Mr. Bush would, but providing no relief for wealthier taxpayers.
Other Democrats have chimed in with similar proposals, noting that the taxpayers with the lowest incomes are far more likely to spend their rebates and provide an immediate stimulus for the economy. What the Democratic proposals all leave out, of course, are tax cuts for wealthier taxpayers.
"We're open to discussing all of it," Dan Bartlett, a deputy assistant to the president, said today. "We're willing to change the president's plan to get it in the hands of taxpayers quicker."
Mr. Bush himself has yet to endorse a specific proposal, and finds himself, one White House aide noted, a bit trapped between those on his left who would use a quick cut to undermine a far bigger one, and those Republicans who are determined to use the moment to pass a tax cut far larger than Mr. Bush's $1.6 trillion package.
And even while Mr. Bush contends with Senator Daschle on the left, he and his aides find themselves quietly trying to contain the enthusiasm of people like Representative Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania. Mr. Toomey marshals the same facts that Mr. Bush does -- a slowing economy accompanied by record tax collections by the Treasury (though the effects of the downturn, economists say, may not show up at the Treasury for months to come). 
But Mr. Toomey and others committed to shrinking the size of government see the downturn as an opportunity to pack far more tax reductions into the current year, including increasing the contributions that taxpayers can make to Individual Retirement Accounts and 401(k) programs at work, repealing Social Security tax increases that were passed in the first year of the Clinton administration, and cutting capital gains taxes by 25 percent.
Aren't these merely gifts to the rich? "It's hard to cut taxes for people who don't pay taxes," Mr. Toomey responded at a forum at the Heritage Foundation last week, "although Democrats are determined to find a way."
For now, Mr. Bush continues to insist that he has come up with "the right number," and that he has no plans to expand his package. 
Unfortunately for Mr. Bush, it is proving a lot harder to move barrels of oil than to shift the terms of the tax debate.
When Vice President Dick Cheney submits his long-term energy plan in a month or so, few doubt it will be full of plans for more oil drilling, from the Alaskan wilderness to the West Coast. Almost daily, the White House is using the blackouts in California to build support for what it calls a "long-term energy plan," and while Mr. Bush has been careful not to criticize his predecessor by name, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham shows no such compunctions.
In a speech at the United States Chamber of Commerce on Monday, Mr. Abraham said Mr. Clinton's energy policy amounted to taxing the use of energy and neglecting to create more supply.
"Our last recessions were all tied to energy crises," Mr. Abraham said, suggesting that if the energy shortfalls worsened, the United States' economic downturn could become deeper and more prolonged.
He argues that the United States will have to build at least 65 power plants a year, construct new pipelines and transmission lines across the country and promote the use of coal -- one of the reasons, he said, that Mr. Bush had to back off a campaign promise to regulate the emission of carbon dioxide from power plants. 
But Californians will find little in Mr. Abraham's plans to end the kind of blackouts they were experiencing as he spoke. 
"Is this an 'energy crisis?' " asked Daniel Yergin, who heads Cambridge Energy Associates and has chronicled the ebbs and flows of the energy markets. "We came perilously close to a natural gas crisis this winter, and unless there is a cool economy and a cool summer in New York, we will have similar electricity issues there."
Mr. Yergin traces the immediate problem to 1997 and 1998, when an economic downturn in Asia dampened demand and softened prices, discouraging the industry from drilling for oil or building refineries. Now those economies are back, and world oil production is at a bit more than 81 million barrels a day, well short of what it would have been if the investment levels had stayed up.
Mr. Bush was in the oil business and understands this well. "One thing is for certain," he said Monday. "There are no short-term fixes." 
He said he wanted to loosen regulatory hurdles -- often a euphemism for environmental restrictions -- and reach a deal with Mexico to allow American companies to explore for natural gas. 
He might have mentioned getting OPEC to pump more, a diplomatic failure for which he criticized the Clinton administration during the campaign, but has said little about it since OPEC became his own problem. All this, of course, takes time. 
And that is what worries Mr. Bush's aides, who know it is only a matter of time before Mr. Clinton's days are forgotten, and Mr. Bush will begin to take the heat for the immediate problems.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at a White House speech yesterday to businesswomen. From left were Laura Bush, Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman, Interior Secretary Gale Norton and Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao. (Associated Press)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENERGY AND POWER; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHORTAGES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); ELAINE CHAO (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



581 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: FED LOWERS RATES BY 0.5% AND HINTS OF FURTHER CUTS 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve cut interest rates a half percentage point today, continuing its effort to resuscitate the faltering economy but disappointing investors who hoped for more.
 In explaining its decision, the Fed said it saw "substantial risks" that the economy could remain weak for an extended period, cited strains on businesses and consumers alike and noted that the international economic outlook was worsening. 
 It also made clear that it remained open to further rate cuts before its next scheduled meeting on May 15 if signs of economic deterioration continued.
But by holding its rate reduction today to half a percentage point rather than the three-quarters of a point many on Wall Street had been seeking, the central bank seemed to signal that it would not dispense rate reductions simply as first aid for investors wounded by tumbling stock prices. Page C1. 
Investors, who in less stressful times might have seen a half-point rate cut as a powerful antidote to what ails them, took the news hard, sending financial markets down sharply. After gyrating in the minutes immediately after the Fed's announcement at 2:15 p.m., stocks tumbled, with both the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite index finishing the day well below recent lows.
The Dow closed at 9,720.76, down 238.35 points, or 2.4 percent. The Nasdaq lost 93.74 points, or 4.8 percent, to finish at 1,857.44.
The Fed's move came against a backdrop of not just the bear market, but also worries about mounting financial problems in Japan and increasing uncertainty about whether the decade-long expansion in the United States was coming to an end.
The Fed's move was intended to put downward pressure on the interest rates paid by businesses and consumers, giving the economy a boost by stimulating more borrowing and spending. 
Most big banks immediately reduced their prime lending rates for business customers to 8 percent from 8.5 percent. But mortgage rates have been falling for some time in the expectation of action by the Fed, and it is unclear whether they will decline further. 
The sharp cut reflected the belief of Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, that in a fast-changing economy he no longer has the luxury of adjusting interest rates in small quarter-point steps over a long period, the approach he took through most of this business cycle.
It was the third half-point reduction in the central bank's benchmark federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks since the beginning of the year, making this the most concentrated dose of rate reductions since Mr. Greenspan took office in 1987.
It left the federal funds rate at 5 percent, where it last stood in the summer of 1999, when the Fed was beginning to raise rates to cool off what it then judged to be an overheating economy.
The Fed also reduced its less frequently used discount rate on loans to banks from the Federal Reserve system to 4.5 percent from 5 percent.
The White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said President Bush would have no comment on the Fed's action. He said the administration was concerned about the economy at home and in Japan and reiterated the White House's assertion that the president's proposed tax cut would help the economy bounce back.
In its statement explaining its decision, the Fed cited threats to the economy from declining corporate profits, cutbacks in capital spending by companies and the likelihood that consumers would spend less because of the steep drops in stock prices. 
Still, the central bank suggested that in some ways the worst may already be past. It said in particular that companies had gone a long way toward reducing their inventories of unsold goods and unneeded supplies, a necessary step before companies increase production again.
But it noted that companies could continue to be plagued by overcapacity for some time -- especially with Japan's economy in deep trouble and other big industrial nations slowing, too.
And it suggested that it was increasingly open to the argument that the economy's difficulties could stem largely from a boom-bust cycle in capital spending and investment by companies -- a problem that can take considerable time to put right -- rather than a simple imbalance between supply and demand.
Using language that was easily decipherable code for a willingness to cut rates again soon, perhaps before its next meeting, the Fed said that under "these circumstances, when the economic situation could be evolving rapidly, the Federal Reserve will need to monitor developments closely."
The message that the Fed sees a clear path for further rate cuts was underlined by the absence of any reference to inflation, high energy prices or low unemployment -- all concerns that gave the Fed pause about easing monetary policy through the end of last year and even into this year.
"Persistent pressures on profit margins are restraining investment spending and, through declines in equity wealth, consumption," the Fed's statement said. "The associated backup in inventories has induced a rapid response in manufacturing output and, with spending having firmed a bit since last year, inventory adjustment appears to be well under way."
Still, it went on, the possibility that companies could suffer for "some time" from excess capacity and the "potential for weakness in global economic conditions suggest substantial risks that demand and production could remain soft."
Although it has been clear almost since the last policy meeting on Jan. 31 that the central bank would cut rates again today, the meeting was clearly among the most pivotal in the Fed's recent history, with the expansion at risk and the stock market in full-scale retreat.
At stake is not only the continuance of the long period of prosperity and the health of Wall Street, but Mr. Greenspan's own reputation as the master of the economy and the role of the United States as the world's most reliable engine of growth.
Some economists said Mr. Greenspan was partly responsible for the economy's condition now because he pushed rates up through last spring in what he characterized then as a pre-emptive strike against inflationary forces -- and what some analysts said at the time was a determined effort to prick a stock market bubble.
Today's decision left some analysts concerned that Mr. Greenspan had failed to appreciate how weak the economy had become. 
David Orr, chief economist at First Union, said "softness in business activity warranted a larger cut, in order to move monetary policy into a more stimulative mode." 
Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Smith Barney, said "the Fed's actions thus far do not appear to be promoting financial conditions conducive to solid growth."
The central bank's statement today, he said, "appeared to be written by a committee that lacked consensus or conviction or both."
But other economists said the Fed's choice today was the right one, given that the economy may not be nearly as weak as the plunge in stock prices would suggest. 
They said crucial sectors of the economy like consumer spending and housing had held up reasonably well, that the economy had continued to create new jobs and that industry could bounce back quickly after reducing inventories.
In any case, they said, the Fed could hardly be accused of moving timidly to address the situation now. In 1990 and 1991, the last time the economy was in recession, it took six months for the Fed to cut the federal funds rate 1.5 percentage points. It has made the same reduction this year in less than three months.
Moreover, these analysts said, Mr. Greenspan was right to draw a line at tailoring monetary policy to fit Wall Street's needs, despite the critical role that stock market wealth plays in influencing spending and consumer confidence.
"The Fed wisely did not lower the funds rate more to meet the short-run desires of financial market participants," said Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at Bank of America. "Having done so would have risked the Fed's long-term credibility."
Mr. Levy said the Fed was wrestling with problems that were always tricky for central banks to address: an adverse shock from rising energy prices, combined with a sharp decline in the financial markets, which makes it more expensive for companies to raise capital to expand their business or make it more efficient.
"They're adjusting policy in a very difficult, uncertain environment," Mr. Levy said, "and they're trying to do the right thing as far as balancing their long-run objectives versus the market's short-term needs."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 22, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A front-page chart yesterday showing the effect of recent interest rate cuts on consumers misstated the average monthly payments on a $250,000 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, using the figures for a $125,000 loan instead. Last summer, when the rate was 8.5 percent, the payment was $1,922 a month, not $961. The payment now, with a rate of 7.02 percent, is $1,667, not $833.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, before yesterday's meeting on rates. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C16) Charts: "How Consumers Fare"Interest rate cuts this year have reduced the cost of loans, but they have also reduced the amounts banks pay on savings accounts. Article, Page C1. Monthly payment on $250,000 30-year fixed-rate mortgageLast summer (RATE: 8.50%)Now$961 (7.02%)$833 Annual interest on $25,000 home equity loanLast summer (9.28%)$2,320Now (8.48%)$2,120 Annual interest paid on 1-year C.D. with $10,000 in itLast summer (5.67%)Now$567 (4.47%)$447(Source: Bankrate.com)(pg. A1) "Interest Rate Cut, Act III"For the third time this year, the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates to try to stave off an economic downturn. Graph tracks Prime rate, Discount rate, and Federal funds target rate from 1989-2001.(Source: Federal Reserve; Associated Press)(pg. C16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; DISCOUNT RATE; STOCKS AND BONDS; PRIME RATE; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



582 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns; 
The Market Is Just Sound, Not Fury, Here

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY 

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
SUFFICE it to say that unlike the stock markets, the passengers on the dollar-a-ride commuter van creeping along John F. Kennedy Boulevard in Hudson County yesterday morning were not hanging on Alan Greenspan's every word.
 "Sometimes I check how the stocks are doing, how Nasdaq's doing," said Francisco Silva, 29, referring to them as if they were celebrities. But it's really more out of curiosity than concern. Mr. Silva is not an investor. He's a butcher. And while he's read about the anxiety roiling the financial world, he's counting on a simple notion to get his family of five through an economic storm. "People never stop eating," he said. 
 The financial industry, headquartered in gleaming buildings across the Hudson in Manhattan, jumped the river during the latest boom, giving rise to a ribbon of new office space and housing along the bank in Jersey City and other Hudson County towns. But just a few blocks back from the splendid views of New York, the largely immigrant, working-class neighborhoods are much as they were before the boom, hardly affected by the big business being done nearby.
To passengers on the crowded vans that supplement public transportation on Hudson County's choked streets, the nervous market is background noise. But like last month's blizzard hoopla, the drumbeat of dire forecasts from the financial neighborhood nearby -- and the darkening clouds -- are getting difficult to ignore for those who fear real, not paper, losses.
"I don't have enough money to play with the stock market," said Maritza Rivera, who lives in West New York and was taking a van to her job as an office cleaner in Manhattan. But she knows she's not immune. "I've heard on the news that big corporations are going to have layoffs," she said. "It's a concern for everyone."
Particularly if you've seen the ax fall. Edwin Colon, a 21-year-old steamfitter's apprentice, was waiting for a van to take him home to Weehawken on Monday evening. He was holding a newspaper with the big headline "How Low Will He Go?" previewing Mr. Greenspan's interest-rate cut yesterday. He didn't comment on the headline, but the situation at his mechanical company had his attention.
"On Friday they laid off three laborers," Mr. Colon said. "Last week they laid off four fitters. I just try to work harder so the boss knows I shouldn't be laid off."
On the dashboard of one of the vans on Kennedy Boulevard yesterday, a sticker read, "The Road to Success Is Always Under Construction."
Not a bad motto for Ted Cruz. He was working in the shipping and receiving department of a toy company in Jersey City until last year. He noticed they were shipping fewer toys. Then several months ago, he said, the company started letting people go, himself included. "It started in the office and ended up in the warehouse," said Mr. Cruz, 35, who recently began working as a security guard.
While good times may be particularly good for the well-off, when things turn bad "it hurts everyone, one way or another," Mr. Cruz said.
SOME of the vans travel through more well-to-do neighborhoods, picking up commuters to New York, some of whom have a closer view of the prevailing unease. 
"I get to see a lot more stress than I care to," said Recee McCullough, a Weehawken resident who works as an office administrator for a small hedge fund in Manhattan. As for herself, "I just started investing, so I don't have a lot to lose."
Almost everyone has a personal barometer for the economy.
Lamont Farrich, the manager of a Chinese restaurant in Midtown Manhattan, said, "Business has been off 40 percent" in the past few months. The dinner and tourist trade has not been bad, he said, but the number of lunch customers has fallen to around 110 from about 160. "And when people come in," Mr. Farrich said, "they usually sit at the bar and watch the stock market."
But not everyone's barometer is falling. 
The woman sitting next to Mr. Farrich announced blithely, "My business is booming." Asked what she did for a living, her answer was a reminder that whatever the shape of the economy, some things will always pay. In her case, it was crime. "I do DNA analysis for a crime lab," she said, exiting the van, a bounce in her step. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (77%) PURDY, MATTHEW 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



583 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. TO ABANDON NEW ARSENIC LIMITS FOR WATER SUPPLY 

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20 

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency said today that it intended to withdraw a new drinking-water regulation approved by the Clinton administration, saying it did not believe that the decision was supported by the best available science.
 The rule, which would have reduced by 80 percent the permissible standard for arsenic in drinking water, had been a priority of environmental groups for more than a decade. It had been vigorously opposed by the mining industry and by some municipalities on grounds that the cost of compliance could reach into the hundreds of millions of dollars. 
 The decision, announced by Christie Whitman, the E.P.A. administrator, leaves in place, at least for now, an arsenic standard established in 1942. It is the Bush administration's most significant departure from the environmental policies of the Clinton administration. 
The withdrawal came just days before the new rules, approved in President Bill Clinton's last week in office, were to become final.
The agency's decision turns on the question of whether there is sufficient evidence to determine the level at which arsenic poses an unacceptable risk to human health when it is in drinking water. Arsenic, a naturally occurring substance, is also a known carcinogen.
A 1999 study by the National Academy of Sciences concluded that the current arsenic standard of 50 parts per billion "could easily" result in a 1-in-100 risk of cancer. The report went on to recommend that the acceptable levels be revised downward "as promptly as possible." The 10 parts per billion standard approved by the Clinton administration is identical to the one adopted several years ago by the European Union and the World Health Organization.
A former E.P.A. official who helped draft the Clinton policy used strong words in condemning today's action.
"I'm stunned," said the ex-official, Chuck Fox, who until January was the agency's assistant administrator for water. "This action will jeopardize the health of millions of Americans, and it compromises literally a decade's worth of work on behalf of developing a public health standard."
The action was the second victory in a week for the mining industry, which was a big contributor to President Bush and the Republican party and which had sued to block the Clinton rules. Last week, coal producers embraced the administration's decision not to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from power plants.
John Grasser, a spokesman for the National Mining Association, called the administration's decision to withdraw the drinking-water rule a source of significant relief. 
"The Clinton administration rushed this out in the midnight hour," Mr. Grasser said. "We felt all along that it was really a political decision unsupported by the science."
Advocates for the mining and chemical industries, along with some people representing cities that would have been affected by the new rule, argued that the new standards were arbitrary and would have exacted a huge financial cost. 
Ms. Whitman cited that argument in explaining today's decision.
"It is clear that arsenic, while naturally occurring, is something that needs to be regulated," Ms. Whitman said in a written statement today. 
But, she continued, "certainly, the standard should be less than 50 p.p.b., but the scientific indicators are unclear as to whether the standard needs to go as low as 10 p.p.b." 
Earlier, in announcing the decision in a speech to the Association of Metropolitan Water Agencies, Ms. Whitman pledged, "When we make a decision on arsenic, it will be based on sound science and solid analysis."
At least 11 million Americans, most of them in small towns and rural areas but some in cities as large as Albuquerque, rely on drinking water that contains more arsenic than the 10 parts per billion that would have been allowed under the Clinton rules, officials of the environmental agency said.
But they would not be immediately affected by the Bush administration's decision to withdraw the Clinton rules, the officials said, because the new standard would not have begun to take effect for three years.
A senior E.P.A. official said the administration hoped to come up with its own recommendation by sometime this summer.
The rules on arsenic in drinking water fall under the Safe Drinking Water Act, and Congress had set a deadline of June 2001 for the E.P.A. to come up with a new standard.
The Associated Press reported tonight that the administration would seek to suspend another environmental action taken under President Clinton. The change would set aside stricter rules on hardrock mining that required compliance with tightened environmental standards. 
On the arsenic rule, among lawmakers who had been most outspoken in urging the Bush administration to withdraw the Clinton rules was Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, whose state has high naturally occurring arsenic levels.
In a letter to Ms. Whitman earlier this year, Senator Domenici said the rules would impose "an excruciating financial burden" on his state, affecting one in four municipal water systems, imposing a price of compliance of $400 million to $500 million.
Congressional Democrats reacted bitterly today to reversal of the Clinton policy.
"This is another example of a special interest payback to industries that gave millions of dollars in campaign contributions," said Representative Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who was the author of the safe drinking water legislation. 
Arsenic is a common byproduct of mining operations, so stricter standards for its content in drinking water would translate into stricter standards for many mining sites.
The wood products industry also supports the administration's ruling because arsenic is used to pressure-treat lumber. The industry's trade association, the American Wood Preservers Institute, which had supported the mining industry in a lawsuit welcomed the news today. 
"We're very relieved and delighted about what we hear," said Mel Pine, the organization's spokesman. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); COAL MINING (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (85%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); WATER QUALITY (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); COAL INDUSTRY (71%); CARCINOGENS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); CANCER (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); CHEMICALS MFG (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); CHEMICALS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); POWER PLANTS (60%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); EVIDENCE (52%) WATER; ARSENIC; MINES AND MINING 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (82%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY; NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES; EUROPEAN UNION; WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) JEHL, DOUGLAS; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (ADMR); CLINTON, BILL; FOX, CHUCK 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2001 



584 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: American Is Guiding A Market For China 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
James Liu is an American. That is not surprising until you consider what Mr. Liu does: he helps run the Shanghai Stock Exchange. He is the exchange's executive vice president, working to reshape China's state-dominated equity markets into a capitalist tool.
 It has not been easy. Most recently, he backed proposals to open the country's hard-currency share market to local investors, only to have superiors override his advice that it be done gradually. The sudden opening sent prices rocketing more than 50 percent. 
 Now Mr. Liu is pushing Chinese companies that have listed stocks abroad to come home and help raise the quality of the stocks trading on the Shanghai exchange.
That China's secretive government would allow an American citizen to take such a significant position is evidence of the country's commitment to sweeping changes in its financial system. Dozens of high-powered, foreign-trained professionals like Mr. Liu have been recruited to help steer the country toward globally competitive standards.
In February, for example, Beijing hired a senior Hong Kong stock market regulator to join the China Securities Regulatory Commission. And it consults regularly with Western experts, from foreign stock exchange officials to members of the Federal Reserve Board. 
Mr. Liu's roots are in China, where he was born 40 years ago. He left at 21 and was soon living the American dream, working his way from University of Kansas scholarship student to Wall Street hedge fund manager and becoming rich in the 1990's.
"I worked hard in the U.S., and I was successful -- the U.S. made me a millionaire," Mr. Liu said in an interview in Shanghai. He bought a house in New Jersey and began raising his children there, he said, but he found that he wanted to be close to his aging parents and to give something back to his native land.
A 1998 dinner with China's consul general in New York led to conversations with visiting Chinese officials, and his name and word of his interest in returning to China found their way back to Beijing. The next year, he was approached about working for the stock exchange.
Mr. Liu returned to China in December 1999 and found that the exchange was bloated with low-quality state-controlled companies and was prone to manipulation by government policy makers and securities industry insiders. No one appeared to have a clear idea where the decade-old market was headed. But China was drawing closer to membership in the World Trade Organization, which would expose its financial markets to foreign competition; Mr. Liu could see China was not ready.
"With W.T.O., you want to make a plan for what you're going to do five years from now," he said. "No one seemed worried about that, so that's what I'm trying to do."
As an American in a Chinese bureaucracy, he is in a delicate position. Mr. Liu, like all foreigners, is barred from having any direct say over policy decisions. He operates instead as a sort of consultant, reporting directly to the central government. "My real position is chairman of the exchange's strategic planning commission," he said. 
Mr. Liu has some big ideas. He has pushed successfully for an end to the government's quota system for controlling who can sell shares to the public; phasing it out, probably by the end of 2001, will give private companies much greater access to capital, an important step in making China's still cumbersome state-dominated economy a more limber global competitor. 
He has also pushed, unsuccessfully so far, to allow foreign companies to list shares on China's exchanges, and for regulators to permit short sales, derivatives and other sophisticated trading tools that would increase the markets' liquidity. Without them, he said, the Shanghai exchange will not be competitive with the Hong Kong exchange, where many of China's best companies now prefer to list their shares.
The going is slow because the exchange's administration is just as bureaucratic as the rest of the economy. Its executives advance based on seniority, not achievement, and are much more focused on avoiding mistakes than on taking risks.
In that environment, Mr. Liu has had to amend his own working style. "I've realized that if you push too hard, it's no good," he said.
Remaking the economy in China is an exciting business just the same, he said, though he does not plan to stay forever. "I'm a pioneer," he said. "But I still have my house and two cars waiting for me in New Jersey."

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Liu, a hedge fund manager from New Jersey, now heads the Shanghai exchange's strategic planning. (Ritz Sino/R.S. Photos for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PARENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); BONDS (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); BANKING IN CHINA (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); AGING (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; SHANGHAI STOCK EXCHANGE 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF KANSAS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) EAST CHINA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



585 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: HOME ECONOMICS; 
Renovations Go Ahead, But Hold the Gilt

BYLINE:  By JULIE V. IOVINE 

 BODY:
NORM ABRAM, the tool-belted sage of "This Old House," has decided to hold off on building a new workshop in his own backyard in Carlyle, Mass.
 Last week, Alex Gorlin, an architect, was told by clients in Westchester to paint, not gild, the ceiling of their new vaulted bathroom. 
 In Greenwich, Conn., Jill Kent, who oversees the installation of audio-video systems, sees no drop-off in business, but the high-end buying binge has subsided. "Last year, things were so flagrant, no one even questioned an $800,000 proposal for lighting and audio," she said. "Now, people are going over these proposals carefully." 
A tumbling stock market has a way of dampening grand schemes. But an impromptu poll of two dozen contractors, designers and industry observers suggests that people are reacting to the recent slowdown in the economy by scaling back rather than canceling their renovations and additions.
Mr. Abram calls it a healthy reality check. "A lot of money has been spent on extreme renovations in recent years," he said. "That money is going to dry up. But it's not the worst thing in the world. Builders have been overwhelmed. So let them catch up to a more sane level of demand." Mr. Abram has instructed his own architect to go ahead with the design of his dream workshop. "But I'm not ready to break ground," he said. 
What will follow this first wave of the jitters? Kermit Baker, an economist at the Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University, is anticipating a substantial stall in homeowner remodeling. He said that the center's first quarterly report for 2001, to be released next month, will show that last year's runaway growth, which increased by $2.6 billion (2.8 percent) from 1999, will drop by about 50 percent.
"There's a lot of turmoil out there," Mr. Baker said, noting that a decrease in the prime interest rate -- good news for remodelers looking for loans -- is concurrent with a softening in sales of existing homes, building materials and at home centers, like Home Depot. "It may be a little less expensive to finance a project right now, but people are worried enough that they're likely to slow down."
It is not only the financing that may get easier. Custom materials and fixtures, like walnut wide-plank floors and swan-shaped faucets, will retain their status, and their prices, as luxury items, but consumers can look forward to a drop in the cost of basics like gypsum wallboard and two-by-fours. A series of factors unrelated to the economy, including supply and demand, have combined to push the cost of building materials lower. With the hasty construction of new factories for producing wallboard, the industry has more then made up for 1999's critical shortage, and last month gypsum wallboard prices reached their lowest level since July 1996.
Lumber is also cheaper than it has been in eight years, according to Random Lengths, a reporting service for the lumber industry. "Don't wait for lumber prices to get any lower," said Rick Schumacher, the executive editor of Building Material Dealer magazine. "It's definitely a buyer's market."
For many who have already taken up their sledgehammers, it's too late to stop now anyway. Renovations, the result of advance planning, are slow to respond to market upsets. Ripping out the kitchen sink is not a spontaneous act; the money has already been put aside even if it has not yet been spent. As Bolek Ryzinski, a Manhattan contractor, said: "People who have been planning something for two years, have all their approvals and their permits. They're not as likely to chicken out."
Is it too much to hope that contractors might actually start returning phone calls? Contractor availability, Mr. Baker said, could be one of the brighter byproducts of this market slowdown. "That's the theory at least," he said, "but so far we haven't heard it in the Boston area." Mr. Baker anticipates that it will take about four months for contractors to work off their backlog, especially on the East Coast, where demand was heaviest. "Then they'll start getting panicky for work," he said.
Calls to contractors in New York City, Long Island and upstate New York met a uniform response: still busy, but don't give up. "I blew off so many people for so long, it's going to take me a while to clean up the docket," said Chris Smiley in Manhattan, who was shocked by a recent call from a woman who said she had bids from three different contractors. "That's amazing," he said. "Six months ago she would have been lucky to get even one person on the phone."
Mr. Smiley declined to make a bid himself, though the woman has called him repeatedly. "It's not worth our money," said Mr. Smiley, who dreads the inevitable return to small-scale jobs, those "with the kids underfoot and the parents living in the bathroom while the rest of the place is gutted."
Dennis Wedlick, a New York architect, is advising his clients to lock contractors in to set prices for their work by negotiating a fixed bid. "I'm telling them to wait until summer to do the work and to spend more time comparison shopping and trying to get firmer prices," he said. When there is a glut of work, contractors can demand that clients pay as the project goes along, plus their standard markup of 20 percent of construction costs. "That forces you to carry the risk," Mr. Wedlick said. It also encourages contractors to pad their estimates. 
Experienced contractors, for the last two years as elusive as rare nesting bowerbirds, are worth the wait. They won't cut you any deals, Mr. Wedlick said, but they will do a better job. Contractors are "not panicking," concurred Paul Deffenbaugh, the editor in chief of Remodeling Magazine. "It's just more equitable now. A year ago, they held all the cards; now we're even."
Even the small-scale contractors reported very few canceled projects. Peter Haber, who has a crew of 12 workers, is busy with a half-dozen jobs in Manhattan and is still getting a few calls for new work in the million-dollar range. At the same time, he has noticed that some of his clients are "lowering the scope of the work," he said. Instead of oak flooring, they're asking for carpets; in place of marble and granite, they're settling for ceramic tile.
High-end electronics, from lighting systems that can be adjusted from the road to Spielberg-worthy home theaters, would seem to be expendable, but as with renovations, consumers are merely lowering their sights. Ms. Kent at Audio Video Systems said customers have turned "cautious." 
"They're getting smarter at cutting corners," she said, and are starting to nitpick about prices. One client canceled an order for a $1,700 custom-made brass keypad for controlling his lighting system, but he bought a $30,000 flat-screen, high-resolution television "because that's what he really wanted for his money," Ms. Kent said. 
Professional decorators, who tend to work at the high end of the remodeling market, haven't noticed much panic on the swatch front. Ronald Bricke, a Manhattan decorator, said that younger clients were tightening their budgets and forgoing the Biedermeier chaise for a Crate & Barrel couch. "They'll still do the work," he said, "but they're coasting at a lower level." His older clients are looking to negotiate for special deals with antiques dealers. "But so far I haven't found any yet," Mr. Bricke said.
In some quarters, the bloom is still on the rose. Mariette Himes Gomez, a Manhattan decorator and furniture designer, said she just received a call from a client who wants a private golf course and clubhouse in Bedford. Next month, Ms. Gomez is also opening a 2,500-square-foot showroom on East 74th Street to sell her furniture collection. "I asked all my clients in the financial world, 'Am I being foolish to do this right now?' " She said they all encouraged her. 
Karen Fisher, a Manhattan decorating consultant, said she had never been busier. "People are spending like there's no tomorrow," she said, citing a couple who recently imported a California decorator to Manhattan because they wanted their New York high-rise apartment transformed into an authentic Mexican hacienda. "The new status is to spend on decorating to show that you were smart enough to get the money off the table in time," she said.
From her office on the Upper East Side, Victoria Hagan, a Manhattan decorator, said she couldn't help but notice that Park Avenue was still lined bumper to bumper with delivery trucks. "I guess no one wants to commit to its being bad yet," she said. 
Regardless what lies down the road, people are still stocking up on the finer things in life, including denial.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 29, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about the impact of the economy on home remodeling projects misspelled the name of the Pennsylvania hometown of Norm Abram, the master carpenter on the television program "This Old House." It is Carlisle, not Carlyle.

GRAPHIC: Photo: WAITING -- Norm Abram, on his workshop's site. (Jared Leeds for The New York Times)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME CENTERS (77%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); PRIME RATES (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) HOME REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: IOVINE, JULIE V 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



586 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: THE INDIE SPIRIT; 
Far From Tigers and Dragons

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
THIS is the kind of thing that bores all my guests," James Schamus said, leaping from his seat.
 Were he a figure in Chinese folklore, Mr. Schamus might be described as looking like a cross between an owl and a young bear. 
 "See this," he said. He was pointing at a thermostat on the wall. "The heat is set at 50 degrees, and the temperature in this room is 69. And it's what -- about 49 degrees outside?" Snow glistened through a window. 
Mr. Schamus, 41, smiled as though he had a frog in one pocket, a spectacular marble in the other.
The house, like its owner, a film producer and screenwriter, gets things done on time and on the dime.
While Mr. Schamus was producing Ang Lee's "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," nominated for 10 Academy Awards -- including best picture, director and adapted screenplay by Mr. Schamus, Wang Hui Ling and Tsai Kuo Jung -- he was also producing another project in upstate New York. It was a new house for his family, their first.
But Mr. Schamus, who lives on the Upper West Side with his wife, Nancy Kricorian, also a writer, and their children, Nona and Djuna, had a vision beyond weekend retreat.
It was to build a modest house with standard materials that would put on display unstandard thinking about energy efficiency and comfortable design -- on a budget as strict as an independent film's.
What the architects ultimately proposed broke the house apart and sent it flying -- like a building cut in half and given a spin.
"We weren't trying to start a revolution," Mr. Schamus said last week, of his work with two New York architects, Louise Harpman and Scott Specht. "We were trying to show, very simply, with a few thoughts and a couple of changes in terms of material use, that you could create a house that anyone could build, that was fundamentally different."
Not that Mr. Schamus is new to alternative thinking. He graduated from Berkeley twice -- with both undergraduate and graduate degrees. He speaks Danish. His screenplay for Mr. Lee's "The Ice Storm," which won the prize in that category at Cannes in 1997, is an antiheroic ode to the anti-Nixonian 70's. The two men have collaborated on seven films.
"The house is like James," Mr. Lee, a frequent guest, said with affection last week by telephone. "Amiable and intellectual. Kid-friendly, friend-friendly, and politically, environmentally correct."
The small house -- 2,500 square feet that Mr. Schamus budgeted at $200 a square foot -- had a big social agenda. It would accommodate the occasional crowd of 16 or so: part commune, part summer camp.
And he was not without his stylistic preferences either. The house would look like a house in a Shaker village, with the kind of authentic simplicity Mr. Schamus admired in nearby communities like Hancock.
But he liked modernism. And it had to be cozy.
"Did you say 'cozy?' " Mr. Schamus recalled Ms. Harpman asking.
He was sitting in the loft above the living room. Tucked beneath the sloping roof, it helps warm the house in the winter by encouraging the convection of heat. In the summer, it helps cool the house by inducing a strong breeze.
It is also a quiet spot for escape, with beautiful views. The workmen building the house ate lunch there.
"I used to go away to write screenplays -- inns without telephones -- and stumbled across Columbia County," Mr. Schamus said, speaking of how he discovered what is now his part of the world. He visited his 100 acres for several years, walking the property, sitting and "sticking my finger in the air," he said, before he and Ms. Kricorian broke ground in 1998.
"He absolutely knew he wanted a Shaker house," Mr. Specht recalled. "He loved the cleanness of it." Ms. Kricorian also liked its traditional profile.
But Mr. Schamus also wanted to experiment. He sent Ms. Harpman and Mr. Specht to "Energy Crafted Home," a two-day workshop led by Marc Rosenbaum and Bill Rock Smith, leading residential energy efficiency experts. The architects learned of the seminar through the Environmental Building News(on the Web at www.buildinggreen.com).
Ms. Harpman and Mr. Specht, who designed the offices for Good Machine, Mr. Schamus's production company, and renovated a house for Mr. Lee, were the only architects present.
"You find this bifurcation between 'design' architects and 'environmental' architects, who only care about the performance of the house," said Mr. Specht, who with Ms. Harpman studied at Yale.
Mr. Schamus viewed the trip as research, financed with the hope that the knowledge would be shared. Ms. Harpman, who now teaches at Yale, has already introduced its lessons into her classes.
"You can do everything environmentally consciously," she said. "But if there are budget constraints, as there were on James's house, you have to weigh cost against any increase in performance." 
Ms. Harpman mentioned photovoltaic panels as an example. "Photovoltaics are an incredible bell-and-whistle right now," she said. "Beautiful blue panels. I mean, they're on the Conde Nast building, right?" Ms. Harpman explained that "they wouldn't have produced as much savings in energy as putting two extra inches of insulation in the walls. So, you understand instead how to align the studs in the framing to get that in."
What started as a straightforward peaked-roof house shifted direction -- literally. The butterfly shape that Ms. Harpman and Mr. Specht proposed, with two wings rising from a low waist, now leapt into the landscape, providing twin panoramas of the hilly countryside and two nicely separate quarters, for bedrooms and living.
"It became a function issue," Mr. Specht said. "The form worked better than a Shaker house." 
The gentle pitch of the two shed roofs hold snow snugly, in a blanket that insulates the house. Inside, air circulates easily because the ceilings, rising to windows, vent it at both ends rather than trapping it in the center -- producing warmth or coolness.
And the light is brilliant. 
"It's very bright," Mr. Specht said, "even on gray days, because light is coming from very high in the space and it's reflecting down from the angled roofs."
Eleven local contractors bid on the project, at $200 to $600 a square foot.
Mr. Schamus's budget loaded the dice. "It was a reality check," he said. "Money dictated the radical design."
Mr. Schamus let his architects' solutions shave costs. The house was built for $500,000. Construction took 18 months; the family moved in last May.
Ms. Harpman and Mr. Specht specified second-grade maple wood for the flooring. Bead board on the ceilings articulated the rooms without the expense or clutter of wall moldings. Built-in seating in the kitchen, where Mr. Schamus and Mr. Lee, both amateur chefs, spend much of their time when not working, economized handsomely: it cut 22 square feet out of the kitchen and 126 square feet out of the house overall -- which carved more than $25,000 out of the budget.
"It's one of my dream features," Mr. Lee said, with envy, of the banquettes. "It just feels good, like you're sitting in a diner."
The house's big ticket was a $14,000 Tulikivi -- a Finnish wood-burning stove in the living room. This massive soapstone furnace is the house's primary source of heat. There are no fireplaces; a built-in propane-burning system is rarely used.
"Oh well," Mr. Schamus said, his voice dropping, when the stove was mentioned. "Now we're getting religious. One load of wood in the morning, and one in the evening, and the heat absorbed in the soapstone will radiate for hours."
"That thing hovers around 140 degrees," he explained, standing to look down at it fondly from the loft. "Unlike cast-iron stoves, which get to be about 600 degrees. You can give this a nice big hug."
Mr. Schamus's experience as a film producer stood him in excellent stead.
"Crouching Tiger," filmed in rural Anhui Province in China and produced for $12 million, involved a crew of 500. The house required a crew of 10.
"It's the advantage of having worked on 40 films," Mr. Schamus said. "As a middle-class homeowner, you understand crews."
Mr. Schamus had sound advice for anyone designing a house.
"Start with the bathrooms," he said. "Weirdly enough, the minute your bathroom grows, your house grows. This ideology that bathrooms have to be shrines to conspicuous wealth -- how much time do these rich people spend in the bathroom?"
He also cautioned against making changes during production -- fatal in filmmaking.
"You set up the program, you lay down shared principles and visions, and you pass over in early stages, in incredible detail, budget, schedule and planning," Mr. Schamus said. "Then you step back and let people do their best work."
Speaking as a critic, Mr. Schamus gave Ms. Harpman and Mr. Specht high marks. "We just wanted a house," he said. "But design gives you more houseness than you thought."
It might be compared to reaching an audience. "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" has earned $170 million worldwide, a reception that has taken Mr. Schamus and Mr. Lee by surprise. But at the heart of its wizardry is a love story, or a fairy tale -- concepts that anyone can grasp.
Mr. Schamus said of his house, "I really didn't expect to be so pleased with just simple ideas." It was as though the lights in the theater were just coming up.

GRAPHIC: Photos: PRODUCTION VALUE -- James Schamus, Oscar nominee for "Crouching Tiger," above, in his energy-saving house, top. (Photographs by Michael Moran for The New York Times)(pg. F1); ACCOMMODATING -- The entry's innlike front desk, above; a bedroom's built-in daybed, below.; NESTED -- The loft above the living room, right, has exterior and interior windows to help circulate air. Below, an ocular window frames the landscape like an early photograph.; THE MODERN HEARTH -- Left, the living room with its Tulikivi stove. Inset, Louise Harpman and Scott Specht, the architects. (Above, inset and below right, Michael Moran for The New York Times); (Above, below and below right, Mick Hales for The New York Times)(pg. F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); WEATHER (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (74%); WRITERS (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); FILM (74%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); THERMAL SENSORS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%) HOUSING; DESIGN; CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES 

PERSON: SCHAMUS, JAMES; HAMILTON, WILLIAM L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



587 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: HOME ECONOMICS; 
Mysteriously, Real Estate Rolls On

BYLINE:  By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
AS the Nasdaq and the bonus babies take their hits, and the Fed juggles interest rates, the country's real estate market just keeps rolling along, leaving statisticians, real estate brokers, buyers and sellers scratching their heads.
 "The real estate markets are really the only sector of the economy that is standing tall -- it's healthy," said David Lereah, chief economist for the National Association of Realtors in Washington. "It's a puzzle. Usually, real estate leads the other indicators on down." 
 Robert J. Shiller, a partner in Case Shiller Weiss in Cambridge, Mass., the country's leading residential real estate analysts, agreed. "Our model is still going up," he said, alluding to his company's forecast for the price of houses. He paused. "But we don't believe it." 
If they're confused, think of the rest of us.
In major real estate markets from Manhattan to Houston and from Chicago to Palm Desert, Calif., brokers report that house hunters continue to hunt. They also continue to buy, albeit more slowly in some places. Bidding wars are generally a thing of the past. Across the country, prices have stabilized or, in a few places, "softened," trade talk for a slight dip. In Silicon Valley, not surprisingly, brokers have reported drops of 20 and 30 percent. But in nearby San Francisco, prices are still rocketing, Mr. Shiller said. In suburbs like Montclair, N.J., 20 miles west of the George Washington Bridge, prices are going up, too.
On the Gold Coast of central Chicago and the suburbs to the north, prices "never went up 50 percent, as they did in those dot-com places," said Chuck Goro, a vice president at Koenig & Strey in Wilmette, Ill. "But they are rising at the same steady pace: between 10 and 15 percent."
All this wisdom is shaky to some degree. Certainly, none of the experts are reporting the meteoric rises of 2000, rises that only Donald J. Trump could have imagined a decade ago. In Palm Desert, Ginny Becker, an owner of Becker & Becker, said she thought "offers were coming in a little lower," especially in the last month. But no one knows for certain because statistics usually take three months to ripen: the three months to close on a property and see it recorded.
So for now, a lot of experts are flying blind -- and they admit it. "The perception is that the demand is on a downward slope," said Deborah B. Beck, executive vice president of the Real Estate Board of New York, which compiles quarterly statistics on New York City's real estate market. "But I don't know whether we're on a downward slope or on a flat playing field. This is real uncertainty."
Although many pundits are holding their breath, Jonathan Miller, president of Miller Samuel, a Manhattan real estate appraisal company, is one of the few to offer hard statistics. And the statistics show a modest decline in volume -- and a modest increase (yes, increase) in prices in Manhattan over the last two months. (But again, these are closings from three months earlier.)
According to Miller Samuel, volume -- the number of sales -- has declined 11 percent in Manhattan this year, against the same period last year. But prices across the board have risen 4.2 percent on average in that same period. "So it's not doom and gloom," Mr. Miller said. "It shows a remarkable resilience. In an uncertain period, people are being more cautious, but you're not seeing any kind of decline in prices."
That is because interest rates are so low, said Mr. Lereah, the Washington economist. He predicted on Tuesday -- after the Federal Reserve Board dropped the interest rate half a point more -- that real estate prices may drop more in the next six months. But that is not a sure thing, he added, and interest rates may not go much lower. "If you find something you like now," he advised, "go for it!"
So who is buying now?
As DeCourcy E. McIntosh walked into an interview with a Brooklyn Heights co-op board a week ago, New York City's real estate market was much on his mind.
Mr. McIntosh, 58, is moving from Pittsburgh, and although prices here have stabilized in the last six months, he joked ruefully about "buying at the top of the market." 
Nevertheless, he did not want to wait and see whether prices start crashing. He wanted to make the best investment he could right now. Having budgeted less than $250,000, he was faced with a choice: a studio in Manhattan (maybe) or a one bedroom in Brooklyn Heights. 
"I felt that since I was looking for something so modest, I wasn't going to be whipsawed if and when the prices really dropped. I felt that with a one bedroom in a 1929 apartment building -- without a doorman but immaculately maintained -- my downside was not that great." He passed the board and is going through with his deal. He is paying the asking price, but the price had just been reduced 8 percent, so he decided not to haggle.
Prices, real estate brokers in New York, Connecticut and New Jersey report, are increasingly more negotiable, and in celebrity-strewn environs like the Hamptons, some overpriced properties are being slashed to market value. "I'm talking about an owner with a dream price of $5 million," said Diane Saatchi, president of Dayton-Halstead Real Estate in East Hampton, N.Y. "That price is now $2.5 million, which is the real market price. And at that price, it will sell."
In Alpine, N.J., prices have stabilized, but brokers' waiting lists for good houses are longer than they were a year ago, said Dennis McCormack, owner of Prominent Properties. "We're not seeing those crazy run-ups, but our biggest problem is a lack of inventory," he said. A 12,000-square-foot-house on two acres, "with no pool, no tennis court," he said, just sold for $7.4 million. A two-acre lot ("between you and me, it was nothing so great -- it was on a cul-de-sac but with no water and no view") just sold for $2.5 million. 
Mr. McCormack said that one of his customers, "a senior partner on Wall Street," told him he and his friends were putting their past gains into real estate. 
Denise Reardon, president of Schweppe & Company in Montclair, N.J., is even more bullish: "Prices are still going up," she said, although there may be more properties for sale. In Lakeville, Conn., John Borden reported that prices were not rising anymore but that there is still lots of action. In Rye, N.Y., Alix Prince, a vice president of Julia B. Fee Real Estate, concurred.
But Pete Callaway, of N. T. Callaway Real Estate in Princeton, N.J., told colleagues at a conference about a real calamity: three canceled deals during his drive to work last Friday.
"Why didn't he turn off the cell phone?" wondered Jack Turpin, who owns a real estate company in Far Hills, N.J. He reported stable sales volume. 
In Far Hills, Mr. Turpin said, prices have not yet sobered up. "Greed being what it is, sellers need absolute empirical evidence before bringing their prices down," he said. What would constitute empirical evidence? "Sitting on the market for months, and that hasn't been happening," he replied.
Prices may not be dropping like stones, but some house hunters think they might be soon. Tom Pappas, a Midtown lawyer, is like a spider watching a fly circling closer to his web. "I'm watching the Internet," he said. "I see prices coming down. I'm waiting for the $250,000 one bedroom. They're at $350,000 now, and I figure in about a year . . . "
John Dobkin, a consultant to philanthropies, seeks an antique house and a garden in Dutchess County. "Before, I couldn't touch one for anything near a quarter of a million dollars," he said. He called Hudson Valley agents last week and put in his order: no more than a two-hour drive from Times Square and under $250,000. "I predict I'll find something in the next six to nine months -- and I'll be ready to pounce." 
For would-be buyers ready to pounce, brokers counsel hunting for fixer-uppers, which, after a run of having been priced almost the same as the fixed-up, have lost cachet in this uncertain market.
Mr. McIntosh, who is about to close on his one-bedroom co-op on Willow Street in Brooklyn Heights, believes he can't go wrong with it, an apartment in a "dark brick, Tudory" building -- and in the right city. 
"New York is forever," he said. "There may be ups and downs, but this is a blue chip apartment. It's nothing trendy that will go out of style."
Mr. McCormack, the real estate broker in Alpine, feels the same about his part of New Jersey. "No matter what happens with the economy," he said, "Alpine will always be six miles north of the George Washington Bridge."

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Becky Heavner)(pg. F1); (Becky Heavner)(pg. F4) Chart: "Bears at the Picket Fence"Real estate prices rose as the stock market soared and the economy boomed. Stock prices have since fallen and consumer confidence has eroded, but interest rate cuts, which make buying a home more attractive, may help keep home values from declining. S.&P.500 Graph of S.&P.500 from 1998 to 2001. CONSUMER CONFIDENCE Graph of consumer confidence from 1998 to 2001. Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 - 100. REAL ESTATE VALUEMedian price, single family home Graph of the median price of a single family home for the New York City region and National average from 1998 to 2001. MORTGAGE RATES Graph of 30-year fixed mortgage rate and 1-year adjustable mortgage rate from 1998 to 2001.(Sources: National Association of Realtors; Conference Board; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (95%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); SUBURBS (64%) HOUSING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); CHICAGO BEARS (59%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (58%); DAVID LEREAH (58%) ROZHON, TRACIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



588 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Judge Deals Setback to Independent Bookstores 

BYLINE:  By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK 

 BODY:
In a setback for a group of independent bookstores, a federal court judge in Northern California dismissed their claim to damages yesterday in an antitrust suit against Barnes & Noble and the Borders Group.
 The lawsuit, scheduled for trial April 9, is the most ambitious attack yet in the independents' decade-long legal battle against the superstore chains, whose expansion has coincided with the closing of thousands of independent stores. 
 The legal battle carries high stakes for the independent booksellers' powerful trade group, the American Booksellers Association, in part because it is devoting a substantial portion of its financial resources to the trial. 
Previous lawsuits filed by the independents were aimed at publishers, accusing them of unfairly favoring the chains, and were settled out of court. The current lawsuit is the first to take on the chains directly and also the first to go to trial.
In the suit, filed in United States District Court for the Northern District of California, a group of California bookstores and the booksellers' association argue that the chains use their size to extract unfair deals from book publishers and distributors. Both publishers and the chains deny the charges.
The independents are seeking damages for profits that they might have lost in the past as a result of what they contend are the chains' unfair practices. But Judge William Orrick dismissed their claim to damages in part because he rejected the economic model the independents proposed to calculate the magnitude of the damages. Ruling out damages also means that the case will not be heard by a jury, a procedure that people involved said might have prolonged the trial and favored the independents.
The independent stores have also requested an injunction to force the chains to change their business practices. The judge left that matter standing and it will be heard when the suit goes to trial. It is also possible that the independent stores will appeal the decision to dismiss their claims to damages, possibly even before the trial.
The ruling considerably diminishes the suit's threat to the chains. For Barnes & Noble, based in New York, and Borders, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., the worst possible outcome is now some modification in their dealings with publishers and distributors, as well as the payment of the independent booksellers' legal fees.
The suit still carries risks for the American Booksellers Association, because it is spending heavily on legal fees. The association pays for most of its operating costs out of income from a $28 million endowment -- a war chest left over from the sale of its trade show and a payment to settle a previous lawsuit against a publisher. In a recent interview, Avin Domnitz, the association's chief executive, said that it had paid more than $12 million in legal fees so far.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (96%); LITIGATION (93%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); JUDGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); BOOK & PERIODICAL WHOLESALERS (78%); PUBLISHING TRADE (78%); DAMAGES (78%); LITERATURE (74%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BOOK PUBLISHING (74%); APPEALS (73%); INTERVIEWS (62%); ENDOWMENTS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOK TRADE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (83%) BARNES & NOBLE; BORDERS GROUP INC; AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSN 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (94%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (94%)

PERSON: KIRKPATRICK, DAVID D; ORRICK, WILLIAM (JUDGE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



589 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Americans' waistlines have become the victims of economic progress.

BYLINE:  By Virginia Postrel; This column appears here every Thursday. Virginia Postrel is the editor at large of Reason Magazine and the author of "The Future and Its Enemies." E-mail: vpostrel@reason.com

 BODY:
EVER alert for trends that threaten Americans' health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recently reported some bad news. Only about a quarter of the population is getting enough exercise, and that percentage barely budged from 1990 to 1998. The media may be full of beautiful, fit bodies, but neither those images nor the pleading of health experts is having much effect. Most Americans seem content to stay on the couch. The result is ever greater obesity.
 That doesn't surprise Tomas J. Philipson, an economist at the Irving B. Harris Graduate School of Public Policy Studies at the University of Chicago. Professor Philipson, who applies economic reasoning to public health questions, recently examined the reasons behind increasing obesity. "People understand better now how to control their weight than historically," he notes. "The information has grown, but we're yet getting fatter over time." Something other than ignorance must be driving the trend. 
 In a National Bureau of Economic Research working paper written with Richard A. Posner, a federal appeals court judge affiliated with the University of Chicago Law School, Professor Philipson proposes a simple theory. People haven't changed -- they've always liked to eat high-calorie food and generally disliked strenuous exertion -- but incentives have. (The paper, "The Long-Run Growth in Obesity as a Function of Technological Change," can be found at www.nber.org/papers/w7423.)
For starters, the cost of consuming calories has plummeted, thanks to productivity gains in agriculture and distribution. Food is cheaper and more abundant, encouraging people to consume more of it. But that's an old trend, and it doesn't fully account for recent weight gains.
More important in recent years is that the cost of burning those calories has surged as work has become more sedentary. "To put it simply, it used to be that you got paid to exercise," Professor Philipson says. "If you wanted an income, you engaged in manual labor. Today you pay to exercise, not so much in money, but in forgone leisure time. So if you want to spend time with your kids, you have a choice between that and going to the gym or running." To burn a lot of calories, Americans have to give up doing other valuable things. Exercise is no longer something free that comes along with making a living.
That's good news for the people in the health club business. The International Health, Racquet and Sportsclub Association reports record numbers of members and rising participation. But the nation's 31 million health club members account for just over 10 percent of the population. And only 40 percent of those go to the gym at least twice a week, a rising percentage but still a small one.
"One interpretation of why you've gotten such an explosion in leisure exercise is because work exercise has gone down," Professor Philipson says. "We didn't used to have people going out jogging or going to the gym after work because they got it at work." While leisure exercise was fairly stable in the 1990's, over the long run it has been going up -- just not fast enough to make up for those lost paid workouts.
This theory helps to explain an empirical puzzle. In the United States, poorer people tend to be fatter than rich ones. (The very poorest Americans are still thin, but weight rises rapidly from there, with the heaviest people in the low-to-middle incomes -- an inverted U-shaped curve.) Around the world, however, people in poor countries are skinnier than people in wealthy countries.
"One interpretation of that is that the same technological differences that generate higher per capita income in the rich countries also make them more sedentary," Professor Philipson says. As national income rises, so does the average weight, "because those guys are having desk jobs instead of cutting wheat."
In developed countries, thinness is a costly good that people demand more of as they get wealthier. Not surprisingly, health club members have relatively high incomes, with nearly a fifth reporting household incomes of more than $75,000.
The sharp increase in paid labor among women the last three decades may account for the rapid rise in their weights. Housework, while only moderately strenuous, is more physically demanding than sitting at a desk.
And if women still have the after-hours housework responsibilities, they have less leisure time than men for more intensive exercise, like health club workouts. Burning calories is thus particularly costly for women.
Professor Philipson is testing the work-exercise theory in empirical work with Darius Lakdawalla of the RAND Corporation, using data on how strenuous various occupations are. (These data are usually used in computing worker's compensation insurance rates.) The preliminary results suggest "huge effects of this work-related exercise" on obesity, Professor Philipson says. People in more strenuous jobs are significantly thinner than people of similar backgrounds and incomes who get less exercise at work.
In this view, Americans aren't getting fatter because they don't know what's good for them or because they've suddenly developed a taste for fatty foods. They haven't exchanged self-control for gluttony. Rather, the same economic and technological progress that has produced higher living standards has made work more sedentary. (For children, the issue is entertainment rather than work -- the difference between playing tag and playing video games.) Growing obesity is an unintended consequence of a more productive economy.
This analysis has implications for other health and technology issues. The increasingly popular "precautionary principle" warns against adopting technologies, like genetically enhanced foods, that might have negative side effects. To see the principle's problems, we need only consider the causes of obesity, a far better established health risk than anything the antigenetics campaigners have dreamed up. Would we really be better off picking cotton and cutting wheat by hand? We'd be thinner, true, but with shorter, less interesting lives -- and a whole new collection of physical ailments. Americans may not want to be overweight, but they prefer it to the alternatives.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Americans are increasingly out of shape, but the fault seems to be more in the way they work, not in the way they play. Patrons exercised at a gym in Allentown, Pa., in 1998. (Sal DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TRENDS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); OBESITY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (89%); DIETING (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); FITNESS CENTERS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); JUDGES (52%); APPEALS COURTS (52%) LABOR; WEIGHT; WOMEN; HOUSEWORK; WAGES AND SALARIES 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA; PHILIPSON, TOMAS J (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



590 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
As Stocks Dive and Economy Softens, the Dollar Is Positively Robust

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
With the economy softening, investors fleeing stocks and interest rates dropping -- all forces that normally batter the dollar -- why has it instead grown stronger?
 While few seem to be paying much attention to much but stocks these days, what is going on in the currency market is more baffling than the recent plunges in the Dow Jones industrial average, the Nasdaq composite and the Standard & Poor's 500. 
 The dollar is now near a two-year high against the Japanese yen and has stopped the euro in its tracks, at a time the euro was supposed to rally after declines over most of the preceding two years.
"The dollar should be under pressure," said Robert Sinche, head of currency strategy at Citibank, citing factors that have weakened the currency in the past.
In addition to the slowing economy and a bear market on Wall Street, the Federal Reserve's interest rate cuts are narrowing the gap between rates in this country and those in Europe and elsewhere. The American deficit in trade and services is rising, another usual drag on the dollar's value. Flows of foreign funds into United States markets are slowing. The surge in foreign acquisitions of American companies, or mergers with them, also sources of foreign investment good for the dollar, appear to be reversing. 
"This has become the time when it has been most difficult to understand the dollar," Mr. Sinche said.
The answer to this puzzle, it seems, is that other forces are in play. Despite this country's problems, for example, many investors still think that the United States is better able to deal with its economic troubles than Japan or Europe. Japan is widely expected to change prime ministers, and the European Central Bank, many analysts say, is moving too slowly to cut interest rates and spur growth there.
Many investors, according to some analysts, still see America as a safe harbor if slow or no growth in Europe and Japan turns into a global downturn.
"What central bank," asked James E. Glassman, senior United States economist at J. P. Morgan, "is going to be the most forceful in guiding us through these troubled waters?" His answer: the Fed.
Technical forces are also at work, including a sudden move by American companies to hedge against further declines in foreign currencies and a lot of speculators' taking advantage of zero-level interest rates in Japan by borrowing there, then selling the yen for dollars and earning the higher interest rates here.
In the near term, the dollar's surprising strength provides the Federal Reserve with more leeway in cutting rates. If the dollar had notably weakened, Fed policy makers might feel less flexible.
Although the dollar has not been an overriding concern for policy makers in the past, a weak dollar would complicate their job of turning the economy around. A much weaker dollar would increase inflation pressure as imports became more expensive. And if the dollar plunged, it would take higher interest rates -- not the lower rates a slumping economy needs -- to attract the foreign capital that covers the trade deficit and helps to service the debt.
But if the dollar manages to remain strong, and some forecasters say it will, it could easily be a drag on growth, making American exports less competitive in price. This is especially troubling for manufacturing, which is already in a recession.
W. R. Timken Jr., chairman of the Timken Company, which makes bearings and steel products used by other manufacturers, said his company had been hit twice by the stubbornly strong dollar. His bearings are less competitive abroad, and his rivals in Germany, Japan and Sweden can lower their prices in the United States. "The biggest impact is in the marketplace on the pricing of the products," he said. While he did not put a specific figure on the damage the strong dollar had done, he called it "substantial."
Since the beginning of February, when the stock market plunge accelerated, the dollar's value has risen by 4.6 percent against the euro and by 5.9 percent against the yen.
More surprising is that the dollar, as measured on an inflation-adjusted, trade-weighted basis against most other world currencies, is as strong at it has been since 1986 -- when it was coming down from recent peak levels.
Even with a further cut by the Fed on Tuesday of half a percentage point in short-term rates, the dollar has held its own against the euro and the yen, easing only slightly. And yesterday, the dollar rose, settling in New York at 123.46 yen and at 89.58 cents to the euro.
Analysts are split on the outlook. Some expect the stock sell-off, slow growth and lower interest rates to catch up with the dollar, sending it lower against the euro and probably other currencies. Others say that any sign of an end of the American economic downturn would give the dollar new support.
While currency analysts can cite a lot of reasons for the surprisingly strong dollar, one typical refrain -- especially when talking about the dollar and the euro -- is "I just don't know."
Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at Hoenig & Company, said, "In August, I stood up and said that the euro has to go up meaningfully from here, and in January, I said it was incontrovertible." Now, he said, "I am soberly considering giving up the forecasting of currencies."
Part of the explanation for the dollar's behavior can be found in Japan, where the financial crisis, and the political uncertainties, have weakened the yen. And the Japanese government may condone a weak yen because it would make exports more competitive abroad. The decision by the Japanese central bank on Monday to shift the focus of its monetary policy away from interest rates is not expected to change the yen's outlook for now.
Canada, the largest United States trading partner, has caught this country's economic cold. The Canadian dollar is again declining, settling yesterday at 63.45 cents.
"The euro is more of a puzzle," said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International. "The euro will strengthen against the dollar over the next two or three quarters. But to be honest, I thought it would strengthen this quarter."
David Solin, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics, said he had recently seen American companies with businesses abroad hedging against a further decline in the value of the euro. This has led to transactions in which euros are in effect sold for dollars to lock in current rates, something that would give the dollar a boost. He said many companies had been caught unprotected because the consensus forecast for this year had been for a euro rally.
Mr. Solin also thought investors might reason that the United States was the first troubled economy to ease aggressively and, therefore, could be the first out of trouble. This train of thought might push the dollar higher.
Michael Rosenberg, head of global foreign exchange research at Deutsche Bank, says that the dollar is headed lower and that the explanation of its strength is simple. "The Fed has been too tight," he said, meaning interest rates are too high and the growth of the country's monetary base is too slow.
And, he says, this has happened before. From 1990 to 1995, by this example, stocks were down, the economy was slumping and the currency was rising in value. But this was not happening in the United States; it was in Japan, and in a period when the yen surged more than 90 percent against the dollar.
So when the Fed has cut rates enough, he said -- to a point well below the current level -- "the dollar should retreat."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Thriving Currency"The dollar is now as strong as it was in 1986, just after its peak against many of the world's major currencies, according to the Federal Reserve's trade-weighted dollar index adjusted for inflation. Graph tracks the dollar since 1973.(Source: Federal Reserve)(pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MERGERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ACQUISITIONS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%) CURRENCY; CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%) JAPAN; EUROPE

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



591 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Price Index Gained 0.3% Last Month 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 21 

 BODY:
Consumer prices rose more than expected in February, led by higher costs for food, clothing and medical care, government figures showed today. 
 The Consumer Price Index rose 0.3 percent last month after a 0.6 percent gain in January, the Labor Department said. The core index, which excludes energy and food, also increased 0.3 percent, matching January's rise. 
 While the index rose more than the 0.2 percent expected by analysts, sluggish economic growth is prompting companies like DaimlerChrysler and Dell Computer to cut prices and offer discounts to attract customers.
Consumer prices "should decline in coming months as slower demand restrains inflation for the rest of 2001," said Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers. Industrial production has fallen for five consecutive months, and the price report "gives the Federal Reserve wider latitude to reduce interest rates again" to increase growth, he said. On Tuesday, the Fed reduced its target rate on overnight loans between banks for the third time this year.
The C.P.I. is the government's broadest gauge of costs for goods and services. About 55 percent of the index covers prices consumers pay for medical visits, airline fares, movie tickets and other services. Prices of food, clothing, appliances and other goods make up the rest.
Medical care costs rose 0.5 percent after rising 0.6 percent in January. Prices increased for prescription drugs, physicians' services and hospital services. Food prices, which account for about a fifth of the index, rose 0.5 percent in February after increasing 0.3 percent in January. 
The price of clothing rose 0.8 percent in February, the largest increase since last September, after falling 0.2 percent in January. Still, apparel costs were 0.6 percent lower in February than in the corresponding month a year earlier.
Prices of other goods and services were tame in February. New-vehicle prices declined 0.3 percent in February after rising 0.1 percent a month earlier. DaimlerChrysler's Chrysler unit offered discounts on a dozen models of cars, trucks and minivans to increase sales. 
The cost of personal computers fell 3.1 percent after dropping 4.1 percent in January.
Until recently, analysts said the main inflation threat was a surge in energy prices. Those increases are starting to subside. Energy costs fell 0.2 percent in February, in contrast to a 3.9 percent jump in January. Natural gas prices fell 2.4 percent after increasing a record 17.4 percent in January. Electricity prices fell 0.3 percent.
Housing costs increased 0.2 percent after a 1 percent increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (93%); FOOD PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HOSPITALS (73%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); AIR FARES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (56%) LABOR DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



592 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1888 words

HEADLINE: Scanning For Dollars By Middlemen; 
Medical Brokers Are Cited In Auto Insurance Costs

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
After another driver rear-ended Jean Fitzgerald Hillier's pickup truck near Tampa, Fla., last year, she went to a chiropractor complaining of neck and back pain, headaches, dizziness and numbness in her arms. To try to find the cause of Mrs. Hillier's discomfort, the chiropractor sent her to a medical-imaging center for diagnostic tests.
 The center performed two magnetic resonance imaging, or M.R.I., exams and two computerized axial tomography, or CAT, scans and charged a total of $1,516, according to court documents. Later, insurance investigators said, another corporation with the same ownership and address as the chiropractor's clinic billed Mrs. Hillier's insurer, the Hartford Financial Services Group, $5,700 for the scans -- a 275 percent markup. 
 The insurance company contends in a lawsuit that the clinic was engaged in a practice called brokering that lets medical middlemen reap thousands of dollars from tests, sometimes fraudulently, by exploiting a weakness in no-fault insurance programs. The clinic owner has denied allegations of wrongdoing in court filings. His lawyer declined to elaborate in an interview, except to say that "my client did nothing wrong." 
Investigators say brokers are behind a growing number of abusive and often fraudulent charges in the treatment of auto accident victims in Florida. And across the country, fraud and abuse in diagnostic imaging, one of the most expensive and common medical procedures for auto accident victims, is a major reason injury claims in several states are rising at three times the rate of medical costs in general, experts said.
In New York, claims shot up more than 30 percent last year, driven in part by this kind of diagnostic finagling and other fraud, said Robert Hartwig, the chief economist at the Insurance Information Institute, an industry trade group. In Florida, regulators say claims costs rose nearly 17 percent.
Nationwide, from New Jersey to California and Texas to Illinois, fraud and abuse related to medical treatment for auto accident victims cost insurers about $5.4 billion a year and add an average of nearly $35 to the annual cost of every car insurance policy in America, according to Dennis Jay, executive director of the Coalition Against Insurance Fraud in Washington. In New York, Mr. Hartwig estimated, fraud of this kind adds more than $70 to each policy.
Medical care in auto insurance is particularly vulnerable to fraud and abuse because it is the only area in health care that has not come under managed care controls. As a result, auto insurers routinely pay more for medical services than Medicare and private managed care companies, creating an opportunity for unscrupulous providers.
"This is the way our system has evolved," said Uwe Reinhardt, a Princeton University professor who specializes in health economics. "In auto insurance, the presumption is that the injured person should be made 100 percent whole. No one could ever deny you anything you or your doctor might conceivably want."
With no one to say no, M.R.I. brokers, who most often are independent of doctors and diagnostic centers, and others bent on exploiting the system can pile on charges for services that managed health care insurers would simply reject. They can do that because no authorization is required for treatment, and insurers are required by law to pay the "usual and customary" prices that doctors, hospitals and others ask for -- not the much lower amounts that they routinely accept from health insurers and government agencies.
In Mrs. Hillier's case, the chiropractic clinic owner negotiated a rate of $379 for each scan -- about what health insurers pay -- but he billed Hartford at the diagnostic center's list prices: $1,650 for each of the first M.R.I. and CAT scans and $1,200 for additional tests, according to a lawsuit filed by the insurer.
Medical costs are a particular problem in Florida, New York, New Jersey and other states with no-fault insurance, which requires insurers to pay their customers' claims regardless of who caused an accident -- and pay swiftly -- even though this means less scrutiny of bills.
Moreover, no-fault insurance programs allocate set amounts to cover costs for each accident. This, in effect, creates pools of money that some say have become targets for plunder -- $10,000 per person in Florida, $50,000 a person in New York and up to $250,000 in New Jersey.
Brokers say they are doing nothing wrong. They say they take a scheduling chore off the hands of doctors, help patients find conveniently located M.R.I. centers where there will be little waiting, and provide patients to M.R.I. centers whose equipment might otherwise be idle.
"What we do is buy wholesale and sell retail," said Jack Cory, a state lobbyist in Florida and spokesman for the Association of Diagnostic Imaging Companies, a group formed by some of the brokers. "It's legal, honest, moral and ethical."
Florida investigators, however, say that unscrupulous brokers who buy services at a discount and bill at the full price often hide the fact that they do not do the scans themselves, as required by law. Many brokers, investigators add, also bribe doctors to steer patients their way, though that allegation has not been made in Mrs. Hillier's case.
So far, no criminal cases have gone to court, but just last Friday state insurance investigators arrested a clinic owner in New Port Richey, Fla., in a case involving M.R.I. tests. In civil cases, Florida courts have issued conflicting rulings when brokers sued to force insurers to pay. Only Hartford has challenged brokers in court. Other insurers have begun rejecting brokers' bills but have not sued.
To support contentions that they provide medical services, brokers contract with diagnostic centers to lease blocks of time on their scanners. But insurers and operators of the centers say brokers often ignore the contracts' terms.
"They just schedule their patients whenever they want," said Michael Ross, the marketing representative for the Advanced Imaging Center in Clermont, Fla., just west of Orlando.
Legitimate diagnostic centers discount their fees for brokers because in the unregulated industry the competition for patients is fierce, and they need a certain volume of business to cover their overhead.
Robert A. Bell, a consultant in Encinitas, Calif., estimates that an M.R.I. machine costs about $900,000 a year to own and operate. The roughly 6,100 such machines in the United States averaged 2,200 exams each last year, about 9 each business day, he said. At that rate, a center could break even charging about $400 a test. But up-to-date centers can handle 16 tests in a 12-hour day, he said, so each additional test could mean significant profit.
"Brokers can make a difference," said Dr. Thomas D. Brown, a radiologist and a partner in the Advanced Imaging Center in Winter Park, Fla. If they refer two or three a day, he added, "even with a big discount, that can get you into the black."
While brokers often bill about the same price that legitimate diagnostic centers charge when they deal directly with insurers, brokers add no value, insurers and law enforcement officials say. "They are just exploiting an imperfection in the system," Dr. Reinhardt said.
M.R.I. centers are neither licensed nor regulated in Florida, so no one is sure how many there are. John Arrington, a radiologist and a partner in the University Diagnostic Institute in Tampa, said rivals were approaching "market saturation."
That encourages centers to take clients wherever they find them, and makes centers less likely to challenge orders for scans that might not be medically necessary. Brokers who pocket as much as $1,000 a test are motivated to persuade -- or pay -- doctors to order more tests than needed, investigators said.
"You will find that they are coaching people how to justify M.R.I.'s," said Malcolm K. Sparrow, a researcher at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University who specializes in health care fraud.
Just how many M.R.I. tests should be done on any patient is a judgment call. An independent medical reviewer -- providing the kind of service that has been criticized for being more concerned with costs than patient needs -- said in a report to the insurance company that one of Mrs. Hillier's two M.R.I.'s and both CAT scans were unnecessary. Philip Bomhoff Jr., the lawyer for the clinic that treated Mrs. Hillier and the corporation that billed the insurer, would not comment on the review.
Some clinic owners acknowledge pressure to do superfluous tests.
Tony Talbert, the majority owner of the Advanced Imaging Center in Clermont, said that he agreed to lease time on an M.R.I. machine to a doctor who had planned to send over 10 patients a week. The doctor wanted to pay Mr. Talbert $450 for each test -- then bill insurers for a higher price, effectively acting as his own broker. Mr. Talbert said he insisted on being paid a flat $4,500 a week, as is customary with a lease. That left the doctor to come up with 10 M.R.I. patients every week or take a cut in profits. Mr. Talbert said he ended the arrangement because he was worried that it might be inspiring unnecessary tests.
Regulators have moved to curb abuses. Among the 12 no-fault states, New York, New Jersey, Hawaii and Utah have established set payments for tests and treatment. But New York and Hawaii still pay above the lowest available prices because they use fee schedules for worker compensation, which are higher than Medicare and managed-care fees.
New York also gives accident victims six months to submit bills, making it harder to identify and prevent needless treatment, regulators and antifraud specialists say. The New York State Insurance Department wants to reduce the time to 45 days. Doctors and lawyers oppose the change, and a state court last June struck down the shorter deadline. The state is appealing.
Florida's department of insurance is asking the legislature to impose a managed-care-style fee schedule for M.R.I.'s and some other tests. But neither doctors nor lawyers want any reduction in what insurers pay.
Florida regulators also want to impose mandatory jail time for some auto insurance fraud. Most convictions now result only in probation, so prosecutors are reluctant to take on such cases. Insurance companies are discouraged from suing brokers because they say legal costs often exceed what they recoup.
New Jersey, consistently one of the most expensive places to buy auto insurance, adopted plans two years ago to try to cut insurance costs. But it is only now about to adopt a fee schedule and require accident victims to get approval for some tests and treatments.
Often, the excessive charges and other abuses are invisible to accident victims. But sometimes it eats up their coverage before they recover. Mrs. Hillier fits that category.
When she went to get a prescription filled one day, the pharmacist told her that her insurance benefits had been exhausted. She complained to Hartford, which found that the clinic had billed for a list of therapies that Mrs. Hillier said she never received. The insurance company extended her coverage as it sued the clinic where she was treated. The clinic denied the allegation in its response to the suit.
Mrs. Hillier began seeing a neurologist and last month underwent back and neck surgery.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jean Fitzgerald Hillier, left, was injured in an auto accident last year. Jane Magliocchetti, below, monitors a patient's M.R.I. brain scan at Advanced Imaging Center in Clermont, Fla. (Above left, Jim Stem for The New York Times; above, Gregg Matthews for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Tony Talbert, the majority owner of the Advanced Imaging Center in Clermont, Fla. (Gregg Matthews for The New York Times)(pg. C13) Chart: "Pushing Up the Bill"Because no-fault auto insurers must settle claims quickly, medical middlemen called brokers can easily exploit the gap between what common tests like M.R.I. and CAT scans cost and the much higher prices insurers are often required to pay. AUTOMOBILE ACCIDENT -- A broker arranges with a doctor to send the patient to a clinic where the broker has negotiated a reduced fee. The broker then bills the insurer at the usual and customary price, which is two or three times what health insurers pay for the same service. NONAUTOMOBILE ACCIDENTA doctor sends the patient to a clinic where an insurer or health maintenance organization has negotiated a reduced fee, usually less than half the list price that is the usual and customary fee. The clinic then bills the insurer or H.M.O. directly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (92%); CHIROPRACTIC (91%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (89%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING CENTERS (76%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (75%); LITIGATION (75%); INSURANCE FRAUD (75%); PERSONAL INJURY (73%); LAWYERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); MEDICARE (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; TESTS AND TESTING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY 

ORGANIZATION: ADVANCED IMAGING CENTER (CLERMONT, FLA); HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%) FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



593 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Community Leader to Head Economic Group in Bed-Stuy 

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
A community leader with deep roots in Central Brooklyn was named yesterday to head the troubled Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, a nonprofit organization that once served as a model for neighborhood revitalization throughout the country.
 Restoration, as the organization is known, has been without a president since August, when Roderick B. Mitchell stepped down after 12 years. Under Mr. Mitchell, the organization had been widely criticized for running large deficits and accused of losing its sense of purpose. 
 Mr. Mitchell's successor, Colvin W. Grannum, has spent most of his career working as a litigator and appellate lawyer. Since 1995, he has served as the founding chief executive of Bridge Street Development Corporation, the economic development affiliate of the Bridge Street African Methodist Episcopal Church in Bedford-Stuyvesant. Bridge Street has 400 units of housing in various stages of development, Mr. Grannum said.
The appointment of Mr. Grannum, 47, to the $150,000-a-year president's post was hailed by several people prominent in the field of community development, who said he had the management skills and temperament to set Restoration back on course. "He is a talented and committed individual who has the ability to make things happen," said Mark Willis, an executive vice president of J. P. Morgan Chase & Company.
Although Mr. Grannum was viewed by many people as a logical successor to Mr. Mitchell, the Restoration board underwent a painstaking selection process to arrive at its decision, said Toni Yuille Williams, who led the search committee. She said 129 names were submitted to the search firm hired by the board.
Ms. Williams said the challenges that Mr. Grannum faced in getting the Bridge Street organization off the ground had given him the experience he needed to revive Restoration, which was created in 1967. She also said the search committee was impressed that Mr. Grannum was "able not only to articulate the passion, but also to feel it."
The job represents a leap for Mr. Grannum, who has been managing 11 people and will now have a staff of 130 and responsibility for managing 900 housing units and 300,000 square feet of commercial property. But Albert C. Wiltshire, the chairman of the Restoration board, who is also a member of the Bridge Street board, said he had no doubt that Mr. Grannum would make a successful transition. "Colvin brings a lot of credibility," he said. "People will be willing to give us another chance."
Raised in what is now called the Clinton Hill section of Brooklyn, Mr. Grannum is a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and the Georgetown University Law Center. He worked for the Department of Justice in Washington, the state attorney general's office, New York Telephone Company (now known as Verizon) and the New York City Corporation Counsel.
It was the Rev. Fred A. Lucas, the former pastor of Bridge Street Church, who persuaded him to create a structure for the church's projects that would be comparable to the Abyssinian Development Corporation in Harlem. 
Mr. Grannum, who was a teenager when Restoration was formed, said he recalled hearing Franklin A. Thomas, the organization's first president, described as a revered figure in the community. "There was a tremendous amount of excitement in the creation of Restoration," he said. "That played a role when I was thinking about this job -- that there was an opportunity to help recapture some of the promise."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Colvin W. Grannum is the new president of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation. The job has been vacant since August. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); LITIGATION (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (65%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (62%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (60%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (67%); VERIZON NEW YORK INC (60%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BEDFORD-STUYVESANT RESTORATION CORP 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (67%); JPM (LSE) (67%); 8634 (TSE) (67%); VZC (LSE) (50%); VZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%)

PERSON: GRANNUM, COLVIN W; PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



594 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Looking Behind Census Numbers as Hartford Works for Resurgence 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, March 21 

 BODY:
As a landlord and licensed mortgage broker, Norma Aparicio depends on the city of Hartford for her livelihood. She owns 13 residential properties in the city and three vacant lots that she hopes to build on. But as much as Mrs. Aparicio believes in the future of Connecticut's capital city, she does not want her own family to live here, at least not now.
 In 1997, after nine years in the city, Mrs. Aparicio packed up her family's belongings in the West End and moved to West Hartford, an adjacent suburb, where she could send her son and daughter to better schools. "My daughter was in high honors in Hartford, the best in school," she said. "When we moved to West Hartford she was crying. She didn't know anything, and you don't know how she studies, six hours a day." 
 Mrs. Aparicio's decision to move offers insight into results of the 2000 census released this week, which showed a 15 percent decline in Hartford's population over the last decade, a steep drop that was reflected to a lesser degree in all of Connecticut's large cities with the exception of Stamford in Fairfield County.
The declines in Connecticut contrast with a pattern of healthy growth in many cities across the country, including New York. State and local officials, demographers and other academic experts offer numerous explanations for the unusual patterns here, including strong growth in the suburbs that parallels the exodus from the cities and a generally flat statewide population that shows no substantial influx of residents to fill the gaps.
The result is a widening economic and racial segregation in Connecticut, which is the richest state in the country and which, compared with New York and New Jersey, has relatively little diversity to begin with: three out of four of the state's residents are white. Connecticut's cities, populated mostly by blacks and Hispanics, are increasingly surrounded by fast-growing, wealthier "rim" suburbs. But whites are not the only people leaving the city. The new census data show a decline in Hartford's black population as well.
"At the heart of what is a fairly prosperous urban area, you have got this terribly impoverished city center," said David Rusk, a consultant and author on urban policy issues who has studied the greater Hartford area. "And you can say much the same for New Haven and much the same for Bridgeport."
Some of the declines may be reversed, officials suggest, through increased public and private investment to create new housing, entertainment and other attractions that might draw people back to the cities.
This type of investment is already under way in Hartford. The Capital City Redevelopment Authority is now overseeing projects worth $700 million, including the waterfront redevelopment effort known as Adriaen's Landing, which will include a new convention center, a pedestrian walkway and retail and entertainment businesses along the Connecticut River. There are also plans for 1,000 new housing units.
Matt Fleury, a spokesman for the development authority, said the goal was to reunite downtown Hartford, which is now focused on government and corporate offices, with the riverfront to attract both new residents and leisure-time visitors. "The approach is not just to plunk in nice apartments," he said. "It is to try to create a base of attractive downtown residential dwellings that is combined with an enhanced cultural and pedestrian environment."
But other factors -- including local housing and tax policies, the quality of public schools, highways and transportation and questions about regional planning -- are far more complicated, and suggest that the trends may be harder to reverse. In interviews, residents of Hartford said they expected the city's population to continue to decline until the struggling school system improved and crime was noticeably reduced.
"Most of my friends are in the suburbs," said Berneta Halstead, 44, who lives in the poor, mostly black North End. "It's better areas, better schools. I live here, in the midst of everything: the empty buildings, the trash, the noise, the drugs, the violence."
From a policy perspective, several experts said that Hartford needed the help of strong regional planning initiatives, particularly in housing. "If you really want to see these trends reversed," said Mr. Rusk, the urban policy consultant, "the state of Connecticut has to get serious about ending these patterns of racial economic segregation through very strong mixed-income housing policies in the suburbs."
Phil Tegeler, the legal director of the Connecticut Civil Liberties Union, said that Hartford's small size -- about 18 square miles -- and government structure were factors in the city's decline. "We have this municipal government structure that breaks down our metropolitan area into 20 separate small municipalities," he said. "There isn't any kind of regional government."
Without a regional governance, he said, it is hard to fight suburban sprawl. "It's losing population because of the taxes, the schools, the housing and the suburban development incentives that have encouraged sprawl and massive housing development out in the far-flung areas of the region, when in fact the region as a whole should be encouraging development of the center."
Mayor Michael P. Peters also faulted the governance system. "This city stands unto itself," he said. "It's a very poor city in a very wealthy region." One reason the population dropped, he said, was the city's razing of some of its largest public housing projects, which were centers of poverty and crime.
"I believe the quality of life has gotten better with the decline in population," Mayor Peters said. "Where does it say the more people you have the better your city is?"
Mr. Peters said the housing market in Hartford's central business district was tight, with occupancy rates of better than 98 percent. But outside the business district, most of the residential neighborhoods of Hartford are forlorn. Buildings lie vacant and boarded up, local cemeteries are desecrated with tombstones overturned, trash is strewn along sidewalks and in the streets.
But amid the despair, many do see hope. Mrs. Aparicio, the mortgage broker who moved to West Hartford, was standing this afternoon outside her latest purchase: a terribly dilapidated house on Wadsworth Street. "There is a lot of potential in Hartford," she said. "It will come back."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An electrician checks one of many run-down houses near downtown Hartford. Norma and Porfirio Aparicio own it and several others, but they moved to West Hartford so their children could go to better schools. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (90%); SUBURBS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CITIES (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); RACE & RACISM (63%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (58%) POPULATION; BLACKS; MINORITIES (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CENSUS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (97%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) CONNECTICUT; HARTFORD (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



595 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Access to AIDS Drugs 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "The Scientist's Story," by William Prusoff (Op-Ed, March 19):
 Dr. Prusoff's description of the sequence of events to bring d4T, a costly antiretroviral drug to control AIDS, from the lab to the afflicted poor patients in sub-Saharan Africa reminds us that the pharmaceutical industry is not immune to the global issues of today -- specifically, the prevalence of AIDS and other fatal diseases in third-world countries as well as in developed nations. 
 The giants of the industry must also be sensitive to the fact that just as a large percentage of Americans cannot afford the extravagant prices charged for lifesaving medications, a larger percentage of people in other parts of the world cannot even dream of taking the same medications.
Let the example of the successful efforts to bring d4T to a larger population be a precedent that we are indeed living in a global economy.

PANKAJ GUPTA, M.D.
Framingham, Mass., March 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (92%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); ANTIVIRALS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); D4T (DRUG) 

PERSON: PRUSOFF, WILLIAM; GUPTA, PANKAJ (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) AFRICA (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (72%) AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



596 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Gyrations of Little Effect On ManyAsian Stock Markets 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, March 21 

 BODY:
Stock markets in Asia largely shrugged off the Federal Reserve's cut in interest rates and the sharp fall in American stocks that followed, suggesting that the region is becoming somewhat inured to daily developments in the United States.
 Investors are distracted by Japan's deepening economic woes, which could worsen the drag from the United States, and by the weaker yen, which could put pressure on other Asian currencies. 
 "Everything is going wrong at the same time," said Richard Samuelson, a managing director at UBS Warburg in Seoul. "People are now watching the Japanese stock market as well as the U.S. stock market." 
South Korean stocks rose 0.2 percent today. Other Asian markets had modest declines. In Taiwan, which is particularly dependent on electronics exports to the United States, shares dropped 0.3 percent.
But in Tokyo, the decision by the Japanese central bank to pump money into the nation's banking system by effectively cutting interest rates to zero overshadowed everything else. The benchmark Nikkei index surged 7.5 percent, its biggest rally on a single day since November 1997.
 On Thursday, the Nikkei was down .9 percent by midafternoon, and Hong Kong stocks had lost more than 3 percent. 
Reaction in Asia to the Federal Reserve's rate cut was muted, analysts said, because the markets already reflect the American slowdown. Shares in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Singapore have fallen more than 10 percent since the beginning of 2001, as the breadth of the troubles became clear. "Unless the U.S. is really approaching a cliff, we'd argue that most of this is already priced in the markets," said Ray W. Jovanovich of Indocam Asset Management in Hong Kong.
The bigger debate in Asia now is how Japan's tribulations will affect the region. Other Asians over the years have depended on the Japanese for investment and commercial loans. The last time the Japanese yen rapidly deteriorated, in mid-1998, it worsened problems elsewhere.
But this time, some economists say, Japan's troubles will not have as severe an effect. After years of economic drift, they say, Japan exerts less influence on the region. "If Japan had collapsed five years ago, I would have been extremely worried," said Dong Tao, a regional economist at Credit Suisse First Boston here. "But today's Japan is not the Japan of five years ago."
Mr. Tao said Asian countries were more dependent on exports to the United States than to Japan. As for foreign investments and bank loans, the Japanese turned off the tap on those several years ago. "I'm a lot more worried about the electronics industry cycle in the U.S. than Japan's G.D.P.," he said.
That does not mean that Tokyo can be ignored. The central bank's rate policy decision helped drive the value of the yen down further.
This has put pressure on the South Korean won. And analysts say the currencies of Taiwan and Singapore could be next, since they compete with Japan in exporting electronics to the United States and Europe.
Eroding currencies do not pose the same threat to Asia as they did in 1997, when the collapse of the Thai baht set off financial crisis and a ruinous recession through the region. Mr. Samuelson said South Korea had reserves exceeding $90 billion with which to shore up its currency. "There's no danger of the capital crisis we had in 1997," he said.
Still, weakening currencies add to the impression of a darker outlook for Asia. In December, Credit Suisse First Boston lowered its forecast for Asian growth in 2001 to 3.8 percent from 4.4 percent, and another reduction seems likely. "We're faced with weakness in the two economies that have been the principal drivers of Asia," Mr. Jovanovich said.
As a fund manager, he is finding hope amid the ashes. He thinks that most Asian markets are close to hitting bottom. And he said that hard times in the United States could redound to Asia's benefit, if more American companies send projects offshore to cheaper Asian markets.
"Asia suffered through a difficult few years," he said, "but that suffering came from organic problems. These are not organic problems."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); BONDS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (62%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (95%); HONG KONG (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



597 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Food Worker Is Accused Of Corporate Espionage 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM 

 BODY:
The F.B.I. has arrested a catering company employee, saying he stole a confidential document in which MasterCard International outlined a previously undisclosed plan for a $1 billion alliance with the Disney Corporation, officials said yesterday.
 MasterCard would provide no details yesterday about the confidential plan, which the suspect tried to sell to Visa, MasterCard's main competitor, according to a criminal complaint filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan. But a senior law enforcement official said the plan concerned a proposed alliance with Disney. 
 Visa reported the theft to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and an undercover agent posing as a Visa executive negotiated to buy the material in a series of telephone calls and letters and arrested the employee Tuesday night, the complaint said. 
The employee, Fausto Estrada, 36, also suggested to Visa that he could secretly videotape and tape-record meetings of high-ranking MasterCard executives and suggested that Visa pay for special recording equipment for the task, the complaint said.
The case against Mr. Estrada, who worked as a waiter and bartender in the corporate dining room at MasterCard's headquarters in Purchase, N.Y., is the first brought by Manhattan federal prosecutors under the Economic Espionage Act, which was passed in 1996, officials said. About two dozen such cases have been brought around the country, but they are rare, and bringing charges under the law requires the direct approval of the attorney general, officials said.
Mr. Estrada, a native of the Dominican Republic who lives in the Bronx, stole reams of confidential material from the corporate dining room and surrounding areas, including documents, CD-ROM's, binders and other material, a law enforcement official said.
Mr. Estrada, the court papers said, first contacted Visa in February through an anonymous letter to its president and chief executive, using the code name Cagliostro, after an 18th-century Italian mystic. He later told the undercover F.B.I. agent that he had chosen the name because Cagliostro was a master of deception, the official said.
But Mr. Estrada, officials said, was apparently unable to muster the deceitful skills of his namesake. They say he included his own return address on all but one of his letters to Visa, as well as to the F.B.I. agent who posed as a Visa executive. In negotiating with the undercover agent, he also used a cellular phone belonging to a woman identified as his girlfriend, the criminal complaint said.
The complaint, signed by Larissa L. Mentzer, an F.B.I. special agent, charged Mr. Estrada with two counts each of theft of trade secrets and interstate transportation of stolen property and one count of wire fraud.
It said that he offered to sell Visa the confidential MasterCard proposal for $100,000 and also offered additional information from the years 1999 and 2000, as well as additional material for 2001. He told Visa it would have "almost direct contact with your competitor without the competitor realizing the fact," the criminal complaint said.
In a telephone conversation with the agent, Mr. Estrada also offered budget and profit-margin information that he called "very unique" and insisted that any payments be made in cash "because I do not pay taxes," the complaint said.
Mr. Estrada was arrested when he went to meet the undercover agent at a hotel with three milk crates filled with MasterCard documents and other material, one official said.
Federal authorities yesterday praised Visa for contacting the F.B.I. and said that while Mr. Estrada did not appear to be a sophisticated criminal, the case still shows the vulnerability of corporations in intellectual property rights cases.
"I think it shows you the damage that can be done in a corporate industry when internal trade secrets, intellectual property rights material, is fraudulently seized and offered to competitors," said Robert Cordier, the special agent in charge of the criminal division in the F.B.I.'s New York office. "In the hands of a less scrupulous corporation, they could have milked the situation for all it was worth."
Mr. Estrada's lawyer, Philip Weinstein, declined to comment.
Mr. Estrada had worked at MasterCard headquarters for a temporary agency, the Pyramid Agency, hired by the company's caterer, Flik International, which is based in Rye Brook, N.Y., said a Flik spokeswoman, Cheryl Webster. Ms. Webster said he had worked at MasterCard's corporate dining area on and off for about two years.
Marc Weinstein, the assistant United States attorney who is prosecuting the case, said Mr. Estrada was arraigned before Federal Magistrate Ronald L. Ellis and released on $25,000 bond. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (92%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (92%); ESPIONAGE (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); CATERING SERVICES (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (89%); PROPERTY CRIMES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%) CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; ADVERTISING; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE 

COMPANY: VISA INC (94%); MASTERCARD INC (93%); WALT DISNEY CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%) FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION; MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL INC; VISA INTERNATIONAL INC; DISNEY, WALT, CO 

TICKER: V (NYSE) (94%); MA (NYSE) (93%); DIS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (93%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (93%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (92%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (92%) SIC7323 CREDIT BUREAUS; 

PERSON: ESTRADA, FAUSTO; RASHBAUM, WILLIAM K 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



598 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Poor County Feels Domino Effect of Energy Crisis 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER 

DATELINE: CALIPATRIA, Calif., March 21 

 BODY:
Imperial County, located on the border with Mexico, has plenty of problems, but energy is not one of them.
 "We didn't think we had an energy problem," said Ann Capella, the chief executive of the county, which has its power supplied by the vast Imperial Irrigation District. "We have plenty of water and plenty of power." 
 All that changed this week. But instead of confronting rolling blackouts like those imposed elsewhere in California, the county is facing financial troubles arising from the energy crisis. The CalEnergy Operating Corporation, a renewable energy provider with geothermal plants in the county and its largest taxpayer, said it would not be able to make a $3.9 million property tax payment due April 10 because it had not been paid by Southern California Edison for five months. 
"It certainly could become a major crisis for us," Ms. Capella said.
With 10 geothermal plants creating energy by extracting superheated water near the Salton Sea, CalEnergy has helped change the fabric of the county, one of the state's poorest. With only 140,000 residents and little industry, the county has come to rely in the $10 million a year in property taxes paid by the company, which employs about 200 people. CalEnergy, a subsidiary of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company, is the largest of three renewable energy producers in the county. Together, the three account for 14 percent of the $67 million in property taxes collected in Imperial County. 
School officials estimate that 50 percent of their general budget comes from taxes paid by CalEnergy, and Superintendent James C. Hanks said the crisis had forced the district to put on hold a bond sale for necessary for improvements. 
In a meeting today with CalEnergy's chairman, David L. Sokol, Mr. Hanks said his immediate concern was for students whose parents worked at the plant. 
As fallout from deregulation and the financial troubles of Pacific Gas and Electric and Southern California Edison continue to grow, the impact on California counties that are home to small renewable energy companies, which provide about 12 percent of the state's power, is just beginning to be felt. Renewable energy companies in eight other counties say they may soon be in the same position as CalEnergy if they are not paid soon.
Unlike their larger peers, these smaller companies are not guaranteed payment by the State Department of Water Resources, which agreed earlier this year to buy electricity on behalf of the nearly bankrupt utilities. Instead, these companies have contracts to sell power directly to the utilities.
The problems confronting small alternative generators in California, which include renewable energy companies -- which rely on wind, waste and geothermal water resources -- and co-generators that make electricity as a byproduct, came to the forefront this week as rolling blackouts were instituted on Monday and Tuesday when the state could not meet electricity demands. Among several factors contributing to the problem was that some independents had gone off line because they had not been paid by Southern California Edison and PG&E. Lower temperatures and the completion of repairs at some power plants helped the state avoid blackouts today.
Gov. Gray Davis announced on Tuesday that he would ask the State Public Utilities Commission to order Southern California Edison and PG&E to begin paying for their power from the independent operators as of April 1. Past payments were not addressed. Enabling legislation would be required to support this.
"We're encouraged but we've heard it before," Mr. Sokol said. "We're very skeptical."
After five months of not being paid by Southern California Edison, Mr. Sokol said: "Time has run out. The system is freezing up."
He was in Imperial County to meet with employees, mineral rights holders and public officials, before a Superior Court hearing on Thursday in which CalEnergy will ask to be allowed to suspend sales to Southern California Edison, which the company says owes it $140 million, and sell to paying buyers.
If the company fails in court, he said, he expected renewable energy providers to try within a week to force Southern California Edison into involuntary bankruptcy.
"We are drawing a line in the sand," Mr. Sokol said.
Southern California Edison has opposed legislation that would establish a system for paying the independent energy providers, saying it is inconsistent and unworkable.
Sitting in a meeting room in Brawley, Calif., waiting for Mr. Sokol to appear, landowners with mineral rights remained patient with CalEnergy while disdainful of the state's handling of the crisis.
"If we ran a business like that, we'd be put in jail," said Kathryn Wood. "It's just never ending."

CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with an article about the effects of the energy crisis on the economy of Imperial County, Calif., gave an erroneous name in some copies for a power company that has missed payments to suppliers. It is Southern California Edison, not Southern California Energy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vincent J. Signorotti, land manager for CalEnergy, which has not been paid for five months for the energy it supplies to Southern California Edison. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (90%); COUNTIES (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (89%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); DEREGULATION (78%); IRRIGATION (77%); WATER RIGHTS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); LAKES (67%); SECURITIES TRADING (63%); WATER QUALITY (60%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL); SHORTAGES 

COMPANY: MIDAMERICAN ENERGY HOLDINGS CO (92%); PG&E CORP (58%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CALENERGY CO; SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO 

TICKER: PCG (SWX) (58%); PCG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%)

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) IMPERIAL COUNTY (CALIF); CALIFORNIA 

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



599 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1434 words

HEADLINE: Boeing, Jolting Seattle, Will Move Headquarters 

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK with LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, March 21 

 BODY:
After decades as a mainstay of the Seattle economy and a virtual emblem of the Pacific Northwest, the Boeing Company stunned its hometown today with an abrupt announcement that it would move its corporate headquarters out of the region.
 The company said it was evaluating the Chicago, Denver and Dallas areas as possible sites for a new base. The company's chairman and chief executive, Philip M. Condit, said he envisioned a "leaner corporate center" that would give Boeing greater "flexibility to move capital and talent to the opportunities that maximize shareholder value." 
 Boeing said it had no plans to move its giant commercial aircraft unit, which manufactures ubiquitous passenger jets like the Boeing 737, 747 and 767, out of the Seattle area. And thus it is possible, as the company insisted today, that the impact on the Seattle economy will be modest, since about 500 jobs are scheduled to be moved to the new headquarters. 
Nonetheless, the announcement by Mr. Condit in Washington, D.C., was a sharp blow to Seattle's psyche and prestige, as stunning, say, as General Motors pulling out of Detroit or Coca-Cola abandoning Atlanta.
While the 500 headquarters jobs that would be moved were primarily nonunion, many people here expressed fears that it was a precursor to a larger scaling back by Boeing. The company provides jobs for about 80,000 people in the Puget Sound region and is by far the area's largest private employer. 
Seattle's mayor, Paul Schell, said he was "totally blindsided." 
The state's governor, Gary Locke, describing himself as "surprised and deeply sorry," said loss of the headquarters "leaves a void in our economic and cultural life." 
Both pleaded with Boeing to reconsider. 
With the region recovering from a literal jolt last month, Dick Conway, a local economist, took a stab at gallows humor, saying, "Well, it has made us forget the earthquake all of a sudden." 
A local radio station, KIRO-AM, linking Boeing's possible relocation to Dallas with the move of the baseball superstar Alex Rodriguez from the Seattle Mariners to the Texas Rangers, played the country song, "All My Ex's Live in Texas." 
But the dominant emotions were shock and anger. Union leaders were furious at both the news itself and the five minutes' advance notice that Boeing gave them and the area's elected officials before the announcement. 
"This decision is a blow to our entire community," said Mark Blondin, president of the local chapter of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, representing about 25,000 Boeing workers. "Bill Boeing must be turning over in his grave to learn his company is being ripped from its roots and moved cross country." 
Mr. Blondin was referring to William Boeing, who bought a shipyard on the Duwamish River in 1910 and later turned it into an airplane factory. 
He founded the company in 1916 and, taking advantage of the region's once-cheap and abundant hydroelectric power, turned it into the world's pre-eminent manufacturer of planes. Boeing planes helped the Allies win World War II and, in peacetime, helped define jet passenger travel. 
In recent years, however, the company has seen its once-dominant share of the commercial airplane market challenged, especially in its global market competition with Airbus Industrie, the European consortium. 
Perhaps even more importantly, though, the company has been trying to diversify its operations. 
Boeing has transformed itself in Mr. Condit's tenure, buying the space division of Rockwell International for $3.2 billion in 1996 and its longtime rival, the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, for $14 billion the following year. 
The deals created a diversified aerospace giant that had $51 billion in sales last year and operated in 145 countries. Boeing still depends on the manufacture of commercial jets for 60 percent of its revenue, but it now also makes and launches satellites and builds fighter jets and missiles. 
Mr. Condit has worked to convince Wall Street that he is focused on creating value for shareholders. Boeing stock rallied last year, becoming one of the markets top performers. But recently it has fallen back. Boeing shares fell $1.15 today, to $53.85. 
Mr. Condit, in a telephone interview yesterday while flying back to Seattle from Washington, said he had concluded that the headquarters had to be physically separate from any of Boeing's operating divisions so that it could make objective decisions about where to deploy the company's resources in the future. "If you are directly with any one of your business units, it changes the dynamic of the way you view that business," he said. 
Asked how he felt about leaving Seattle, where he has lived for most of the last 36 years, Mr. Condit, 59, said: "Given a personal choice, that is not what I would want to do. I love Seattle. But I am looking for what is best for the company." 
Mr. Condit said he was inspired to make the move by talking to other chief executives. He said he first raised the idea with Boeing's corporate strategy council in September and began broaching the idea with the company's board late last year.
Many Seattle residents and some industry analysts scoffed at Mr. Condit's professed rationale for moving the headquarters. And several management experts expressed surprise. 
"Most of the time when corporations move, they do it to get closer to their work force, or for tax reasons," said Jim O'Toole, a research professor at the Center for Effective Organizations at the University of Southern California. "I have never heard of a company changing its location to change its culture or its perspective. This could be a first."
Professor O'Toole added that many corporate relocations ended up being fruitless.
"Geographical solutions to problems seldom work," he said "Changing location doesn't change your mindset, it doesn't change your values, it doesn't change your business. You move that with you." 
Other management experts said that Seattle, which is also the home of Starbucks, Microsoft and Amazon.com, has become one of the country's most desirable locations for corporations, in large part because jet travel has reduced its isolation. 
"Seattle is a rich, culturally diverse place," said Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, president of the Chief Executive Leadership Institute in Atlanta. "It's on the Pacific Rim. It's a pretty hot place to be." 
Mr. Condit suggested that top company officials could function more effectively in the global marketplace out of one of the three cities under consideration, Chicago, Denver and Dallas, which are all major international air hubs. But here in high-tech Seattle, such a rationale struck some people as old-fashioned. 
"This whole geographical location argument of his is a bit strange," said Glen Pascall, a senior fellow at the Institute for Public Policy at the University of Washington. "In today's electronically networked economy, being at any major center of economic activity gives you all the connectivity that you should need." 
Some people suggested that one of the reasons behind the move was that Boeing would become more decentralized and increasingly move toward "outsourcing" some of its work -- that is, contracting it to other companies instead of using its own, heavily unionized work force. 
And organized labor, which has had its share of tense contract negotiations and bitter strikes over the years, certainly had the possibility of contracting work to other companies on its mind today. 
"Boeing needs to know the machinists union is here for the long haul," said Mr. Blondin, the local union leader. "We plan to continue building the world's best airplanes here in Puget Sound. 
In any event, the announcement was big news here: "the Boeing Bombshell," as one television station described it. And many Boeing workers, as well as people here with no official connection to the company, seemed shell-shocked. 
"I have no idea what's going to happen," said Rebecca Cranz, who works in the systems support division and has been in Seattle for 20 years, 10 of those at Boeing. "It would have been nice if I had found out a little earlier." 
Eric Lucas, a freelance editor and writer here who does not work for Boeing, echoed a common sentiment when he said his first reaction to the news was that it was an early April Fool's joke. 
Mr. Condit said he did not notify Boeing's employees and political leaders in Seattle and Washington until a few minutes before yesterday's announcement because he wanted "to deal with everyone on an equal basis.
"Clearly they are disappointed," the Boeing chairman said. "I would expect them to be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rebecca Cranz works in company support at Boeing corporate headquarters in Seattle, which is moving out of the region after eight decades. (Photographs by Larry Davis for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY RELOCATIONS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); BASEBALL (85%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (74%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (73%); MACHINE TOOLS (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); GOVERNORS (64%); COUNTRY MUSIC (60%) AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES AND SCIENCES; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; LABOR 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (95%); COCA-COLA CO (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (95%); BAB (BRU) (95%); BA (NYSE) (95%); KO (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (95%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%) SIC3721 AIRCRAFT; SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: GARY LOCKE (58%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (56%) VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; CONDIT, PHILIP M 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%); DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); DENVER, CO, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) CHICAGO (ILL); DENVER (COLO); DALLAS (TEX); SEATTLE (WASH)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 



600 of 868 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Boeing's Corporate Base To Move Out of Seattle
After eight decades as a mainstay of the local economy and a virtual emblem of Seattle, Boeing stunned its hometown with an abrupt announcement that it would move its corporate headquarters out of the region.
 The company said it was evaluating the Chicago, Denver and Dallas areas as possible sites for a new base. Boeing said it had no plans to move its giant commercial aircraft unit, so it is possible, as the company insisted, that the specific effect on the Seattle economy would be relatively slight. Page A16. 

Layoffs Are Expected at Procter
Procter & Gamble has scheduled a conference call with investors today and is expected to announce layoffs, reflecting slowing sales and a need to reduce costs, and thus prices. C14.

New Chief for AT&T Consumer Unit
Trying yet again to find a leader for its troubled consumer-services operation, AT&T announced that Betsy J. Bernard, most recently a top executive at Qwest Communications International, would become the unit's chief executive next month. Ms. Bernard represents the sixth generation of leadership at AT&T's consumer unit in five years. C4.

Disappointment Fuels Stock Decline
Stocks continued to fall after the Federal Reserve's decision to cut interest rates less than investors had hoped. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 233.76 points, or 2.4 percent, to 9,487.00. The Nasdaq composite index declined 27.21 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,830.23, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index decreased 20.48 points, or 1.8 percent, to 1,122.14. C8.

Stock markets in Asia largely shrugged off the Fed's cut in interest rates and the sharp fall in American stocks that followed. C8.

Man Accused of Stealing Documents
The F.B.I. has arrested a catering company employee, saying he stole a confidential document in which MasterCard outlined a previously undisclosed plan for a $1 billion alliance with Walt Disney and tried to sell it to Visa International, MasterCard's chief rival. C6.

Judge Rejects Damages in Book Suit
In a setback for a group of independent bookstores, a federal judge in California dismissed their claim for damages in an antitrust suit against Barnes & Noble and Borders. C7.

Profit Falls at Wall Street Firms
Quarterly earnings fell at three of Wall Street's top firms -- Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns -- as a slumping stock market reduced initial public offerings and merger activity -- two major drivers of investment banking revenue. Shares of Morgan Stanley fell $1.86, to $54.64; Lehman dropped $2, to $63.90; and Bear Stearns declined $1.25, to $45.50. C2.

3Com Announces Plan to Cut Costs
Reporting narrower quarterly losses than expected, 3Com announced a cost-cutting plan that seeks to save $1 billion a year but that also means the demise of the company's short-lived kitchen-countertop Internet device. C4.

Consumer Prices Increase 0.3%
Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent in February, more than expected, led by higher costs for food, clothing and medical care. C14.

The Economics of Gaining Weight
Americans are gaining more weight than ever, a trend that can be explained in part by economics. For starters, the cost of consuming calories has plummeted, thanks to productivity gains in agriculture and distribution. But more important, the cost of burning calories has surged as work has become more sedentary. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,487.00 down 233.76Nasdaq composite -- 1,830.23 down 27.2110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.77% up 0.02The euro -- $0.8958 down 0.0120The dollar -- 123.46 yen up 1.33 Graph: "TODAY" shows Leading Indicators since August. Graph tracks Morgan Stanley Dean Witter share price since Wed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (79%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); DAMAGES (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); MERGERS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); LITIGATION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); JUDGES (65%); BOOKSTORES (65%); INTEREST RATES (65%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); COMPANY EARNINGS (64%); ARRESTS (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (55%); CATERING SERVICES (50%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (91%); BORDERS GROUP INC (81%); VISA INC (81%); MASTERCARD INC (81%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (62%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); AT&T CONSUMER PRODUCTS PTE LTD (56%); CENTURYLINK INC (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (52%); BARNES & NOBLE INC (51%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (91%); BAB (BRU) (91%); BA (NYSE) (91%); V (NYSE) (81%); MA (NYSE) (81%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%); CTL (NYSE) (55%); DIS (NYSE) (52%); BKS (NYSE) (51%); MS (NYSE) (51%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (91%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (81%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (81%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (81%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (62%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2001 

 
