

1 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rally for 2nd Day As Oil Drops Below $60

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rallied yesterday as oil prices closed below $60 a barrel and the Commerce Department reported gains in consumer incomes. 
 Better-than-forecast monthly sales from Wal-Mart and more than $17 billion in proposed acquisitions aided yesterday's climb. 
 ''The market is certainly taking its cue from oil prices,'' said David Rolfe, who manages $450 million as chief investment officer of Wedgewood Partners in St. Louis. ''The economic news has been, on balance, better than expected. We got to a point where we endured a short-term sell-off, the short-term sentiment got to an extreme, and we were ripe for a rebound.''
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 8.60 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,207.01. The Dow Jones industrial average added 37.30 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,440.07. The Nasdaq composite index gained 30.42 points, or 1.5 percent, to 2,120.30. All three also rose on Friday.
 Crude oil for December delivery dropped 2.4 percent, to $59.76 a barrel, in New York, the first close below $60 since July. Expectations that warmer-than-normal weather may cut consumption in the Northeast helped the retreat.
 Wal-Mart Stores rose $1.81, or 4 percent, to $47.31. The company said October same-store sales rose 4.3 percent, beating its forecast of 2 percent to 4 percent.
 Prices of United States Treasury securities were mostly higher yesterday. The price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 3/32, to 97 20/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.55 percent, from 4.56 percent on Friday. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:



	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.016	97.914	High Rate	 3.890	 4.125	Investment Rate	 3.983	 4.271	Low Rate	 3.850	 4.090	Median Rate	 3.870	 4.105	Total applied for	$51,818,294	$40,831,003	Accepted	$26,157,982	$23,777,653	Noncompetitive	$2,005,421	$1,502,597	




GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005



2 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3418 words

HEADLINE: Dispute Leaves U.S. Executive In Chinese Legal Netherworld

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Oct. 31 

 BODY:
David Ji, a Chinese-American electronics entrepreneur, spent two months in custody enduring all-night interrogation sessions, but his stubbornness and occasional flashes of sarcasm infuriated his Chinese captors.
 So in late December last year, according to a person who compiled a record of the encounter, guards emptied his pockets, removed his shoes and socks, and ripped the buttons off his oxford shirt. He was ushered disheveled and barefoot into the office of Zhao Yong, the chief executive of Sichuan Changhong Electric, Mr. Ji's onetime business partner and, more recently, his warden.
''Your only way out is to do what Changhong tells you to do,'' Mr. Zhao told him. ''If I decide today I want you to die, you will be dead tomorrow.''
 Mr. Ji soon agreed to cooperate with Changhong. But a year after the Chinese police apprehended him in his hotel room during a business trip, he remains in China as a pawn -- Mr. Ji's colleagues say a hostage -- in a commercial dispute that pits Changhong, China's largest television manufacturer, against Apex Digital, Mr. Ji's electronics trading company based in Los Angeles. 
 Changhong, which declined repeated requests for comment over several weeks, claims that Apex owes it $470 million. Apex, which recruited Changhong to supply Wal-Mart, Best Buy and Circuit City with inexpensive television sets and DVD players, says it owes less than $150 million. The sums involved are large, but what is more significant about the case is the way Changhong, a major state-owned company in Sichuan Province, deployed the police, prosecutors and judges in a campaign to collect its debt.
 China has attracted hundreds of billions of dollars in foreign investment and has become the world's third largest trading power. But its legal system, even when handling nonpolitical business cases, has progressed far more haltingly and still rarely backs investors or ordinary citizens against the state.
 Difficulty enforcing contracts, rampant violations of copyrights and trademarks and protection of domestic industry champions have heightened trade tensions at a time when China is struggling to convince the outside world that its growing economic might poses no threat. Beijing is under heavy pressure to embrace global legal norms with the same fervor with which it has pursued foreign trade.
 Courts and arbitration panels do resolve many business conflicts that arise from China's thriving market-oriented economy, and they can rule professionally and impartially. But when the fate of powerful companies like Changhong, which has 36,000 employees, lies in the balance, the judicial system does not act independently and offers no recourse for outsiders like Mr. Ji.
 Ultimately, some legal scholars argue, China's legal system may not improve markedly until central and local government officials relinquish some control and stop putting short-term political goals, like protecting influential companies and suppressing dissent, above the law.
 Mr. Ji and his Los Angeles-based partner, Ancle Hsu, are ethnic Chinese who became American citizens. They helped Changhong break into the American market, and its products outsold Sony and Panasonic, heralding China's arrival as an electronics powerhouse.
 Relations with Changhong soured, however, over quality control problems and unpaid debts. And when they did, Changhong's first response was not to file a lawsuit, but to dispatch the police.
 The police from Mianyang, the city in southwestern Sichuan province where Changhong has its headquarters, apprehended Mr. Ji in Shenzhen, near Hong Kong, on Oct. 23, 2004. He entered a legal netherworld in which Changhong decided where he would be held in custody, when to interrogate him, and how he could help Changhong take over Apex, according to court documents, video recordings, and taped witness accounts compiled by people sympathetic to Mr. Ji. The records, which were also submitted to the State Department, were obtained independently by The New York Times. 
 Mianyang is a company town. The legal ambiguity partly reflects the tight bond between local corporate and government officials. It also reflects a risk of doing business in China that applies mainly to ethnic Chinese, dozens of whom have faced criminal charges after falling out with government-backed business partners. Overseas Chinese are often treated as subject to local authority regardless of their country of citizenship.
 But in this case, Changhong did not act like a rogue. It solicited and received financial and political support from the most senior levels of the central government, according to lawyers involved in the matter.
 Changhong's executives said they could not discuss a pending legal matter. But Jack C. Auspitz, a lawyer with Morrison & Foerster in New York who represents Changhong in an ongoing court case against Apex, said the California company repeatedly failed to pay for goods Changhong delivered. He said that he did not have detailed information about Mr. Ji's conditions in Chinese custody, but that he had no reason to believe that he had been coerced.
 The Chinese police accused Mr. Ji of fraud for writing bad checks to Changhong and have threatened to prosecute him. He has been released on a form of bail, with heavy restrictions on his freedom, while negotiations with Apex proceed. That has left the impression that his legal fate depends on debt talks between the companies.
 ''We have been doing business there for many years but could never imagine something like this happening,'' said Mr. Hsu, Mr. Ji's partner, in a recent interview. ''They have turned a commercial dispute into a hostage situation and a human rights issue.''

Trial and Error
 Changhong and Apex seemed, for a time, a brilliant match.
 The American company spotted the potential of the DVD player to replace the VCR in American living rooms if the price came down. Japanese makers dominated sales in the late 1990's, but often charged $400 or more, making it a luxury item. Apex thought that with the right Chinese partner it could change that.
 The job fell to Mr. Ji, 53, who is also known by his Chinese name, Ji Longfen. He was born in Jiangsu Province in eastern China and learned English at Fudan University in Shanghai before emigrating to California. There he and Mr. Hsu, a native of Taiwan, sold scrap metal and car radios before testing the DVD market.
 Retiring by American standards, Mr. Ji projects a polite deference that plays well in China. He wears his hair in a starchy wave, a style popular among Chinese officials. He toured industrial zones and small township enterprises for partners, a trial-and-error process that produced some embarrassing failures. A worker in one plant altered a chip on an Apex DVD player to make a message appear on the screen if a user loaded an X-rated film: ''You dirty old man!'' 
 Changhong, once a big defense contractor and now a publicly traded electronics maker, seemed more professional. The company, though majority owned by the Mianyang city and Sichuan provincial governments, had entrepreneurial drive. Under Ni Rongfen, its chief executive, Changhong became China's top television maker. It had its sights set on the American market.
 Mr. Ji and Mr. Ni struck a deal in 2001. In the Chinese style, the agreement consisted of a simple three-page purchase order.
 Changhong was not Apex's only vendor, but it rapidly became its largest. Its bulk production brought the retail price of its DVD players at Wal-Mart and Circuit City down to $59. In 2002, Apex became the top brand of DVD player in the United States.
 Apex also began selling Changhong-made television sets and got the cost of a 27-inch color model below $100, a record. The company's total sales hit $1 billion in 2002 and nearly $2 billion in 2003.
 But the two companies were on a collision course. Changhong received far less from its American sales than it initially recorded on its books. Fast growth covered that deficit for a time, but the Chinese company later claimed that half of what it sold ended up as unpaid debt.
 The companies have different explanations of what happened. Apex says Changhong mismanaged its business, basing production on price forecasts that proved overly optimistic. It also did not time its shipments well, saddling Apex with high storage costs, the company says. Worse, the California company claims, Changhong provided low-quality goods, including a ill-fated foray into rear-projection televisions, which left Apex to deal with dissatisfied customers and defective products.
 Changhong executives have told the Chinese news media that Apex played tricks with its vendors. It persuaded them to finance their own production and wait months for payment. Payments often lagged behind badly, raising suspicions of fraud.
 Two other Chinese electronics makers, the Hongtu High Technology Company and the Tianjin Tiancai Company, say Apex owes them money. A third supplier, the China Minmetals Corporation, recently settled a dispute with Apex in arbitration.
 Whatever the root causes of the dispute, Apex and Changhong initially tried to keep things on track, including by taking steps that came back to haunt Mr. Ji.
 In early 2003, as debts piled up, Mr. Ni, the Changhong boss, came under pressure to explain the shortfall. He leaned on Mr. Ji, who wrote 37 company checks totaling $85 million. Apex said the checks, which do not bear the markings of having been deposited, were meant as promissory notes. It said it honored them and more by paying Changhong $370 million later in 2003.
 Even so, Changhong's debt load worsened and its stock price plunged. Chinese state-run banks stopped advancing loans, Chinese news media reports said. That prompted a boardroom coup against Mr. Ni last summer. He was replaced by Zhao Yong, the deputy mayor of Mianyang.
 Shortly after he took office, Mr. Zhao sent a mission to Apex's headquarters to demand payment of $470 million, a figure Apex claimed was three times what it owed. The business relationship froze.
 Apex still had a sizable business in China. In October 2004, Mr. Ji visited to oversee progress on a Wal-Mart order for portable DVD players. He ignored warnings of a colleague at Apex, who felt the dispute with Changhong had reached a dangerous impasse, and decided to contact Changhong during the trip. He told his family he would be back in a week.
 Mr. Ji phoned Changhong after he arrived and said he would like to meet Mr. Zhao after attending to business in Shenzhen. He hung up thinking that a dinner appointment had been arranged. 
 ''I felt very happy because I thought the problem would finally be resolved by one person,'' Mr. Ji told a colleague. 

Pursuit and Capture
 Just after breakfast on Oct. 23, he answered his door at the Grand Skylight Hotel in Shenzhen. Seven men in civilian clothes identified themselves as police officers from Sichuan, 500 miles to the west. They interrogated Mr. Ji for most of the day. He was told he had committed fraud, though the charges were not spelled out and they had no warrant, according to the account compiled by people sympathetic with him.
 Late that afternoon, Mr. Ji was taken to a private dining room, where a Changhong executive played host for a banquet, complete with champagne and abalone. The Changhong executive raised his glass to the policemen, congratulating them on their ''pursuit and apprehension'' of Mr. Ji.
 Mr. Ji objected, saying he had never been on the run, according to the record of his detention. He was told not to speak for the rest of the meal.
 The officers then took him to the airport for a flight to Sichuan. Changhong purchased all eight seats in the first-class section, so the group had the cabin to itself.
 In Sichuan, he was handed over to Changhong. The company cordoned off a floor in one of its guesthouses and barred the windows, a makeshift jail. Guards kept watch. A television was left blaring day and night. For four days, Mr. Ji barely slept.
 On the fifth day, he was put on the phone with a lawyer named Charlie Wang, known as Wang Xiaoling in Chinese, of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, a white-shoe American law firm that Changhong had retained. Mr. Wang, who was based in Washington, D.C., told Mr. Ji that he had committed fraud and that his only way out was to sign documents that would help Changhong recover missing funds. Exhausted and afraid, Mr. Ji agreed to study the documents, the record of his detention says.
 He was then presented with a stack of legal papers the size of a mini-bar. They pledged all of Apex's assets, real property, trademarks and bank accounts as well as Mr. Ji's personal assets to settle the claimed $470 million debt. The documents granted Changhong power of attorney to review Apex's books and remove Mr. Hsu from his position. In effect, he signed away his stake of Apex to Changhong. 
 Mr. Ji initially balked. A guard then asked, ''Do you want this pen, or do you want your hand?'' The guard made a motion of chopping off his hand. Mr. Ji took the pen.

'Business as Usual'
 Changhong then began an attempt to take over Apex, Apex officials and the record of Mr. Ji's detention say. Mr. Ji was sent to Shanghai by train. 
 There he stayed in a Changhong-owned residence under guard. But he was instructed to visit Apex offices and act as if he were going about business as usual. He made frequent phone calls back home. As his Changhong guards listened, he repeatedly told Mr. Hsu to execute Changhong's instructions.
 The calls did not persuade Mr. Hsu.
 ''He pretended that nothing was wrong and everything would be worked out,'' Mr. Hsu recalled. ''But we knew he was not himself. Eventually, there was nothing we could say on the phone except, 'Yes David, O.K., yes.' ''
 Changhong dispatched accountants and investigators to Los Angeles in early December, but Apex refused access, arguing that Changhong lacked legal authority.
 It was only then that Changhong took legal action. On Dec. 14, Changhong sued Apex in Los Angeles County Superior Court. The company alleged breach of contract and demanded access to Apex, citing the documents Mr. Ji had signed.
 Apex contested the suit. In court documents, it said that Mr. Ji had been abducted and that the documents had been signed under coercion.
 Changhong pressed Mr. Ji harder to make Mr. Hsu cooperate. Mr. Ji scoffed, saying he had already ''fired'' his partner on Changhong's orders so there was little more he could do, according to the record of his detention.
 There were constant reminders, however, that his fate hung in the balance. A prosecutor and a judge from Mianyang visited Shanghai to talk with Mr. Ji. They told him that the 37 checks he had written to Changhong in early 2003 constituted a serious crime and that he could get life in prison or even be executed. His only choice was to cooperate with Changhong, the record said. 
 Changhong submitted the checks as evidence in its American lawsuit. There are no visible markings on the checks to show that they were deposited or sent through the banking system for payment. Apex says that proves Changhong treated the checks as they were intended -- as collateral to solve an accounting problem. They became obsolete when Apex made big payments to Changhong in April 2003, the company says. 
 Mr. Auspitz, Changhong's lawyer in New York, said that despite any other payments Apex may have made in 2003, those checks should have been honored. ''There is no question that Apex should have paid and did not,'' he said. 
 To counter Apex's argument that Mr. Ji was a hostage, Changhong arranged to have Mr. Ji deposed in Apex's Shanghai offices. Mr. Wang, the Cadwalader lawyer, was present and conducted the videotaped inquiry. Mr. Ji had no lawyer present, and Apex later argued that that raised questions of whether the tape would have any value in an American court.
 When taping began, Mr. Ji disputed Changhong's version of events, prompting a heated argument between Mr. Ji and Mr. Wang, according to people who saw the confrontation.
 The next day, Mr. Ji was taken to meet Mr. Zhao, Changhong's boss. Buttons and belt removed, he had to hold his pants up with his hands. Mr. Zhao warned him that Changhong controlled the courts in Mianyang, that Mr. Ji would be tried there, and that Changhong would decide if he lived or died.
 ''Apex must give Changhong all the money. This is your only way out,'' Mr. Ji was told, according to the record of his detention.
 A second taped deposition was arranged. Mr. Ji dressed neatly in a suit. He sat slumped in his chair and smiled wanly. Everything Mr. Wang asked him, he muttered agreement. As the camera rolled, he said Changhong had ''invited'' him to stay at its apartment in Shanghai while he sorted out the dispute about the checks.
 ''I am trying to run my company,'' Mr. Ji says on tape. ''I am the majority shareholder and want to use my power to manage this situation.''

High-Level Intervention
Changhong's lawsuit has remained unresolved in court in Los Angeles. The taped deposition was never formally submitted, though Apex received a copy. Apex then complained that Changhong's lawyer, Mr. Wang, acted improperly by being a party to the detention of Mr. Ji.
 Cadwalader subsequently withdrew from the case and Mr. Wang, who was made a partner just a few months earlier, left the firm. A spokesman for Cadwalader declined to comment on the case or on Mr. Wang, citing client confidentiality. Apex's business deteriorated as suppliers and customers learned of its troubles. Its sales this year are off sharply, and it has teetered on the verge of bankruptcy. It now claims it has no money to pay even the portion of the Changhong debt it acknowledges owing.
 Internally, however, Changhong may have scored a political touchdown. According to lawyers involved in the case, Changhong submitted a report to Prime Minister Wen Jiabao shortly after it arranged to have Mr. Ji detained. The report claims that a fraud masterminded by Mr. Ji put its business, and its 36,000 workers, in grave peril.
 It is unclear if Mr. Wen or other central government officials investigated the matter independently or endorsed Changhong's role in managing Mr. Ji's custody. But the lawyers involved said Changhong had boasted repeatedly about receiving Mr. Wen's support in the form of a three-point written instruction late last fall.
 The prime minister praised Changhong's leadership, authorized the company to take legal actions at home and abroad to protect its interests, and ordered state banks to provide emergency financing totaling nearly $1 billion, roughly double the amount Changhong claimed Apex owed it, they said.
 The ruling defused the crisis that prompted Changhong to pursue Mr. Ji. But it left the business dispute unresolved. And it left Mr. Ji in legal limbo, facing possible prosecution on the alleged fraud the company described to the leadership.
 On May 28, seven months after Mr. Ji was first detained, he was handed over to the Mianyang police for formal arrest on charges of ''financial instrument fraud,'' apparently a reference to the 37 checks he wrote Changhong.
 In formal police custody, Mr. Ji's conditions improved, according to the detention record. He has been allowed to visit a hospital to get treatment for hypertension, a kidney problem and a bladder infection. The interrogations ceased. American diplomats have visited him regularly, though they have not spoken publicly about the case.
 In June, Apex and Changhong signed a security agreement. Apex acknowledged a $150 million debt. The debt remains unpaid, however. Apex claims it has no money.
 In August, the police released Mr. Ji on restricted bail. He is allowed to move around Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan Province, but he is under strict orders not to discuss his case with anyone. The police confiscated his passport and gave him a mobile phone that he must keep with him 24 hours a day. He has not been indicted, but the local authorities frequently remind him that they can prosecute at any time.
 ''They turned this into a criminal case, and now they don't know how to resolve it,'' says Mr. Hsu of Apex. ''I'm afraid we need government intervention, maybe divine intervention, to help David return home.''

Rule by Law
 Articles in this series will periodically examine the struggle in China over the creation of a modern legal system. A previous article in this series with audio of Joseph Kahn and additional photographs is at nytimes.com/world.


GRAPHIC: Photos: David Ji, center, shown in an image from a videotaped deposition last year in a Shanghai residence owned by Sichuan Changhong Electric. (pg. A1)
David Ji, left, co-founder of Apex Digital, is accused of fraud. Zhao Yong, right, a former partner, is chief executive of Changhong, which says Apex owes it $470 million. (Photo by Imaginechina)
(Photo by Apex Digital)
 Employees heading to work at Sichuan Changhong Electric in Mianyang. The company, once a defense contractor, is publicly traded and majority owned by the city of Mianyang and the province of Sichuan. (Photo by Du Bin for The New York Times)(pg. A12)Map of China highlighting Mianyang: Changhong, with 36,000 employees, is Mianyang's major source of tax revenue. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (67%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (66%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (66%); JUDGES (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SICHUAN, CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005



3 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: N.Y.U. Graduate Students Say They'll Strike to Unionize

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
New York University is facing a strike next week by its graduate student teaching assistants, who lost their union representation in August and are trying to win it back.
 The students said yesterday that they would begin a strike on Nov. 9. 
 ''This issue is worth fighting for,'' said Susan Valentine, a fourth-year graduate student in history at N.Y.U. and graduate student leader. ''I really love teaching. I love being in graduate school. And it would not be possible for me without a fair salary and benefits that the union ensures.''
 N.Y.U. said that it was too early to say how many classes would be affected, and that it hoped any disruption would be minimal.
 ''Our expectation is that our graduate assistants and all of our instructors will recognize their responsibilities and continue to fulfill them,'' said John Beckman, an N.Y.U. spokesman.
 From 2000 until August of this year, about 1,000 teaching and research assistants had been members of local 2110 of the United Automobile Workers. But when their contract expired in August, N.Y.U. said it would no longer recognize a graduate student union.
 The university's decision followed a policy reversal by the National Labor Relations Board in Washington about whether private universities like N.Y.U. had to allow graduate student workers to unionize. (Graduate student assistants at public universities, who are covered by state labor laws, have been unionized for decades.)
 In 2000, as other universities and union organizers watched closely, the national labor board -- controlled at the time by Clinton appointees-- directed N.Y.U. to allow graduate student workers to unionize, making it the first private university to recognize a graduate student employees union. The Bush-controlled board took the opposite stand last year, giving N.Y.U. the right to pull back. The faculty was divided on the matter. 
 In the end, N.Y.U. offered the union the right to continue to represent the graduate assistants on economic matters if it would forgo the right to present grievances to an outside arbitrator. The university said that some of the grievances the union had filed interfered with academic decision-making. The union denied that it had encroached on N.Y.U.'s academic rights and rejected the offer.
 At the time, the university said it would continue to increase the $18,000 minimum stipend by $1,000 a year for the next several years, and would continue to pay for health insurance.
 At the end of August, union leaders and students and faculty members from N.Y.U. and other universities protested in front of the Bobst Library on Washington Square South. Seventy-six people were arrested on charges of disorderly conduct.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); ARRESTS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LABOR RELATIONS BOARD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005



4 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: U.N. TELLS SYRIA TO STOP IMPEDING SLAYING INQUIRY 

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 31 

 BODY:
The Security Council voted unanimously on Monday to compel Syria to stop obstructing a United Nations investigation into the assassination of the former Lebanese prime minister Rafik Hariri or face unspecified ''further action.''
 The 15-to-0 vote was a diplomatic shunning of Syria, which has found itself increasingly isolated since the publication 10 days ago of an initial report by the chief United Nations investigator in the case that identified high-ranking Syrian officials as suspects in the assassination. Among the votes was that of Algeria, the Arab representative on the Council.
While the resolution that was approved did not include a threat of specific economic sanctions, as some earlier drafts did, it keeps such options on the table because it was adopted under a provision that gives the United Nations broad powers to punish noncompliance. 
 The measure orders Syria to cooperate ''fully and unconditionally'' with the inquiry and to give complete access to places, documents and people that investigators ask for -- a caveat that diplomats said included President Bashar al-Assad, who has refused to be interviewed. The measure further orders Syria not to meddle in Lebanon's domestic politics, and it calls for international travel bans and asset freezes on suspects the investigation refers to a Security Council panel.
 In a statement after casting the American vote, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said that ''with our decision today, we show that Syria has isolated itself from the international community -- through its false statements, its support for terrorism, its interference in the affairs of its neighbors and its destabilizing behavior in the Middle East. 
 ''Now the Syrian government must make a strategic decision to fundamentally change its behavior.''
 The co-sponsors of the measure, Britain, France and the United States, won the unanimous vote by agreeing at the last minute to drop a reference to a United Nations Charter article threatening economic sanctions against Syria and replacing it with a warning of unspecified ''further action'' -- which could, in the end, still include such measures. 
 The diplomatic move, the result of early-morning negotiations, succeeded in attracting the support of Algeria, China and Russia, all of whom had indicated they would abstain if the explicit threat of sanctions remained. 
 They argued that it was premature to prescribe sanctions when the investigation was not complete. The United Nations investigation expires Dec. 15, and diplomats believe that it, or some form of it, will be extended beyond that date.
 Ambassador John R. Bolton of the United States said the last-minute changes were ''rhetorical,'' pointing out that the resolution was adopted under the rubric of Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, which gives the Council the power to impose punishment, including the use of military force. 
 ''I'm confident that it's a very tough resolution and makes it clear that serious consequences are going to follow if Syria doesn't cooperate,'' Mr. Bolton said.
 Mr. Hariri, a Lebanese politician opposed to Syrian domination of his country, was killed along with 22 others when a bomb exploded as his convoy was moving along a downtown Beirut street on Feb. 14. 
 The chief United Nations investigator in the case, the German prosecutor Detlev Mehlis, issued a 54-page report in which he said the killing had been organized by Syrian security officials. In the report, which was made public on Oct. 20, he also said the Syrians had deliberately misled his investigators and offered little cooperation, and that claim provided the basis for drafting a tough resolution.
 The debate in the Council on Monday was given added drama by the fact that the meeting was a ''ministerial'' one, with foreign ministers of 11 of 15 Security Council member nations personally representing their countries around the horseshoe panel.
 Representing Syria was Foreign Minister Farouk al-Sharaa, who was cited in the Mehlis report as one of the officials who had misled investigators.
 Addressing the Council after the unanimous vote against his country, he assailed the report as one based on ''preconceived conclusions.'' Denying all charges of obstruction, including the one against him and his ministry, he said, ''It is clear from any person who has followed this issue through that Syria's cooperation was complete -- I repeat, complete.''
 In a comment that led to a vigorous counterattack by Foreign Secretary Jack Straw of Britain, Mr. Sharaa said accusing the Syrian security forces of knowing in advance about Mr. Hariri's assassination was the same as accusing security forces in the United States of having advance knowledge about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the authorities in Spain of knowing about the 2004 train bombings, and officials in Britain of having advance word of the London subway bombings this year.
 Mr. Straw said he ''wholly rejected the comparison,'' which he called ''grotesque and insensitive'' and ''at best, absurd.''
 Ms. Rice later referred to Mr. Sharaa's comments as a ''really unbelievable tirade,'' saying, ''This was a truly strange presentation.'' 
 Mr. Straw told Council members that if they had had any misgivings about why the resolution had to be an enforceable Chapter VII measure, ''those misgivings were surely put to rest by the lengthy statement we have just heard.''
 ''I look forward to cooperation from Syria,'' he said, ''but after what I have just heard, I am not holding my breath.''
 The Russian and Chinese ambassadors noted approvingly that President Assad had appointed his own judicial commission to investigate the Hariri slaying, but Mr. Bolton, the American ambassador, said at a news conference: ''I'm not going to lose any sleep over that one. We want Mehlis's investigation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); APPROVALS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (66%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); LEBANON (93%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005



5 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Old Menus Provide Clues About Shifting Seafood Tastes and Harvests

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
In 1899, the New York Public Library received a query from a Miss Frank E. Buttolph, who wanted to know if it would add restaurant menus to its growing collections. 
 The answer was yes, and Miss Buttolph, then 49, began spending 25 years visiting restaurants in the city and writing hoteliers and other correspondents abroad, eventually amassing more than 25,000.
They have periodically been dusted off and put on display, providing visitors with a view of the changing tastes and spending habits of everyone from Park Avenue power brokers to South Street stevedores.
 Now, those menus, and thousands of others in collections around the country, are being sifted by oceanographers seeking hints of changes in fish and shellfish populations and popularity before good records were kept. ''A menu was a piece of ephemera, it wasn't meant to be saved, but thankfully some people collected them,'' said Glenn A. Jones, an oceanographer at the Galveston campus of Texas A&M University and a leader of the research.
 Only by knowing how bountiful the ocean was can one determine the potential for restoring important marine fisheries, he said. Before fisheries agencies routinely collected data on landings and prices, he added, there was not a lot of information to go on. Menus also are one of the only tools for tracking shifting consumer demand for various species. 
 Dr. Jones presented initial findings last week at a meeting of marine biologists in Kolding, Denmark, that are part of an international project, the Census of Marine Life, which is an effort to create a detailed picture of past and current stocks of marine species by 2010 (www.coml.org).
 On menus, seafood types were seen to come and go as various species grew in popularity, were fished out and were then replaced by something else.
 New England and New York menus showed how Atlantic halibut was replaced by cod, which was replaced by haddock, which was followed by the mix of juvenile haddock and cod called by the market name scrod.
 Dr. Jones said he first examined the 400 boxes of menus in the New York library's Buttolph collection three years ago. Hundreds of them provide precise snapshots of species and price.
 Altogether, 200,000 menus have been uncovered in the research, mainly in New England, the New York collection and San Francisco. About 10,000 show prices and dates.
 Such menus provide an indirect measure of scarcity when the price is adjusted for inflation, Dr. Jones said. They also show the resilience of species.
 For example, oysters have been a steady resource. In New York and Massachusetts, their price held constant from the 1850's through the 1950's at 50 cents to $1 apiece in 2004 dollars. The price doubled in the next decade but then held steady for 40 years. 
 Abalone, the mango-size Pacific Ocean mollusks with tender scalloplike flesh, has an entirely different history. They were once so abundant in California that old photographs show shell heaps rising to the rooflines of fishermen's shacks. 
 The delicacy started appearing on San Francisco menus in the 1920's, and the price of an entree stayed steady through the 1930's at about the equivalent of $7 in 2004 dollars. 
 Since the 1950's, Dr. Jones said, the price of abalone has shot up at 7 to 10 times the rate of inflation. Abalone served in the city now comes from places as far away as Australia.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Thousands of menus from collections, mainly in New England, New York and San Francisco, are helping researchers gauge diners' tastes for seafood over the years as well as the scarcity of different species. A postcard, circa 1920, shows abalone shells piled high. (Photo by Census of Marine Life)
 (Photo by New York Public Library)Chart: ''Can We Share the Entree?The price of an abalone dinner in San Francisco has jumped more than sevenfold since the 1920's, even after adjusting for inflation.Graph tracks the price of an abalone entree, adjusted to 2004 dollars, from the 1920's through the present..(Source by Glenn A. Jones, Texas A&M University at Galveston)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); OCEANOGRAPHY (90%); SEAFOOD (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); LIBRARIES (89%); FISHES (88%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (74%); FISHERIES (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); BIOLOGY (72%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); GALVESTON, TX, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (95%); DENMARK (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005



6 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Personal Income Rises, but Fuel Prices Take a Bite in Spending

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Consumer spending rose 0.5 percent and personal incomes rose 1.7 in September, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. But after adjusting for inflation, spending dropped for a second month, the first back-to-back decline in 15 years and a sign that rising fuel costs left Americans with less money for other purchases. 
 Personal spending adjusted for inflation, which strips away the rise in energy prices, fell 0.4 percent after declining 1 percent in August.
 The report showed that incomes bounced back in September because uninsured losses from Katrina in August were revised to $240 billion from $100 billion at an annual pace. Losses not covered by insurance fell to $5 billion in September.
 Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had expected spending to rise 0.5 percent before the inflation adjustment. Incomes had been forecast to rise 0.3 percent. Excluding the effects of the hurricanes, personal income rose 0.5 percent in September after increasing 0.3 percent in August.
 ''Consumer spending was really slowing down a lot in August and September,'' said Kevin Logan, senior market economist at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in New York. ''We're entering the fourth quarter on a weak note.''
 Because spending rose less than incomes, the saving rate improved to minus 0.4 percent, from minus 1 percent the previous month. The rate weighs income from wages, salaries, dividends, businesses and government payments against spending. 
 It does not take into account borrowed money, income from investments or rising home prices. Increasing wealth from rising home values and higher stock prices has added to incomes and supported spending.
 Consumers' penchant for spending more than they earn, even amid higher energy prices, is one reason not to worry about the slowdown in inflation-adjusted sending, some economists said.
 Consumers have ''taken these hits and continued to spend more than they make, and if that trend continues, assuming any correction in energy prices, the economy is going to remain strong,'' said Michael Englund, chief economist at Action Economics in Boulder, Colo. 
 Incomes rose 6.3 percent in September from the same month last year, paced by a 6 percent gain in wages and salaries. 
 Disposable income, or the money left over after taxes, increased 1.9 percent in September after a 1.1 percent decline in August. Disposable income was up 5.3 percent in the last 12 months.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Residents in Miami buying gasoline after Hurricane Wilma. Adjusted for higher energy prices, consumer spending dropped in September. (Photo by Carlo Allegri/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); WEATHER (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (82%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (82%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005



7 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

U.N. Votes to Punish Syria If It Still Thwarts Inquiry
The Security Council voted unanimously to compel Syria to stop obstructing a United Nations investigation into the assassination of a former Lebanese prime minister, Rafik Hariri. The resolution did not specifically refer to economic penalties as a punishment but did contain a provision that allows punishment for noncompliance, including possible military force. A1

German Coalition in Jeopardy 

Negotiations to form a coalition government in Germany were thrown into jeopardy when the leader representing the Social Democratic Party in talks with the Christian Democratic Union said he would step down after losing an internal power struggle. A8

A Caution for Investors in China
The case of David Ji, a Chinese-American electronics entrepreneur, who was held and interrogated by Chinese police, highlights the slow progession of China's legal system in backing foreign investors or ordinary citizens against the state. A1

Lethal Month for U.S. in Iraq
The military announced the deaths of seven American troops near Baghdad, bringing the number killed in October to 92 and making it the highest monthly toll since January, when 106 American troops died. A6

Claims of Cuban Money in Brazil
A report in Brazil's leading weekly magazine says that $3 million in illegal campaign contributions were given to the political party of Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in his successful presidential campaign in 2002 from the government of Cuba. A11

NATIONAL A14-25

President Bush Names New Supreme Court Choice
President Bush named Samuel A. Alito Jr., an Ivy League-educated federal appeals court judge with a conservative record on abortion and a history of prosecuting organized crime, as his latest choice to succeed Justice Sandra Day O'Connor on the Supreme Court. A1

The selection of Judge Alito drew immediate opposition from abortion rights groups, who argued that he would fundamentally shift the balance of the court and open the door to major new restrictions on abortion. A25

Methodist Rulings on Gays
The highest court in the United Methodist Church defrocked an openly lesbian minister in Pennsylvania and reinstated a pastor in Virginia who had been suspended for not allowing a gay man to join his congregation. A14

Labor Officials Criticized
The Labor Department's inspector general criticized department officials for ''serious breakdowns'' in procedures involving an agreement promising Wal-Mart Stores 15-days' notice before labor investigators inspected its stores. A14

Vice President Fills Vacancy
The White House made its first personnel moves since the indictment of Vice President Dick Cheney's chief of staff, I. Lewis Libby Jr., naming two longtime aides to Mr. Cheney to take on Mr. Libby's duties. A17

Philidelphia Transit Strike
Nearly 400,000 people who use public transportation in Philadelphia struggled to get to work and school after transit workers went on strike. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Hartford Diocese Settles Abuse Claims for Millions
The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Hartford has agreed to pay $22 million to settle sexual abuse claims brought by 43 people against 14 priests, including at least one who remains the pastor of a church, the archdiocese and lawyers for the victims announced. B1

Debate Over Bag Searches
The tension between public safety and personal privacy was the subject of a vigorous debate in a Manhattan courtroom as a trial got under way in a lawsuit challenging police inspections of bags and packages at subway entrances. B3

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

OBITUARIES C19

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Health & Fitness F5

ARTS E1-10

A Spoofer Captured by a Spoof
The comedian, actor and satirist Chris Elliott is in a comic's nightmare after falling for an online spoof and incorporating a fictional robot into his book as a historical figure. He has agreed to a financial settlement with the robot's creator to avoid potential litigation. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-19

Wal-Mart's Image Campaign
Wal-Mart, under fire from opponents over its wages, health insurance and treatment of workers, has quietly recruited former political advisers to set up a rapid-response public relations team in Arkansas. A1

Earnings Warning From Dell
Dell warned investors that its shift in strategy to focus on higher profit margins would result in lower-than-expected revenue and earnings in the third quarter. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Another lost opportunity; a warning to Syria; the digital money mill; fair lending in the Senate.

Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); SUPREME COURTS (86%); GAYS & LESBIANS (85%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); STRIKES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ASIAN AMERICANS (74%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (69%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (69%); JUDGES (69%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (69%); ABORTION (68%); APPEALS COURTS (64%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (61%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (57%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (93%); BRAZIL (92%); LEBANON (92%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005



8 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: In a City Near Niagara Falls, Waiting for the Ax to Fall

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: LOCKPORT, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The mayor of this small city on the Erie Canal watched the cars leaving the factory parking lot at the end of a shift one recent afternoon and wondered how many more shifts would change at the plant, a cornerstone of the local economy for nearly a century.
 In a region once teeming with factories, this one, which employs about 3,800, is the largest remaining manufacturer around. Founded in 1910, it was known as Harrison Radiator until it fell under the umbrella of the Delphi Corporation in 1999, when General Motors spun off a number of its parts-producing subsidiaries.
But on Oct. 8, Delphi, which employs nearly 35,000 hourly workers nationally, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Its chief executive, Robert S. Miller Jr., had warned for weeks of deep cuts in wages and benefits because of competition in the United States and abroad and shrinking demand by G.M. 
 The Lockport plant, Niagara County's largest employer, faces possible shutdown. And even if Delphi keeps it open, workers will probably face the unpleasant choice between large wage and benefit cuts or layoffs. 
 ''People are concerned, as well they should be,'' said the mayor, Michael W. Tucker. ''This is serious business. We're worried about the unknown.''
 He has several reasons to be concerned. Besides serving as mayor of this city of 22,000, he works at the plant and is a longtime official of the United Automobile Workers, which represents most of the workers.
 ''For 20 of the 28 years I've worked there, a plant closing has always been hanging over our heads,'' Mayor Tucker said. ''It starts to go in one ear and out the other. But this time it's different.''
 Mr. Miller said Delphi cannot profitably produce parts while spending an average of $65 per hour per employee, including benefits and hourly wages of up to $30. His assessment for Lockport was especially grim: The factory makes radiators and parts for heating and air-conditioning systems that, he said, could be produced more cheaply elsewhere.
 ''Unfortunately, Lockport makes components that are going to be very difficult to continue manufacturing even at standard industry wages in America,'' let alone what Delphi is paying, Mr. Miller said after the Chapter 11 filing. He added that New York's tax and workers' compensation rates would also be considered during the reorganization.
 Assembly-line workers at the plant average $26 an hour, with skilled employees drawing $30. The wages are in line with those paid to goods-producing workers in Erie and Niagara Counties, where most Delphi employees live. 
 According to State Labor Department figures, employees in the manufacturing sector in Erie and Niagara Counties averaged $59,457 in 2004, nearly 40 percent above the national figure of $42,762.
 But such jobs became scarce as steel mills in the Buffalo area and the chemical industry in Niagara Falls withered through the final decades of the 20th century. 
 ''What we had here generated a fairly highly paid labor force,'' said George M. Palumbo, an economics professor at Canisius College in Buffalo. With so many companies moving to areas with lower labor costs, he said, ''there's been a constant transition away from those high-paying jobs, and it's going to continue.''
 Even the handful of auto-industry plants that remain, like Delphi, have steadily cut their payrolls through attrition. When Mr. Tucker started at the factory, he was one of about 13,000 workers there, more than all those employed today in the entire transportation-equipment manufacturing industry in the region.
 New jobs in the area have been largely in service industries that pay a lot less. Service workers in Erie and Niagara Counties earned an average of $27,853 in 2004, more than 22 percent below the national average.
 Professor Palumbo said the impact of a Delphi closing would devastate the local economy, even if every job lost was replaced by one in the service sector. He estimated the annual loss at more than $300 million.
 ''You hate to see anyone lose their jobs, especially in this area, because there are so few good-paying jobs,'' said Chet Secrist, who owns Chet's Dog House, a diner on Main Street.
 On Oct. 21, an initial contract proposal by Delphi called for wage cuts to $9 or $10 an hour and an increase in worker contributions for health care. That is a proposal that many workers say they cannot afford.
 ''How can you pay for a house on $10 an hour?'' asked Phyllis J. Green, a retired assembly-line worker who has served eight terms on Lockport's City Council. ''How can you afford for your kids to go to school? You can't suffer that much and still be able to pay for everything.
 ''If you took two-thirds of your income away, how could you survive?''
 Jon L. Kalls, an electrician at the factory for 37 years, said the youngest of his three children just started her first year at nearby Niagara University. Delphi's bankruptcy filing, he said, means postponing plans to retire after his daughter graduates.
 ''We'd have to seriously think about taking our daughter out of private school'' if the Lockport plant closes, Mr. Kalls said. ''If I had enough in savings to put her through, then I'd be totally broke. I'm 60 years old, so I'm getting close to collecting Social Security, but that's not nearly enough to put a kid through college.''
 Workers like Mr. Kalls, as well as thousands of retirees in the area, fear that Delphi's bankruptcy filing could jeopardize their pensions. The company did not mention pension cuts in its contract proposal, but its pension fund is underfunded by $10.8 billion, according to the federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. 
 In late September, Delphi sent its hourly workers a letter warning: ''Your benefits may be at risk if the company faces a severe financial crisis or is in bankruptcy.''
 Many workers said they were counting on their $2,500 monthly pensions as the primary source of retirement income. ''When I signed on to work there, that's something I expected to get,'' Mayor Tucker said. 
 [Gov. George E. Pataki's office said yesterday that he has proposed incentives to keep the factory open, including grants of about $20 million to be linked to job retention, 10 megawatts of low-cost electricity and a proposal to cut workers' compensation costs, which would need approval by the State Legislature.
 A spokesman for the company told The Associated Press that the incentives would help but that ''Delphi has not made any final decisions on any specific facility.'']
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representatives Louise M. Slaughter and Thomas M. Reynolds, whose constituents include many Delphi employees, have also talked with Mr. Miller about tax incentives and tightening trade restrictions to make Delphi competitive. 
 Mr. Tucker said that years of factory closings and economic downturns in the region have braced him, his co-workers and the community for whatever happens.
 ''If the plant does close, we're not going to close up shop and sail down the canal,'' he said. ''We'll make it. It's just going to be a little different.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chet Secrist, the owner of Chet's Dog House, a diner in Lockport, N.Y., worries about losing business if the Delphi Corporation closes its plant. (Photo by Doug Benz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (75%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); HVAC SYSTEMS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (69%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (60%); EXECUTIVES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005



9 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Koizumi Shuffles His Cabinet, Narrowing Field of Successors

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 31 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi appointed several leading conservative figures to top positions in a new cabinet on Monday, narrowing the field of potential candidates to succeed him as prime minister next year.
 Mr. Koizumi, who after his landslide victory last month said he would shuffle his cabinet to groom possible successors, appeared to have picked aides who would pursue his economic reforms and maintain his tough stance toward Asian countries, especially China.
 Mr. Koizumi handed one of the most high-profile posts, chief cabinet minister, to Shinzo Abe, 51. Mr. Abe's hawkish stance on North Korea and China has helped him become one of Japan's most popular politicians and a favorite of the Bush administration, but has earned him the deep distrust of Asian neighbors. 
 Another hard-liner, Taro Aso, 65, was appointed foreign minister, at a time when Japan has solidified its security alliance with the United States but has grown diplomatically isolated in this region.
 Because Mr. Koizumi has repeatedly said he will step down as prime minister and leader of the governing Liberal Democratic Party next September, the Japanese media and political circles have already shifted their attention to the post-Koizumi era.
 Besides Mr. Aso and Mr. Abe, two other politicians have been the focus of intense speculation as possible successors in recent weeks. One of them, Sadakazu Tanigaki, 60, considered a moderate, was reappointed finance minister.
 In a telling development, the fourth candidate, Yasuo Fukuda, 69, was not given any portfolio. Mr. Fukuda, a moderate with longstanding ties to China, is known to support cultivating friendly ties with Beijing and building a secular alternative to the Yasukuni Shrine, the Shinto war memorial where 14 Class A war criminals are deified.
 The cabinet reshuffle clearly made Mr. Abe the frontrunner. In his new post, he will act as the government spokesman and become the most visible politician after the prime minister, seen on television across Japan several times a day.
 Japan's relations with China have deteriorated even as economic ties have deepened. Mr. Koizumi's annual visits to Yasukuni, considered the symbol of unrepentant militarism by Asian countries that were brutally invaded by Imperial Japan but a sacred spot for Japanese nationalists, have been a constant irritant. 
 At a news conference after his appointment, Mr. Abe, who in the past has prayed at the shrine on the most sensitive of dates, Aug. 15, the day on which Japan was defeated in World War II, pledged to continue the visits. ''I've visited as one citizen up to now, as well as a politician,'' Mr. Abe said. ''I'd like to keep this stance in the future.''
 Mr. Aso, the new foreign minister, said that, despite Yasukuni, relations with China had been good over all. ''They're going well in other areas, such as economic cooperation and cultural exchanges among young people,'' he said.
 Among other appointments, Heizo Takenaka, 54, the architect of Mr. Koizumi's economic and structural reforms, was selected as internal affairs minister. He was also charged again with overseeing the privatization of the country's postal services.
 Mr. Koizumi, whose government concluded a far-reaching restructuring of its security agreement with the United States over the weekend, appointed Fukushiro Nukaga, 61, as head of the defense agency. Mr. Nukaga, who had previously served in that position, also played a major role in the recent negotiations over the security agreement.
 All the candidates considered possible successors to Mr. Koizumi deflected the issue.
 ''A year is a very long time in the world of politics,'' Mr. Tanigaki said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); WORLD WAR II (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); RELIGION (64%); WAR CRIMES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TARO ASO (79%); SHINZO ABE (79%); YASUO FUKUDA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (57%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (57%) JAPAN (95%); CHINA (95%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005



10 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Cuba Accused of Illegal Campaign Gifts in Brazil

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Oct. 31 

 BODY:
During Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva's successful presidential campaign in 2002, his Workers' Party received up to $3 million in illegal campaign contributions from the government of Cuba, according to the cover story in the current issue of Brazil's leading weekly newsmagazine.
 The report, which the party and the Cuban government have denied, has reignited the wide-ranging corruption scandal that has paralyzed Mr. da Silva's government for nearly six months. 
After a month of muted complaints that conveyed a sense that the worst was over, opposition leaders have reacted to the report with threats of a new, politically exhausting investigation and even impeachment proceedings.
 ''This is a serious occurrence in every respect,'' Senator Tasso Jereisatti, a leader of the center-left Brazilian Social Democratic Party, said in an interview with the newspaper O Estado de Sao Paulo, noting that Brazilian law forbids campaign donations from foreign sources. ''If it is proven, the president is going to have no alternative. He will not have the conditions to be able to govern; he'll have to give up his job.''
 The report, in the magazine Veja, did not say how the money, said to be cash in American dollars, was transported from Cuba to Brazil. 
 But it quotes two party functionaries, both former aides to Antonio Palocci, then a senior member of Mr. da Silva's campaign team and now the finance minister, as saying the money was delivered by a Cuban diplomat, hidden in cases of Johnny Walker whiskey and flown to Mr. da Silva's campaign headquarters. 
 ''I took a plane from Brasilia bound for Sao Paulo with three cases of liquor,'' Vladimir Poleto, who identified himself as the courier for one shipment of money, was quoted as saying in the magazine account. ''Afterward, I learned that there was money in one of the cases.''
 Mr. da Silva, who has maintained all along that he was unaware that a multimillion-dollar slush fund was being used to buy the support of members of Congress and to pay his media adviser's bills off the books, has not yet commented directly on the accusation. But the president of the Workers' Party, Ricardo Berzoini, dismissed the Veja report as false and politically motivated.
 ''It's completely baseless,'' he said. ''Veja is acting like a front of attack on the government and not as a journalistic publication.''
 The government of Cuba, which funneled money to selected guerrilla groups and left-wing parties in Latin America through the 1980's but says it has abandoned the practice because of its own moribund economy, also denied the report in emphatic terms. In a statement, the Cuban Embassy in Brasilia called the Veja article part of ''an orchestrated campaign of lies'' motivated by the ''aggressive plans of imperialism against Cuba and against Lula,'' as Mr. da Silva is popularly known.
 Veja is Brazil's most widely read publication, with a weekly circulation of more than 1.2 million. In May it published the first article detailing a corruption scheme in Mr. da Silva's administration, which it has followed with numerous others that have proven to be accurate.
 Relations between President Fidel Castro of Cuba and Mr. da Silva and the Workers' Party have always been cordial. During Brazil's era of right-wing dictatorship, Jose Dirceu de Oliveira e Silva, the president of the party during the 2002 campaign, was exiled for several years in Cuba. 
 On a visit there in 2001, an admiring Mr. da Silva told the Cuban leader, ''Thank you, Fidel Castro, thank you for existing.''
 The corruption scandal, the worst in modern Brazilian history, has left Mr. da Silva, who ran on a good government platform and will be up for re-election in less than a year, on the defensive. Not only has Mr. Dirceu, his closest aide, resigned, but so have the president, secretary general and treasurer of the Workers' Party.
 Since the election last month of Aldo Rabelo -- an ally of the president who is a member of the Communist Party of Brazil -- as speaker of the lower house of Congress, the tide seemed to have shifted somewhat. 
 Mr. da Silva's standing in opinion polls stopped falling, and he and his staff and supporters stepped up their criticism of the three congressional investigations looking into corruption, calling them partisan witch hunts meant to destabilize Brazil.
 ''By trying to criminalize the Workers' Party and President Lula, the opposition could lead the country to a very negative climate,'' said Jaques Wagner, Mr. da Silva's chief political operative. ''This climate of raising permanent suspicions about the party and President Lula himself is not good for Brazilian democracy.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); SCANDALS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); IMPEACHMENT (69%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (91%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) BRAZIL (98%); CUBA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005



11 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1599 words

HEADLINE: Chairman Nominee May Bring a New Openness to the Fed 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 31 

 BODY:
If Ben S. Bernanke has his way, the Federal Reserve is likely to become more open, less mysterious and perhaps less intriguing than it is right now.
 In an article he wrote with other academics -- long before President Bush nominated him to succeed Alan Greenspan as Fed chairman -- Mr. Bernanke bluntly argued that the Fed needed to base its credibility on more than the mystique of its chairman.
''The 'just trust us' approach may work in a period when the chair and the Board of Governors command widespread support,'' Mr. Bernanke and three colleagues wrote in Foreign Affairs.
 ''But the happy state of affairs will not last forever,'' they continued. ''It is more sensible, and more democratic, to begin to act now to depersonalize monetary policy making by increasing Fed transparency and accountability.'' 
 It was a striking swipe at Mr. Greenspan, who adamantly resisted any effort to set rules that would limit the Fed's discretion and prided himself on his ability to dodge questions and, as he once put it, only partly tongue-in-cheek, ''mumble with great incoherence.'' Mr. Greenspan was a master of old-style ''Fed-speak,'' deliberately creating an atmosphere of ambiguity to preserve his maneuvering room.
 But Mr. Bernanke represents a younger generation of thinkers and policy makers who have already pushed the Fed and most other central banks to be far more explicit and open about their actions and goals. 
 The big difference is much less about the substance of monetary policy than about how that policy is communicated to financial markets and the public at large.
 Under Mr. Greenspan, the Fed has already undergone a revolution in transparency. As late as 1994, seven years after Mr. Greenspan had taken over, it did not even formally announce its decisions on interest rates. Today, it not only announces every decision but also gives strong clues about its intentions for the months ahead.
 The Greenspan style of ''transparency'' will be apparent on Tuesday, when the Fed meets to set short-term interest rates. Because the Fed has offered so many clues for so long, there is virtually no doubt that it will raise the overnight federal funds rate by a quarter-point for the 12th time in a row.
 Indeed, for all his studied obscurity and convoluted way of speaking, Mr. Greenspan has often been remarkably clear about his underlying intentions. Moreover, he developed a knack for getting his message across with such memorable phrases as ''irrational exuberance'' to describe the overheated stock market and ''new paradigm'' to explain how improvements in productivity allowed the economy to grow faster without setting off higher inflation. 
 But Mr. Bernanke, as a professor at Princeton and later as a governor at the Fed, has argued for years that the Fed should go even further in explaining itself and bind its policies to an explicit, publicly stated target for inflation.
 Committing to an inflation target, Mr. Bernanke and his supporters have argued, would give the Fed added credibility with investors and make its policies much easier to anticipate and understand.
 Opponents of the idea, including Mr. Greenspan, say the Fed has left little doubt about its goals on inflation but needs to preserve its flexibility to deal with unanticipated shocks.
 In many respects, the debate is academic. As a practical matter, economists on Wall Street have known for some time that Mr. Greenspan essentially wants to keep the core rate of inflation between 1 and 2 percent a year.
 But Mr. Bernanke's approach could lead to big changes in how the Fed communicates. 
 ''Ben is going to unlock a lot of mystery,'' said Mark L. Gertler, chairman of the economics department at New York University and a co-author of numerous papers with Mr. Bernanke. ''He's going to explain what he's doing and give an underlying rationale for it. The Fed will become less mysterious, and I think people will like that.''
 As a Fed governor from 2002 until earlier this year, Mr. Bernanke displayed a drive to break new ground about trends in the economy and even to provoke debates -- much as if he had never left his post at Princeton.
 In 2002, outlining ways to avoid an unwanted decline in consumer prices, he declared that the Fed ''has a technology, called a printing press'' and could increase inflation by printing as many dollars as it wanted.
 In 2003, he argued at length that the economy was in the midst of a ''jobless recovery'' and became a strong supporter of keeping interest rates low to shore up growth. 
 Earlier this year, Mr. Bernanke provoked debate around the world by turning conventional wisdom upside down about the United States' rising foreign indebtedness. The problem was not that Americans were spending too much, he said, but that the rest of the world has a huge ''savings glut'' and needs to do something with its money.
 Such speeches suggest that Mr. Bernanke may find it hard to contain his zest for explaining and debating even after becoming Fed chairman. 
 In doing so, he may face challenges similar to those faced by Mr. Greenspan, who in recent years has been clearer than his reputation for double talk suggests. But his tenure was filled with memorable cases of fudging and coming down squarely on both sides of the fence.
 Under increasing fire from critics who said his policy of low interest rates had led to a bubble in the housing market, Mr. Greenspan recently admitted that there ''are a lot of local bubbles'' and that ''there's a lot of froth in this market,'' even if he saw no national housing bubble.
 Mr. Greenspan is widely perceived as having given a green light to President Bush's plans for a big tax cut in 2001, and thus to have helped set the stage for the huge deficits that followed. Mr. Greenspan, however, insists that he always cautioned that there was a need for ''trigger'' mechanisms that would stop the tax cuts if deficits got out of hand.
 But the bigger question for Mr. Bernanke is his approach to talking about monetary policy, the heart of the Fed's business and the part that has been most secretive.
 ''Central bankers have a basic responsibility to give the public full and compelling explanations'' for their decisions, Mr. Bernanke said in a speech last year to the American Economic Association. ''Besides satisfying the principle of democratic accountability, a more open policy-making process is also likely to lead to better policy decisions.''
 But a Bernanke Fed could turn out to be as obscure as the Greenspan Fed. 
 In theory, a policy of inflation targeting would require the central bank to disclose its goal and its forecast for inflation, its assessment of risks and even the models it uses to make its predictions. In practice, Mr. Bernanke has embraced the idea of ''constrained discretion,'' meaning that the Fed could depart from its normal rules to deal with unexpected shocks like a big jump in oil prices or the fallout from a terrorist attack.
 Mr. Bernanke and most other Fed officials have thus far attached fairly little importance to a one-time jump in oil prices, arguing that such jumps have little impact on the long-term inflation trend.
 Mr. Bernanke has also kept emphasizing that the Fed could take as long as it wants to reach its inflation target. At a conference sponsored by the St. Louis Fed two years ago, he said the Fed should describe an inflation target as a ''long-run objective only'' and make clear that it ''sets no fixed time frame for reaching it.''
 ''You want to set rules, but with a lot of flexibility,'' said Frederic S. Miskhin, a professor of economics at Columbia who wrote a book with Mr. Bernanke on inflation-targeting.
 But if the Fed can take as long as it wants to hit its target, would investors be able to anticipate Fed policy any better than they can today? 
 The ambiguity of inflation-targeting is evident in the speculation about whether Mr. Bernanke would be a tough-minded ''hawk'' or a soft-hearted ''dove'' on inflation.
 Bond investors initially perceived Mr. Bernanke as a dove, pushing bond prices down when his nomination was announced because they assumed he would allow slightly higher inflation than Mr. Greenspan.
 Many Wall Street analysts contend that view is wrong, and some Democratic lawmakers in Congress worry that Mr. Bernanke might even focus too much on fighting inflation and not enough, as they see it, on promoting full employment. 
 The uncertainty suggests that the Fed could be forced to explain a great deal more about its strategy, simply to clarify how its inflation target would actually work.
 ''It's going to take a big educational job,'' said Allan H. Meltzer, a professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh and a historian of the Fed. ''Right now, we have a lot of people in the markets yelling about inflation. Short-term numbers show that prices are rising, but we all know that has to do with oil prices and that's a one-time increase. You have to explain what you're doing.''
 Mr. Gertler, at N.Y.U., said one of Mr. Bernanke's goals was to move the spotlight away from the mystique of the Fed chairman and onto the basic policy goals.
 But that may not be possible. With his zeal for explaining and a knack for bons mots that could rival those of Mr. Greenspan, Mr. Bernanke may find himself as much in the limelight as his predecessor.

The Greenspan Effect
 Articles in this series will periodically examine Alan Greenspan's 18-year tenure as chairman of the Federal Reserve, which is scheduled to end in January. The articles will remain online at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ben S. Bernanke has argued for less mystery at the Federal Reserve. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
 Alan Greenspan, regarded as a master of ambiguous ''Fed-speak,'' nevertheless has had a knack for phrases that get his message across. (Photo by F. Carter Smith/Bloomberg News)(pg. C11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); INFLATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); BEN BERNANKE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005



12 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: The Right Connections

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT

 BODY:
CONSIDER the tie. Before buying one as a holiday present, you could spend hours browsing the racks, pondering the recipient's tastes, favorite color, fabric. Or you could buy one that you like, because a tie's a tie and if the person doesn't like it he won't wear it anyway. 
 Then consider gadgets -- impersonal objects, right? Color is usually less of a consideration, and fabric is generally not involved. But buying these items as gifts requires more knowledge of what the recipient likes, owns and wants. After all, a tie that is not loved is just one more article in a closet, but a gadget that doesn't hit the mark is often a bigger waste of money or a headache, especially when the giver is drafted as a help desk.
Dr. Charles Gordon, a physicist who is also a general practitioner in New York, is a tech gift giver with a strategy. ''You ask somebody if there is a thing they like,'' he said, ''and if it's within your budget, you get it.'' 
 His strategy works, and there are bound to be others. Americans are expected to spend at least $17 billion on consumer electronic goods and services as gifts this year, an increase of 9 percent from last year, according to the Consumer Electronics Association, a trade group in Arlington, Va.
 In its recent Annual Holiday Spending Survey, the group found that 77 percent of 1,000 randomly selected adults who were interviewed said they were ''likely'' to buy some kind of consumer electronics product as a gift for the holidays. When asked about consumer buying habits, Sean Wargo, the association's director of industry analysis, said, ''There are a lot more choices, a lot more categories to choose from.''
 But while the new Apple iPod Nano music player, for example, may seem like a great stocking stuffer, high-tech gifts involve much more than generosity. They require a different way of thinking about gifts and giving, because they say as much about the giver as they do about the receiver.
 ''The power of these gifts is that they are intimate gifts,'' said Sherry Turkle, the director of the Initiative on Technology and Self at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''The seductive power of these kinds of gifts is that you think you're giving somebody a gadget and you end up getting them an intimate machine.''
 A digital audio player is basically ''a vessel waiting to be filled,'' she said. It only becomes useful and meaningful after the owner selects and downloads content -- favorite songs, special playlists, for instance -- into it. ''Then,'' Ms. Turkle added, ''it becomes a new extension of self'' as the person uses it.
 The idea that an electronic gadget is cold is becoming outmoded, said Helen Malani, chief consumer shopping expert and spokeswoman for Shopzilla.com, a comparison-shopping Web site. She said that women accounted for the majority of online purchases as well as off line, and that they are ''embracing techie gadgets to help balance their lives and connect to friends and family.''
 It follows, Ms. Malani said, that women -- who make up 69 percent of Shopzilla's 17 million unique visitors a month -- are increasingly eyeing electronics for gifts.
 ''There is a special psychology in buying electronic goods,'' she said. ''A lot of things are at play.''
 Shoppers, for instance, should be cautious about getting swept up in the excitement over the latest version of a popular gadget, she said. The newest version tends to be laden with the most features, which could overwhelm some recipients if they are not comfortable with the technology.
 Ms. Malani said that brands may matter more with electronics than other types of gifts. People may prefer that the brand match equipment they already have.
 And because the prices of consumer electronic products vary so much, she urged buyers to comparison-shop for gifts. By doing smart shopping, especially on the Internet, consumers can track down a digital camera, for instance, that costs less than a discounted cashmere sweater.
 Sally Smith Clemens, chief spokeswoman for Olympus America, agreed that technology gifts require much more from the giver than neckties and scarves. 
 For example, before giving a digital camera, she said, ask yourself two questions: Is the recipient comfortable with advancing digital camera technologies; and is the person adventurous enough to learn how to use new camera features and upgrades?
 Ms. Smith Clemens calls this ''giving a gift to open a door.''
 Don Carroll, the senior vice president and chief marketing and brand officer for the Radio Shack Corporation, said, ''Technology has its own fear factor, and gift giving always has a little bit of jeopardy involved.''
 His chief suggestion? ''Be a good detective,'' he said. He said it was vital to discover what sort of consumer the person is. ''See where they are on the adoption cycle,'' he said, referring to consumers who are quicker than most to buy the latest things.
 ''The gift that gives the biggest smiles is when you give them something they need,'' Mr. Carroll said.
 By contrast, the gifts most likely to elicit stammering are things they do not want. 
 ''I'm shying away from high tech,'' said Steve Friedberg, the owner of MMI Communications, a high-technology public relations company in Downington, Pa. These gifts, he added, ''are great only if you have some assurance'' that the recipient ''is actually going to use it on a regular basis.''
 He said the worst fate for a gift was having it stuffed in the back of a drawer. So now he tends to give with a more custom fit: personalized cards and a book on a subject of interest to the person, for example.
 P. J. Brown, a 40-something actor who lives with his wife and 9-year-old daughter in Santa Monica, Calif., uses his cellphone, checks his e-mail and hunts and pecks out thoughts on the family computer often.
 But as the holiday season approaches, he said he is dreading the possibility that friends and family may buy him other gadgets. Visions of digital cameras, camcorders and tiny audio players bursting forth from shiny paper make him anxious.
 ''I would probably never think to give somebody a tech gift because I'm not that comfortable with it myself,'' Mr. Brown said. 
 But some people who tend not to buy gadgets for themselves may be more inclined to give them to others. Dr. Gordon in New York, for example, bought iPods for his 22-year-old twin daughters because they wanted them. 
 In fact, the Consumer Electronics Association consumer survey indicates that portable digital audio players like the iPod top this year's holiday wish list as the technology product that people would like to receive as a gift, Mr. Wargo said. The association found that consumer interest regarding portable audio players increased to 28 percent from 20 percent last year.
 Also high on the list, Mr. Wargo said, are digital cameras, video game systems, portable CD players and cordless phones and cellphones. Lower on the list are higher-priced items like large-screen color televisions and laptop computers.
 Mr. Wargo said the average American holiday shopper was likely to buy consumer electronics gifts from seven consumer electronic categories.
 The association estimates that the average American household this year will spend $1,430 over all for the holidays -- including gifts, decorations, food, travel and other seasonal expenses -- up from last year's figure of $1,254.
 Ross Rubin, the director of industry analysis for the NPD Group, a market research company, said the popularity of electronics as gifts indicated how high technology has become integrated in people's lives.
 Many technologies have become so integrated, hesaid, that enhancers for devices can make helpful, budget-conscious gifts.
 For example, Mr. Rubin said, if the recipient had a video game console, like a Sony PlayStation 2 or Microsoft's new Xbox 360, which is scheduled for release later this month, the person giving a gift may consider buying games and accessories for it.
 The same is true, he said, of Universal Media Disc movies and television shows, which cost $15 to $30, for Sony's PlayStation Portable, in addition to DVD's.
 The Consumer Electronics survey also found that personal computer upgrades and home networking devices are high on the list as gifts for people who update as soon as possible. This year consumers are more interested -- up 2 percentage points from last year -- in buying gift certificates.
 Mr. Rubin added that services that extend the use of consumer electronic products also make good and economical gifts, like subscriptions to Netflix for DVD rentals and GameFly for video game rentals.
 But Mr. Brown remains doubtful that technology and gift giving are a natural fit, especially when it comes to his own life.
 ''Technology is a different language,'' he said. ''I don't have the vocabulary. A lot of people don't have the vocabulary.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ART OF GIVING -- Steve Friedberg of MMI Communications, above left, prefers low-tech gifts like rum cakes, while Dr. Charles Gordon, a physicist in New York, above right, and Helen Malani of Shopzilla, top, favor electronic gadgets. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)
(Photo by Marissa Roth for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)(pg. G10)Drawing (Drawing by Thomas Fuchs)(pg. G1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); ELECTRONICS (88%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TEN (G10) (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



13 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Reports on the Economy

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Manufacturing activity grew at a slower pace in October as companies felt the strain of a continuing rise in the prices of energy and raw materials, a report released yesterday by a manufacturing group showed. 
 A separate report from the Commerce Department yesterday pointed to continued health in the construction business, where spending rose 0.5 percent in September, to another record high. Spending reached a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $1.12 trillion as builders took advantage of lower interest rates while they still could.
The Institute for Supply Management, issuing its monthly report on the United States industrial sector, said its manufacturing index was at 59.1 percent last month, down from 59.4 percent in September. A reading above 50 indicates that the sector is expanding; a number below 50 indicates that it is shrinking. The index is compiled from a survey of purchasing executives across the country.
 The institute's measure of costs, its prices index, rose to 84 percent in October, from 78 percent in September. That is a level not seen since May 2004, when the prices index reached 86, but it is well below the high of 100 reached in June 1950.
 ''Rising prices, and energy costs in particular, are of major concern as manufacturers are struggling to control costs,'' Norbert Ore of the institute's business survey committee said. 
 Stephen Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital Markets, said the higher prices were a result of increased production at factories and of supply disruptions tied to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
 New orders, a gauge of future activity, fell to 61.7 in October, from 63.8, while employment rose to 55, from 53.1. The institute's production index fell to 62, from 63.1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); CONSTRUCTION (79%); FACTORY ORDERS (79%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



14 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Aetna to Pay For Program To Manage Depression 

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
A widely tested approach to diagnosing and treating depression, one of the nation's most prevalent and costliest afflictions, is moving into the mainstream of insurance coverage. 
 Prompted in part by employers who cite depression as a frequent cause of absenteeism and low productivity, the big insurer Aetna plans to announce today that it will begin paying for a depression management program in dozens of medical offices around the country.
Under the plan, Aetna will pay primary care doctors additional fees to screen patients for depression and to provide follow-up consultations for patients who are either put on antidepressants or, in more severe cases, referred to psychiatrists or psychologists. Aetna plans eventually to offer the program nationwide. 
 The additional costs of identifying and treating depression, Aetna said, can in many cases be more than offset in avoiding the larger financial costs associated with the disease -- and the higher medical expenses that often arise when other chronic conditions, like diabetes and heart disease, are compounded by depression. Depressed patients with such diseases often stop taking their medications or fail to carry out recommended exercise and diets.
 Researchers said that 33 million Americans require treatment for depression each year, and at least one in six people have the disease, with varying degrees of severity, at some point in their lives. 
 The total economic cost of depression has been estimated at more than $83 billion a year in this country, with more than half of that incurred by employers in lowered productivity, absenteeism and disability, according to a 2003 study in The Journal of Clinical Psychiatry. 
 From an employer's standpoint, ''depression has the greatest negative impact on productivity for nonmanufacturing companies,'' said Daniel J. Conti, vice president for the employee assistance program at J. P. Morgan Chase, for which Aetna is an insurer. ''It is like the perfect storm for the jobs in today's workplace, the same way a bad back limited a worker on the job for my father in a factory.'' 
 John W. Rowe, Aetna's chief executive, plans to announce the company's program tonight at a meeting of mental health experts in Atlanta. 
 In a parallel approach to depression, Kaiser Permanente, the big nonprofit managed care company, has assigned a mental health aide to each of its salaried primary care physicians in Northern California.
 A few companies, like Caremark Rx, which specializes in managing care for patients with chronic conditions like diabetes and heart disease, routinely screen these patients for depression, which frequently accompanies those diseases. 
 The announcement by Aetna comes after a report on mental health and substance abuse issued yesterday by the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies, a nonprofit public policy advisory group. That report calls for greater collaboration between mental health specialists and family care doctors, who are typically the first physicians that depressed patients turn to, reinforcing a recommendation in 2003 by a presidential commission on mental health.
 Studies have found that in many cases depressed patients receive only cursory attention in the offices of overworked family physicians and other primary care doctors, who nevertheless write an estimated 65 percent to 75 percent of the nation's prescriptions for Prozac and other antidepressant drugs. 
 ''People with depression are sitting around, not getting identified, impacting the business community,'' said Laurel Pickering, president of the New York Business Group on Health, an employers group. ''What Aetna is doing is going to be a help.''
 The approach has been tested in some research-financed programs already in place by other organizations, which involve family physicians and other primary care doctors who are trained to identify depression and counsel patients. Specially trained nurses call to encourage patients and remind them to take their medicines. Mental health specialists advise primary doctors on difficult cases, and patients with symptoms of severe depression are referred to psychiatrists or psychologists.
 ''The clinical part of it is a no-brainer; it clearly helps patients,'' said John W. Williams, an associate professor of medicine and psychiatry at Duke University, who is one of the principal investigators for a program on depression and family care doctors for the MacArthur Foundation. ''It also helps employers,'' he said.
 Part of the Aetna screening will involve a written test that has already been in use elsewhere, the Patient Health Questionnaire, or PHQ-9, which was developed at Columbia University and tested by researchers in the MacArthur Foundation program at Dartmouth College and Duke University. 
 Peter Amann, a family practice doctor in Scarborough, Me., has been using the questionnaire in a program organized by MaineHealth, a hospital group, with research grants from MacArthur and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundations. 
 One of his patients, a 60-year-old retired nurse who spoke only on condition of anonymity, said she had felt weighed down by problems. Her husband has had two strokes; her mother-in-law, who is 98, is also ill; and her rebellious teenage son left home and is now in Iraq with the Army Striker Force. 
 After Dr. Amann identified her depression last winter by her answers to the questionnaire, he gave her a prescription for a generic version of Prozac, and she got a follow-up call from a nurse who asked how she was doing. ''It was so uplifting, it really feels good that somebody was caring,'' she said.
 With encouragement from the doctor, she began to ''get out and bike again, walk again,'' and she resumed volunteering at Saint Maximilian Kolbe Church. 
 ''I'm optimistic, Dr. Amann is optimistic,'' she said. ''I made some strides in the right direction.''
 Aetna is starting its program by increasing payments by 30 percent to 40 percent for selected primary care doctors that it has been training in a depression care program in six states: New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, Texas and Oklahoma, as well as the District of Columbia. Aetna said it would add $15, on average, to a doctor's $40 fee for a routine visit, when physicians use the screening questionnaire. 
 ''The reimbursement is a good step'' because the program involves costs for the doctor, said Dr. Michael Klinkman, a family physician at the University of Michigan Depression Center in Ann Arbor. 
 Helen Darling, president of the National Business Group on Health, an organization of large employers, said patients' preference for consulting their primary care doctors on such matters was understandable. ''They don't want to say they are going to see a psychiatrist,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Amann, a family practice doctor in Scarborough, Me., has been treating patients for depression in a research program for MaineHealth. (Photo by Alexandra Daley-Clark for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEPRESSION (93%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (78%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (77%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (76%); DIABETES (75%); HEART DISEASE (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AETNA INC (92%); KAISER PERMANENTE (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (51%)

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); CVS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (51%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



15 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: ATA Expects to Stop Flights From Its Hometown in January

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
ATA Airlines, once the busiest carrier in Indianapolis but shrinking during bankruptcy proceedings in the last year, said yesterday that it would cancel its last three daily flights out of the city, which is its headquarters, as of Jan. 10. 
 The move, however, is not expected to disrupt travel into and out of Indianapolis, which has continued to experience strong growth at its airport and has had little trouble attracting other carriers, notably Northwest Airlines, to take up the slack left by ATA, a subsidiary of ATA Holdings.
Although a disaster for many industry workers and investors, the bankruptcies and other financial setbacks sweeping the airline industry are not limiting the availability of flights. If anything, carriers are shifting into new markets more aggressively, and competition on many routes is increasing.
 As recently as early 2004, ATA operated about 50 flights on jets and smaller commuter planes every day from Indianapolis, according to a spokesman, Denny Poynter. Many of ATA's 1,400 employees there will probably soon lose their jobs.
 Mr. Poynter would not say how many workers were involved in flight operations and how many worked at corporate headquarters, which will remain in Indianapolis.
 Over all, ATA employs 4,200 people and operates 122 flights a day, many from its hub at Midway Airport in Chicago. It hopes to emerge from bankruptcy early next year.
 ATA's decline ''really hasn't hurt the airport tremendously,'' said Peter Stettler, a senior director at Fitch Ratings who rates the debt of airports. He called the shift of market share from ATA to Northwest a change in paint color, but otherwise not meaningful to the airport.
 ''It's a very competitive airport,'' he said. Traffic rose 7.6 percent through the first nine months of 2005, and the airport is in the midst of a $1.5 billion expansion.
 Northwest has quickly become the largest carrier there, with about 25 percent of the market. But with Southwest Airlines and US Airways both at about 13 percent, competition keeps prices low, with an average one-way fare of $137, below the national average of $146, according to Fitch. It's a vibrant market with a lot of demand for air service, Mr. Stettler said, with a good mix of carriers.
 The Indianapolis Airport Authority, however, is still struggling with a $220 million maintenance center it financed for United Air Lines in the mid-1990's, only to have United abandon the 300-acre site in 2003 after it filed for bankruptcy protection.
 The maintenance center is partly rented out by AAR Aircraft Services, which does maintenance work for many airlines, although the rent is not yet sufficient to resume payments on bonds sold by the authority to finance the center, Mr. Stettler said.
 ATA is also trimming its flight schedule from Chicago, notably to Denver, where low-cost carriers have created fierce competition.
 ATA is working to reduce its fleet, cut labor and other costs and raise capital from outside investors. Like all airlines, it was hit hard by the post-9/11 decline in travel and the recent rise in fuel prices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIR FARES (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); AIRPORT OPERATION (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); MARKET SHARE (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); LAYOFFS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (94%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



16 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Trading the Car for the Train

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif., Oct. 26 

 BODY:
Los Angeles may be the car capital of America, but a few Angelenos, it seems, are beginning to consider leaving their cars at home. 
 Frustration with ever worsening traffic is stimulating new interest in denser, more urban patterns of development, a trend reflected by new mixed-use complexes near -- or right on top of -- transit stations.
 One such development is Del Mar Station, with 347 mostly market-rate apartments distributed among four buildings, each in a different architectural style. Situated two blocks from Old Pasadena, this suburb's picturesque 19th-century business district, it is bisected by the tracks for the new Gold Line light-rail line, which also run directly underneath some of the apartments. The line carries commuters from the northeastern suburbs to downtown Los Angeles.
 Designed by Stefanos Polyzoides, a leading proponent of the planning movement known as new urbanism, Del Mar Station is still under construction. But it is considered so promising that the developer, Urban Partners of Los Angeles, one of 11 companies that bid on the site, sold the complex this year for $134 million to Archstone-Smith, a real estate investment trust, after receiving an unsolicited offer. 
 Tenants -- presumably made up of people who do not mind living in close proximity to warning bells from approaching trains -- are expected to begin moving in early next year. 
 Interest in projects at transit stations has surged recently, said Carol Inge, the deputy executive for transportation development for the Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 
 ''There was a historic image that residents really preferred the suburban ranch house,'' she said. ''I've been delighted and surprised to see that there truly is another market segment of folks who absolutely have a preference for a different lifestyle.''
 Since the 1990's, the M.T.A. has been involved in nine joint projects with developers, costing a total of $1.5 billion. These include Urban Partners' 449-apartment development, with 36,000 square feet of retail space, over the subway station at Wilshire Boulevard and Vermont Avenue, about four miles west of downtown Los Angeles. 
 Of the 3,300 transit stations around the country, only about 100 are known to have inspired so-called transit-oriented development, or T.O.D.'s, according to a study financed by the Federal Transit Administration. Developers say that having to coordinate with transit and other public agencies makes these projects challenging, particularly if train service is operating while construction is taking place.
 For the Wilshire-Vermont project, for example, Urban Partners was required to temporarily relocate the elevator and stairs leading to the subway stop 90 feet below the street. This delayed the project for a year and accounted for at least 8 percent of the $120 million cost, said Paul Keller, a principal of the company, which is known for adapting old buildings to new uses.
 Referring to T.O.D.'s, he said: ''These projects are much harder to capitalize and have many more moving parts than buying a building and renovating it. There are some very complicated agreements that have to be negotiated.''
 In suburban communities like Pasadena, residents often fear that denser development will increase traffic. ''People make a fundamental mistake,'' Mr. Polyzoides said. ''They see them as purveyors of gridlock.'' But instead, he said, people who live near stores will more likely do their errands on foot, thereby reducing traffic.
 Despite such obstacles, advocates for public transit say they expect demand for transit-oriented projects to escalate in major metropolitan areas because of the influx of new residents, particularly immigrants accustomed to public transportation; the aging of the population; the rising incidence of single-parent and other nontraditional households; and lower crime rates, which have made downtowns more appealing.
 By 2030, the population of the six counties that make up the greater Los Angeles region is expected to grow by a third, to 24 million. Over the last two decades, 500 miles of rail lines have been added.
 According to a recent report by Reconnecting America, a nonprofit group that promotes T.O.D.'s, households in transit zones nationwide own an average of 0.9 car, compared with 1.6 cars for metropolitan regions as a whole. And a 2003 study financed by the California Department of Transportation found that state residents living near transit stations were five times as likely to commute by transit than the average resident worker in the same city.
 In the Washington suburb of Arlington, Va., which has been in the forefront of transit-oriented development, many residents do without cars entirely. Nearly half of those living near the stations take Metrorail to work, Reconnecting America said.
 But around the country, most buildings near stations are poorly designed and uninviting, said Robert Cervero, the chairman of urban planning at the University of California, Berkeley, and the principal author of the federally sponsored T.O.D. study. ''They lack the good-quality pedestrian environment and the kinds of urban amenities that instinctively draw people to them,'' he wrote in an e-mail message.
 At Del Mar Station, however, commuters and residents will share 1,200 underground parking spaces, and considerable attention has been paid to the plaza that runs through the middle of the project. A newly restored Spanish-style railroad depot will house a restaurant and shops.
 ''The key thing is the way they integrate density very carefully into the neighborhood,'' said Gloria Ohland, a vice president of Reconnecting America who is based in Los Angeles. Because of the variety of architectural styles, she said, ''it looks like it could have been several projects.'' 
 In Arlington, design considerations were not paramount when planning for transit-oriented development began in the mid-1960's. Millions of square feet of commercial and residential space have been added along the three-mile corridor between the Ballston and Rosslyn Metro stops. hotels, office space, retail and housing
 But the last section of the corridor to be developed -- the retail center around the Clarendon stop -- embodies many ''new urbanist'' features. The centerpiece is a retail-and-housing complex called the Market Common, which opened in phases, beginning in 2001. The project has 1,200 parking stalls, but they are not visible from the street.
 Daniel T. McCaffery, the president of McCaffery Interests, a private company in Chicago that developed Market Common, said he broke with tradition to reduce the need for parking; tenants were not assigned their own spaces so that the same ones could also be used by shoppers.
 ''That was a bit gutsy,'' said Mr. McCaffery, whose company, along with its financial partners, sold the center in 2003 for $166 million to TIAA-CREF, the teachers' pension fund, but continues to manage it. ''We had to spend a fair amount of time talking to banks about that.''
 And, to blend in with the neighborhood, Market Common, which is built around a central courtyard, tapers off in scale as it gets closer to the streets. Along the edges of the project, for example, are bungalow-style town houses that resemble the older houses on the opposite side of Danville Street so that it is hard to see where the complex begins.
 Though most developers these days are eager to build residential units, Jay Fisette, the chairman of the Arlington County Board, said it was important for officials to prevent a single property type from dominating a neighborhood. ''You have to resist responding only to the market,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, an apartment complex during construction next to the Pasadena Metro Gold line. At left, a mixed-use space within blocks of a Metro stop in Arlington, Va. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Steve Ruark for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAINS (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (77%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TAKEOVERS (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (71%); RETAIL PROPERTY (67%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



17 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Copper's Recent Declines Stir Talk of Boom's End 

BYLINE: By Heather Timmons

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
FOR much of the year, copper prices climbed steadily, driven by a housing boom in the United States and demand from the rapidly industrializing economies of India and China. Supply disruptions further fed the price gains. 
 If that sounds similar to the story of crude oil futures this year, it should. Like oil, copper has attracted a wave of new money from hedge funds and other big investors seeking to ride the rally.
But with the copper rally stuttering in recent weeks, and prices down as much as 3 percent from their October highs, some analysts and investors say they see signs that a bubble is about to burst. 
 ''If one tries to gauge the commodity bubble over all, copper is the place to look,'' said Henry To, the manager of a small hedge fund, Independence Partners, which has been diversifying from equities into commodities. 
 Prices have been inflated by emotion, not fundamentals, just as they have in oil, he said. ''People are just scared, because they think we'll run out of copper in the warehouse.'' 
 Maqsood Ahmed, a senior metals analyst at Calyon Global Trading in London, predicted that copper prices ''will fall at least 25 percent by the end of the year.'' Speculative buyers, he said, have pumped the copper market up beyond what the fundamentals justify.
 When copper prices start to fall, ''it could be a dramatic affair rather than a slow burn,'' said Nick Moore, director of global commodity analysis at ABN Amro. 
 He predicts that copper prices will be 40 percent lower in 2006 than they are today. 
 On Tuesday, copper for December delivery rose 0.5 cent, or 0.3 percent, to $1.816 a pound on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three months was unchanged at $3,912 a metric ton ($1.77 a pound).
 Copper is up 30 percent this year. Since 2003, the price has doubled. 
 The stage was set for the rally in copper several years ago, when prices were low and producers stopped investing money in exploration and new production.
 Most producers never foresaw the upswing and have only recently begun to reinvest, so inventories have shrunk to their lowest in decades.
 On Oct. 20, copper prices breached $4,000 a metric ton for the first time in London, a surge fed by mining strikes and inventory worries.
 Since then, the rally has run out of steam. Inventory has started to creep up, and predictions for 2006 growth in China are slowing. 
 Despite the market jitters, not everyone is convinced there is a bubble in copper. Some investors say that growth in China and India will continue for the long term, changing the fundamentals of supply and demand for metals and fuel.
 ''All the fundamentals would suggest that we are going to stay at these high prices,'' said Fred Demler, executive vice president and manager of the metals division at Man Financial in New York. ''Inventories are low, the market is tight and China is a big buyer.'' 
 Investors and traders fled the copper market a decade ago, after regulators found that an influential trader at Sumitomo had engaged in unauthorized trades. The trader, Yasuo Hamanaka, known as Mr. 5 Percent for the share of the market he was believed to have controlled, wreaked havoc with prices and cost his bank billions of dollars. 
 But traditional investors have returned, along with mainstream ones who are new to the markets. 
 Pension and fund managers who once dealt primarily in equities or bonds have been moving into commodities as a way to profit from the growth in China. For example, the value of investments in the Goldman Sachs commodities index now stands at $45 billion, up threefold from 2002, according to Goldman Sachs. 
 Some say that stocks listed in China are too risky because of concerns about corporate governance and secrecy, but the London and New York commodity exchanges are seen as safe spots to invest. 
 That remains to be seen. Some copper traders and consumers have started to grumble that buyers may be stockpiling supplies without counting them as inventory, creating artificial shortages.
 The French cable manufacturer Nexans, a big copper consumer, has asked the London Metal Exchange to examine why prices for immediate delivery of copper are higher than futures prices (a market condition known as backwardation) even though there appears to be no shortage of short-term supplies. 
 Backwardation could be a result of stockpiling supplies. While no one is predicting a repeat of the Sumitomo scandal, such activity may be adding to already high prices, analysts say. 
 Adam Robinson, a spokesman for the London Metal Exchange, the largest market for copper, declined to comment on whether the exchange was investigating the matter.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Copper Run''The price of copper has risen steadily this year.Graph tracks daily closes of 3-month copper futures on the London Metals Exchange since January.(Sources by London Metals Exchange
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPPER MARKETS (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CREDIT AGRICOLE CORPORATE & INVESTMENT BANK SA (68%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



18 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Shares Slip on Dell's Forecast of Weakened Earnings 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks fell slightly yesterday after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates as expected, and Dell, the computer maker, forecast disappointing results for the current quarter. 
 The Fed raised the nation's benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point, to 4 percent, as widely expected. The Fed also signaled that it would continue gradually raising rates, but noted that inflation had had relatively little effect on the economy in recent months.
 Stocks may be falling because of sentiment on Wall Street that the increases are unwarranted. 
 Chris Johnson, manager of quantitative analysis at Schaeffer's Investment Research in Cincinnati, said this increase and the one or two expected to follow might simply serve to give Ben S. Bernanke, who has been nominated as the next Federal Reserve chairman, wiggle room to cut rates as a stimulus next year. 
 The most recent sign of a slowing economy came from Dell, which trimmed its sales and income goals for the current quarter after the close of regular trading Monday, saying sales in the United States and Britain were weak. The company also said it would take a third-quarter charge of $450 million to restructure its consumer unit and replace some faulty PC circuits. 
 Dell fell $2.64, or 8 percent, to $29.24 a share. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 33.30 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,406.77. 
 Broader stock indicators also dropped. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 4.25 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,202.76, while the Nasdaq composite index slipped 6.25 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,114.05. 
 Bonds were lower, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rising to 4.56 percent from 4.55 percent late Monday and the price, which moves inversely to the yield, falling 3/32, to 97 17/32. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies in European trading. Gold prices were lower. 
 The nation's manufacturing activity grew at a slower pace during October as companies increasingly felt the strain of a continuing rise in energy and raw materials prices, the Institute for Supply Management said. The institute's measure of costs, its prices index, rose to 84.0 in October from a reading of 78.0 in September. 
 More broadly, concerns about inflation, natural disasters, housing prices and energy prices continue to hang over the market, said Aaron Gurwitz, a senior strategist at the private investment management group of Lehman Brothers. 
 ''The problem is that we see these concerns as not getting better; they're sort of staying the same as they are or getting worse,'' he said. 
 Bob Sitko, an assistant vice president at USAA Private Investment Management, agreed. ''Looking into next year, we have more worry than optimism,'' he said. ''We're positioning more cautiously than aggressively.'' 
 In other company news, Procter & Gamble, maker of Pampers, Pringles, Tide and other consumer products, fell 74 cents, to $55.25, even though it said fiscal first-quarter net income grew a better-than-expected 4 percent, helped by strong revenue growth and despite the effects of hurricanes and rising energy and commodity costs. 
 McDonald's rose 17 cents, to $31.77, after Vornado Realty Trust said in its quarterly filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission that it owned about 1.2 percent of McDonald's outstanding shares. Rumors have circulated since this summer that the real estate company might buy a stake in the fast-food company, drawn by its property holdings. Vornado fell $1.31, to $79.69. 
 Marsh & McLennan, the nation's largest insurance brokerage firm, said its profit rose in the third quarter despite a decline in revenue. But its earnings missed analysts' expectations and the stock fell 65 cents, to $28.50. 
 Viacom, the media conglomerate that owns MTV, CBS and the Paramount movie studio, swung to a profit of $708.5 million in the third quarter, bouncing back from a loss a year earlier. 
 Following are the results of the Treasury's auction of one-year bills.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.710
High Rate: 3.725
Coupon Yield: 3.788
Low Rate: 3.700
Median Rate: 3.710
Total applied for: $42,632,657
Accepted: $17,761,852
Noncompetitive: $151,939

The four-week bills mature Dec. 01, 2005.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve'' plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); HOME PRICES (62%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (62%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



19 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 384 words

PERSON: Endre Marton

HEADLINE: Endre Marton, 95; Reported on the '56 Uprising in Hungary

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Endre Marton, a prize-winning journalist who sent the first account of the Hungarian uprising of 1956 just weeks after serving a year in prison for covering the events preceding it, died yesterday at the home of a daughter in Manhattan. He was 95. 
 His daughter Kati Marton confirmed the death.
As a correspondent first for The Daily Telegraph of London and later for The Associated Press, Mr. Marton reported on the Communist takeover of Hungary from the late 1940's through the autumn of 1956, when the anti-Communist uprising was suppressed by Soviet forces. He worked beside his wife, Ilona, a reporter for United Press, who was also imprisoned for her work. 
 In 1957 the Martons, who had fled from Hungary, shared a George Polk Award. The award is given yearly for reporting in the public interest, often carried out at considerable personal risk. Mrs. Marton died last year..
 After settling in the United States, Mr. Marton was for many years the senior diplomatic correspondent for The Associated Press. In the 1960's he was president of the State Department Correspondents' Association.
 Endre Marton was born in Budapest on Oct. 29, 1910. He earned an undergraduate degree from Budapest University in 1932 and a doctorate in economics from the university in 1936. An accomplished fencer, he was a member of the 1936 Hungarian Olympic team. He married Ilona Nyilas in 1943.
 In early 1955, Mr. Marton was arrested on what were widely considered false charges of spying for the United States; Mrs. Marton was arrested that June. Tried and convicted in secret by a Hungarian military court, he was sentenced to six years in prison, she to three.
 Mrs. Marton was released in April 1956, Mr. Marton in August. But their vigorous coverage of the uprising, which began that fall, put them in danger of being arrested again. They and their children were given asylum in the American Embassy, from which Mr. Marton slipped out each day to report on the fighting. The family was smuggled out of the country at the beginning of 1957.
 Besides his daughter Kati, a journalist, Mr. Marton is survived by another daughter, Julia Marton-Lefevre of San Jose, Costa Rica; a son, Andrew, of Fort Worth; and four grandchildren.
 In 1971 he published ''The Forbidden Sky'' (Little, Brown), an account of the uprising.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); PRISONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); ARRESTS (86%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); OLYMPICS (71%); ESPIONAGE (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); SMUGGLING (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (91%); SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) HUNGARY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); COSTA RICA (79%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



20 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Text of Fed Statement on Interest Rates

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to raise its benchmark interest rates a quarter-point:
 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to raise its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points, to 4 percent. Elevated energy prices and hurricane-related disruptions in economic activity have temporarily depressed output and employment. However, monetary policy accommodation, coupled with robust underlying growth in productivity, is providing ongoing support to economic activity that will likely be augmented by planned rebuilding in the hurricane-affected areas. The cumulative rise in energy and other costs has the potential to add to inflation pressures; however, core inflation has been relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain contained.
 The committee perceives that with appropriate monetary policy action, the upside and downside risks to the attainment of both sustainable growth and price stability should be kept roughly equal. With underlying inflation expected to be contained, the committee believes that policy accommodation can be removed at a pace that is likely to be measured. Nonetheless, the committee will respond to changes in economic prospects as needed to fulfill its obligation to maintain price stability.
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Alan Greenspan, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Roger W. Ferguson Jr.; Richard W. Fisher; Donald L. Kohn; Michael H. Moskow; Mark W. Olson; Anthony M. Santomero; and Gary H. Stern. 
 In a related action, the board of governors unanimously approved a 25-basis-point increase in the discount rate, to 5 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); HURRICANES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (91%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (66%); NEW YORK, USA (64%); GEORGIA, USA (50%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



21 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Video Games Are Facing Soft Demand

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
Electronic Arts yesterday became the second major video game maker this week to warn that it was seeing soft demand from retailers as it heads into the holiday season.
 A competitor, Take Two Interactive, told investors on Monday that results for its fiscal fourth quarter would miss previous projections, in part because orders from retailers have slowed. Take Two's stock plunged $3.12, or 15 percent, to close at $17.53 yesterday, a drop that analysts said was also tied to the delayed release of new games and disappointing financial performance. 
Electronic Arts, which is based in Redwood City, Calif., made its comments yesterday during an earnings call with investors in which it reported second-quarter results that exceeded Wall Street analysts' estimates but that were down sharply from a year ago.
 Electronic Arts reported second-quarter sales of $675 million, down from $716 million in the period a year earlier. The company said profits were 15 cents a share, a drop from 31 cents a share a year ago. 
 The results this year still exceeded estimates of Wall Street analysts, in part because Electronic Arts released a version of its Fifa '06 soccer game one quarter ahead of schedule in Europe. Its shares rose in after-hours trading, after the announcement was made, on a day when they had fallen almost 2 percent, to $55.79, in regular trading.
 Warren Jenson, Electronic Arts' chief financial and administrative officer, said in an interview that overall demand in Europe was strong but that demand for orders from retailers in North America appeared soft during October. He also said that he felt the holiday season would still be strong for video game companies.
 ''You will see a healthy holiday season,'' he said, noting that recent softness could be related to hurricanes and high gas prices rather than lasting economic issues.
 At the same time, Electronic Arts revised downward its revenue guidance for its full fiscal year. It projected full-year sales of $3.25 billion to $3.4 billion, down from an earlier estimate of $3.3 billion to $3.4 billion.
 The video game industry is in a lull as it waits for the release of the next generation of consoles. The first of those consoles comes out on Nov. 22, when Microsoft introduces the xBox 360, to be followed in the next year by new machines from Sony and Nintendo.
 The problems for Take Two Interactive, maker of the hit franchise Grand Theft Auto, are as much peculiar to the company as they are related to the industry over all, said Mike Hickey, an analyst with Janco Partners, an investment banking firm. Mr. Hickey, who lowered his rating on the stock yesterday to accumulate from buy, said that the company needed to start meeting its release date schedule for new titles.
 Take Two, which is based in New York, announced on Monday that it would earn 53 cents to 56 cents a share in fiscal 2005, down from earlier estimates of 85 cents to 90 cents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SOCCER (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); WEATHER (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (92%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (85%); NINTENDO CO LTD (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION INTERNATIONALE DE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (92%); TTWO (NASDAQ) (85%); 7974 (TSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) EUROPE (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



22 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Taking The Future For a Drive; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1591 words

HEADLINE: California Family Tests Honda's Fuel Cell Car

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
You would never guess that Jon Spallino drives what is probably the most expensive car in this city known for automotive excess. Or that he is the world's most technologically advanced commuter.
 ''When the cars pull up to me, the Porsches and the Bentleys and all that, I just sort of say, well, that's nice, but for what this costs I could buy 10 of those,'' said Mr. Spallino, while driving up Interstate 405, the freeway from his office in Irvine toward his home in Redondo Beach.
He was at the wheel of his silver Honda FCX, a car worth about $1 million that looks like a cross between a compact -- say, a Volkswagen Golf -- and a cinder block. The FCX is powered by hydrogen fuel cells, the futuristic technology that many automakers see as an eventual solution to the world's energy woes, though its real potential is a subject of vigorous debate inside and outside the auto industry. 
 Mr. Spallino, a 40-year-old executive at a California construction and engineering firm, and his wife, Sandy, have been leasing the FCX for $500 a month since July in one of the more unusual experiments in the auto industry's history. 
 The Spallinos, including daughters Adrianna, 11, and Anna, 9, ''aren't just the first fuel cell family on their block,'' as one Honda ad recently put it. ''They're the first in the world.'' 
 So grandiose is the experiment that Honda has made arrangements with a distributor of hydrogen to have a refueling station built near the Spallinos' house. Not that they can use it. The local fire department, wary of this elemental zeppelin gas, has yet to let the station open. 
 So the car is being refueled at Honda's American headquarters in Torrance. Putting compressed hydrogen in a car sounds more like putting air in a tire than filling up with gas.
 Honda is also working on upgrading an existing station that is near Mr. Spallino's office, and California is financing refueling stations to form what is called a ''hydrogen highway'' in the state. 
 Honda has been a pioneer in bringing advanced technologies, like hybrid electric cars, to consumers. While every major automaker has built a fuel cell prototype, Honda's is the only one that has been crash-tested.
 Why did Honda pick the Spallinos? Mr. Spallino was already one of a few thousand owners of a Civic that runs on natural gas; filling one up is not unlike refueling the FCX. He also lived near the company's headquarters, and its refueling station. And the normality of the Spallino family appealed to the company, which wanted to see how the vehicle held up under the stresses of family driving. 
 ''I use it for everyday life,'' said Sandy Spallino, 40, who also drives a Ford Taurus station wagon. ''I go to the market in it, I take the girls to school in it, I take them to soccer, just little one-mile jaunts here and there.''
 Ben Knight, a vice president for research and development at Honda, said making the Spallinos pay to be guinea pigs was done to make them more critical.
 ''The feedback from these consumers will be very astute,'' he said, adding, ''an individual that is paying out of their own pocket for a vehicle will be very conscious of the value received, and the vehicle limitations.''
 Fuel cells have been around since the 1800's; they were used to provide internal power for the Apollo spacecraft, as well as drinkable water for the astronauts. Cars powered by fuel cells are electric cars that do not rely on batteries, but instead generate their own electricity. Fuel cells combine hydrogen and oxygen from the air in a chemical reaction, with water vapor as their only emission, at least from the tailpipe. 
 If that sounds utopian, many think fuel cells are ill-suited to power cars. 
 ''We're either talking several decades or never,'' said Joseph J. Romm, an assistant energy secretary during the Clinton administration, referring to the likelihood of fuel cells' supplanting internal combustion engines in cars. Though Mr. Romm pushed for financing of hydrogen research in the mid-1990's, he has since become deeply skeptical of its prospects, to the point that last year he published a book titled ''The Hype About Hydrogen.''
 General Motors is most bullish on the technology. 
 ''We're going to prove to ourselves and the world that a fuel cell propulsion system can go head to head with the internal combustion engine,'' said Lawrence D. Burns, G.M.'s vice president in charge of research and development.
 He said that by 2010, G.M. will have designed a fuel cell car that can go as far on a full tank and is as durable as a gasoline car. Some financial analysts are skeptical that G.M. will have even staved off bankruptcy by then. 
 Honda comes down somewhere between Mr. Romm and Mr. Burns.
 ''We see this, right now, as the most promising technology to lower greenhouse gas,'' Mr. Knight said. He added, though, that it was ''too hard to put a date on'' the timing for large-scale production. 
 Honda's experiment started cryptically, when an executive called Jon Spallino last year and kept him on the phone for half an hour without mentioning fuel cells. Mr. Spallino was not surprised to be quizzed, because his natural-gas Civic made him a likely target of consumer research. 
 ''I said, O.K., this is an extensive survey, but there you go,'' said Mr. Spallino, who has the laid-back demeanor of a lifelong Southern Californian. 
 He was more perplexed when the same man called him back a few weeks later with another round of questions. Then the Honda executive asked him out for breakfast at a local Chili's restaurant, and the questions kept coming about his Civic. Why do you drive it? What do you like about it? What don't you like about it? 
 ''It's like some kind of James Bond thing,'' Mr. Spallino recalled thinking. ''I told him, 'There has to be something else here; I've told you everything I could possibly tell you.' '' 
 Finally, the executive leveled with him. ''Very, very confidentially,'' he told him, ''I want to talk to you about trying out a fuel cell vehicle.''
 In his State of the Union address in 2003, President Bush said there would be ''a new national commitment'' to developing hydrogen technology, which would ''make our air significantly cleaner, and our country much less dependent on foreign sources of energy.''
 Environmentalists like the promise of the fuel cell, but see it being used as an excuse for not toughening fuel economy regulations more aggressively.
 ''It's a long-term hope, but in the meantime we want to use the technology available today to make clean hybrids,'' said Daniel F. Becker, the top global warming strategist at the Sierra Club.
 In the FCX, long stacks of the waferlike cells are housed under the passenger compartment, giving it a high ride, like a sport utility vehicle. It weighs in at nearly two tons, because of the heft of the technology, including added batteries. Despite having just 107 horsepower, it accelerates briskly, a feature of electric cars. 
 So far, the Spallinos give it a thumbs up. ''You're not really making any sacrifice,'' said Mr. Spallino, in Ralph Lauren sunglasses and a Hawaiian-style shirt with his company's emblem. As a Californian, his interest in alternative fuels was as much practical as anything else. On traffic-choked California roads, such vehicles get coveted access to high-occupancy-vehicle lanes. He is concerned about the environment, but not militantly so.
 ''I'm, I would say, right of center politically,'' Mr. Spallino said. ''I don't like our dependence on foreign oil. I think it causes us to do a lot of stupid things as a country,'' he said, explaining his decision to start using alternative fuel cars.
 But ''the H.O.V. lane is a big bonus, sure,'' he said.
 Will a day ever come when you can roll up to a Honda dealer and order an FCX? The hurdles could be insurmountable. First, the decimal point on the price would have to move over to the left by a couple of digits. That would be no small feat. Then there is the question of figuring out how to store hydrogen in the vehicle -- most likely either as a highly compressed gas in onboard tanks or in a spongelike solid state. None of these are ready for widespread use. Then the fuel cells would need to be as durable and long-lasting as conventional engines.
 That's not to mention the big undertaking of reconfiguring the nation's gas stations to dispense hydrogen, or figuring out how to create and ship it.
 ''When you start piling miracle upon miracle, it's just really hard to believe,'' Mr. Romm said. 
 On the positive side, hydrogen can be generated in a number of different ways. It could be a solution to issues like oil dependency, and possibly cheaper than gasoline in the future. Fuel cell cars are not truly emission-free, because it takes energy, and emissions, to create pure hydrogen. But they would be an improvement in terms of global warming and air pollution, depending on how the hydrogen was produced. 
 One mental challenge to overcome would be the image in people's minds of a certain exploding airship filled with hydrogen, though automakers contend that fuel cell cars would be no more flammable than cars filled with gasoline. 
 Mr. Spallino says he hears about this a lot. 
 ''Everybody says, 'You're driving the Hindenburg,' '' he said, adding, ''I assume that Honda's not going to give me a car that's going to blow up on me.''

Beyond Gasoline
 Articles in this series are periodically examining alternative technologies for powering cars. Previous articles can be found online at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Honda FCX leased by Jon Spallino, center above, gets the hydrogen needed to power its fuel cells from a station at Honda's American headquarters in Torrance, Calif., top. (Photographs by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Jon and Sandy Spallino, with daughters Anna, left, and Adrianna. Honda wanted to see how the FCX held up under family driving. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (92%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (88%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (94%)

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (94%); 7267 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



23 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: In Council Race, Surgeon Takes On Former Miller Aide

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
As Joel M. Zinberg asked voters along York Avenue for their support on a recent morning, he was stopped by a woman who asked him the question that has become a staple of his campaign:
 Why would a surgeon want to be a city councilman?
 Indeed, Dr. Zinberg, the Republican candidate in a City Council district on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, has a most unusual resume for someone seeking public office. He is not only a physician who has been a surgeon for more than 16 years. Dr. Zinberg, 49, is also a lawyer who has been on the faculty of the Columbia University Law School. 
 His campaign has created something of a buzz in the Fifth Council District, in part because Dr. Zinberg has highlighted the fact that he is not a professional politician. Another reason the race is being closely watched is that he is running for the seat that has been held for the last nine years by Gifford Miller, the City Council speaker. And his Democratic opponent is Jessica Lappin, who was Mr. Miller's chief of staff.
 Mr. Miller, who was barred from running for re-election to the Council this year because of term limits, ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination for mayor.
 The race is also reflective of a running theme in competitive Council contests this year: Dr. Zinberg is seeking to rise on the coattails of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, whose endorsement is touted at every turn by the Zinberg campaign. Meanwhile, Ms. Lappin shies away from any discussion about whether she supports the mayor or Fernando Ferrer, the Democratic candidate, in the mayoral race.
 What Ms. Lappin will discuss eagerly are her credentials from working not just with Mr. Miller, but also in such civic and advocacy organizations as the Sanctuary for Families, a citywide group that provides shelter and other services for female victims of domestic violence.
 ''I have been working in this community for the last seven years, and not just professionally,'' said Ms. Lappin, 30. ''My opponent has tried to portray me as a career public servant. But when I talk about the issues that are important to this district, I have already been working to tackle them.''
 However, Dr. Zinberg campaigns on the theme that the last thing the City Council needs is another member whose resume offers little outside city government.
 ''I think it's not healthy to have a Council where the composition is people whose sole qualification is that they are politicians or have been aides to politicians,'' he said. ''I come from a background that indicates that I'm not locked into the conventional political thinking. We need people who think out of the box and have original ideas.''
 He said his own community involvement was extensive and that he had sponsored breast-cancer screenings and had written a proposal to reform Medicaid. His medical background, he says, will also enable him to aid the city's emergency planning.
 Nevertheless, both candidates have similar positions on a host of issues. For example, both advocate completing the Second Avenue subway line, and they stress the need for more express bus and even ferry service in the district.
 Although Ms. Lappin once supported a plan to reopen a marine waste transfer station in the district for recycling only, she has since taken the view, also supported by Dr. Zinberg, that the station, where trucks place garbage onto barges, should not be opened for any use.
 The district, which includes the far East Side of Manhattan from roughly 49th Street to 91st Street as well as Roosevelt Island, once reliably elected Republican officials.
 But a Republican has not represented the district in the Council since Charles Millard resigned nearly a decade ago to become the president of the Economic Development Corporation in the Giuliani administration. Still, the Fifth Council District has voted heavily for Republicans, particularly Mayor Bloomberg and Mr. Giuliani.
 Dr. Zinberg said he was hopeful that voters would support him in part because of his background, and also because of Mr. Bloomberg's popularity in the district.
 But Ms. Lappin pointed out that her opponent had not used the word Republican on his campaign literature. ''That's another difference between us,'' she said. ''Nowhere will he ever say that he is a Republican. I'm proud of what my party stands for.'' Ms. Lappin has been endorsed by Democrats throughout Manhattan and beyond, including United States Senators Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 Asked whether she supported the Democratic candidate in the mayoral race, she said: ''I'm not supporting anyone for mayor. I'm a first-time candidate in a competitive race, and I'm focused on my own campaign.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jessica Lappin, the Democratic candidate, spoke to voters on Monday at First Avenue and 72nd Street.
 Joel M. Zinberg, a Republican running in the Fifth Council District, at 79th Street and York Avenue. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); TERM LIMITS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); CANCER (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (67%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (50%); BREAST CANCER (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



24 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Just a Drill, But Flu Shots Were Real, And Popular

BYLINE: By SHADI RAHIMI

 BODY:
The city's health department offered free flu vaccines yesterday to anyone who showed up at a clinic in Chelsea. It was an experiment to simulate what might happen during a major outbreak, and the answer seemed to be: plenty of waiting.
 A couple of hundred people were waiting when the clinic opened at 7:30 a.m. at Covenant House, the children's shelter on West 17th Street. Although precise figures were not tabulated, nearly 4,000 people were vaccinated, and the operation was extended 40 minutes beyond the 9 p.m. closing time last night. 
 Many waited two to three hours -- or more -- for a shot.
 They were from all walks of life, the healthy and sick, elderly people brought by caretakers, parents with children in tow, the unemployed and people in business suits. While some said it went smoothly, others doubted the city's ability to handle a pandemic.
 Gene Geisert, a 78-year-old Manhattan resident who had been waiting for two hours, pointed to the few hundred people seated around him inside the sweltering auditorium at Covenant House. ''There's no pandemic, and it's absolutely jammed in here,'' he said. ''It's going fairly well for what they're doing now. But in an emergency, I just don't know.''
 The commissioner of the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, said during a news conference yesterday morning that a flu pandemic would present ''an enormous challenge'' for the city. The clinic was conducted to test how quickly a large number of people could be vaccinated during an emergency, he said. 
 The department aimed to administer 250 shots per hour but was moving at a much slower pace earlier yesterday morning because there was ''more interest than anticipated,'' Dr. Frieden said.
 Fear about the bird flu that has killed dozens of people in Asia is driving many New Yorkers to get flu shots this season, Dr. Frieden said, although there is in fact no vaccine that protects against the H5N1 strain of avian influenza. 
 Two hours after the Chelsea clinic opened, only about 300 vaccines had been administered, Dr. Frieden said. By 1 p.m., about 50 people were lined up for tickets and forms outside Covenant House while a few hundred others waited inside. By that time, nearly 1,000 people had received their shots.
 By 3 p.m., the clinic had moved into the larger gymnasium next to the auditorium to accommodate more workers. A staff member in the gym noted that the clinic was behind schedule but indicated the rows of workers at tables checking paperwork and giving injections: ''These people are working their fingers to the bone.'' 
 Later, the pace picked up, with workers administering about 350 shots per hour, officials said.
 People seeking shots gave different reasons for putting up with the wait. Until now, public clinics had limited vaccines to the elderly or people with serious health problems. And while the health department has directed those with insurance to private doctors, some who were waiting said their doctors had no vaccine available.
 Most people occupied their time by reading newspapers or books, listening to music, sleeping in their seats, studying the numbers on their tickets or complaining about the wait to the people next to them. With other appointments pending, some left in frustration, giving up their tickets to others. Others left to run errands or have lunch, returning an hour or more later to learn their numbers had yet to be called.
 The 563rd person in line, Gloria Rosado, a 29-year-old Manhattan resident, said she made it to her Upper East Side bank and back with plenty of time left to wait. 
 Ms. Rosado said she came to the clinic because her doctor told her he had not received any vaccine. 
 ''I always get sick,'' she said. ''If you're a betting person, you can bet on that. I'm terrified of getting shots, but I don't want to get sick. The last time I got the flu, it hit me like a Mack truck.''
 Ms. Rosado was among many others at the clinic who did not suffer from serious health problems, but wanted to avoid the flu.
 For example, Kaylie Keesling, a 21-year-old Brooklyn Heights resident, said she got the flu last year and was not able to attend school or go to work for two weeks. 
 Ms. Keesling, a college student whose Florida health insurance company does not extend her coverage to New York, arrived at the clinic at 1:10 p.m. and waited in a line outside, behind several dozen people. ''I expected to wait,'' she said with a shrug. ''Nothing is free, and when it is, people come running.''
 Others were less patient. Nieves Mejia, 60, of Chelsea, left the auditorium to go for a walk, and then to get coffee. She waited two hours to get her shot from the free clinic because her doctor had also told her that he did not have any vaccine. 
 ''It's terrible,'' said Ms. Mejia, who received her shot at 10:25 a.m. ''I didn't expect anything like this.''
 By holding the clinic, the department aimed to test its operations, including how seamlessly it can redeploy personnel, and to collect suggestions through evaluation forms about how to improve its clinics, said a deputy commissioner, Dr. Isaac Weisfuse. 
 The availability of the vaccine has improved this year compared with the last, he said, when there were widespread shortages.


GRAPHIC: Photo: More than 4,000 New Yorkers waited for hours yesterday for free flu shots in a trial city program. The wait was so long at times that some people left to run errands and returned in time to receive a shot. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); VACCINES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (89%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (71%); AGING (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (54%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: COVENANT HOUSE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



25 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: A Little Easier Getting Around Downtown

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
There is a U-turn at the end of the tunnel.
 And broader sidewalks. And oak trees. And granite walls instead of concrete barriers.
Those, at least, are consolations offered by the State Transportation Department for the clamorous uprooting of an area around Battery Park caused by the $76.4 million, 20-month reconstruction of the southernmost blocks of West Street-Route 9A.
 ''Right now, people see it as a nuisance,'' said John P. Cahill, the top downtown development official and Gov. George E. Pataki's chief of staff. ''People are going to wake up and realize that this is going to be a marked improvement in the quality of life.'' 
 The first obvious milestone is the scheduled opening today of a new U-turn lane over the portal to the Battery Park Underpass. This lane and an adjoining kidney-shaped pedestrian island were created by extending the tunnel roof about 80 feet.
 The new lane will allow southbound traffic on Route 9A to turn north and get to the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel and nearby blocks without crossing two intersections on Battery Place. Separating these movements will untangle a mixing bowl where ''even we get a little confused,'' said Tim Gilchrist, the director of downstate transportation strategy.
 An even more noticeable improvement should become apparent in May with the completion of a 9,600-square-foot teardrop-shaped landscaped plaza and seating area in front of the landmark Whitehall Building at 17 Battery Place, replacing a parking lot.
 ''Our charge from the governor was to create a pedestrian-friendly environment,'' Mr. Gilchrist said. That also means widening sidewalks on West Street and building a tree-lined promenade and bicycle path in Battery Park City, from West Thames Street to Battery Place, with small plazas at each intersection.
 ''We are trying to unify the east and west sides of the street,'' said Heather T. Sporn, deputy director of the Route 9A project for the Transportation Department.
 While it may not rank with Nixon in China or the Golden Spike, this was a formidable east-west chasm to close.
 Work had to be coordinated with the city and with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which is expanding the South Ferry subway terminal. It also had to be staged around electrical transformer vaults, power lines, water mains, gas mains, street lights and fire hydrants. ''To make all these small things work, you've got to move a million things,'' said Patrick J. Prancl, the engineer in charge.
 The work has largely cut off the Whitehall Building from its surroundings.
 ''It's been very difficult, to say the least, getting home deliveries,'' said Jack Zito, resident manager of the Ocean apartments in the upper floors of the Whitehall Building. (Offices are on the lower floors.) ''Car access has sometimes been limited to zero. As the project proceeded, the area in front of the building became a storage area.''
 The Amish Market in the Whitehall Building also saw a large drop in the number of people doing substantial marketing after the parking spaces were eliminated.
 That said, Mr. Zito added that transportation officials and the construction contractor, Conti Enterprises, had responded to complaints. He also said the new plaza would make the whole area feel more residential, keep traffic a bit farther away from the entrance and create a parklike atmosphere for what is, after all, the building's front yard.
 The Skyscraper Museum at 39 Battery Place is awaiting the end of its isolation on ''the other side of an impossible obstacle course,'' said Carol Willis, the director. As for silver linings, she said: ''I greet with great delight the opening of any large public space in front of the Whitehall Building. I hope we can get to it.''
 The next step, beginning in 2007, will be reconstructing the highway from Thames Street to Chambers Street, including the 900-foot portion alongside the World Trade Center site. This segment was so near completion once before that a ribbon-cutting ceremony was scheduled. In October 2001.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John P. Cahill, the top downtown development official, visited the construction at the southern end of West Street on Oct. 21. He predicted that the project would produce ''a marked improvement in the quality of life.'' (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (90%); GOVERNORS (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CITY LIFE (75%); FERRIES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); CITIES (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



26 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Senators Concerned on Uzbekistan Party Leader

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
Echoing international concern about the arrest and suspected abuse of an opposition leader in Uzbekistan, two American senators introduced a resolution on Tuesday calling on the Uzbek government to ensure that the detained politician is treated fairly and in accordance with his human rights. 
 The resolution, introduced by Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader, and Senator Richard G. Lugar, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, was the first strong public sign of American concern about the treatment of the Uzbek opposition leader, Sanjar Umarov, who was arrested in Tashkent, the Uzbek capital, on Oct 22.
Mr. Umarov, 49, a wealthy businessman who is accused of embezzlement and tax evasion, has been seen by his lawyer only once since his arrest, and was naked and uncommunicative in his cell, the lawyer said. Mr. Umarov's family has said it fears he has been tortured and drugged.
 As chairman of the Sunshine Uzbekistan coalition, Mr. Umarov had been campaigning for social and economic changes in the repressive Central Asian state. 
 His activities presented a rare public challenge to President Islam A. Karimov, who has been accused of ordering a bloody crackdown after a prison break and an antigovernment demonstration in May in Andijon. Survivors say hundreds of people, most of them unarmed, were killed.
 The crackdown, and Uzbekistan's refusal to investigate it credibly, was met with international condemnation and sanctions by the European Union. Uzbek relations with the United States have soured, and the government of Mr. Karimov has ordered the Pentagon to vacate a military airfield it has used since 2001, effective in 2006.
 The fate of Mr. Umarov was first hinted at in a Soviet-style denunciation published in a newspaper on Aug. 4. An article called him ''a sly werewolf'' and portrayed him as a cunning and greedy businessman. 
 ''He worked with one goal in mind: personal enrichment, even if it meant violating the law,'' the article read. ''As much as he tries, there's only going to be one ending. Falling from such height will be painful.'' 
 Mr. Umarov sued the paper for defamation. He was arrested before the case was fully heard.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LIBEL & SLANDER (78%); TORTURE (78%); LAWYERS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TAX FRAUD (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); EMBEZZLEMENT (70%); TAX LAW (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); RELIGION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: DICK LUGAR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); TASHKENT, UZBEKISTAN (58%) UNITED STATES (94%); UZBEKISTAN (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



27 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Jobs and Joblessness on the Gulf Coast

 BODY:
The White House announced last week that it would reinstate the Davis-Bacon Act, the law that guarantees that construction workers on federally financed projects be paid at least the minimum prevailing wage. In an executive proclamation shortly after Hurricane Katrina, President Bush had revoked the law's wage protections for workers in storm-struck parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida. Let's hope this reversal is the start of a trend because more wrongs need righting. 
 The Labor Department has not yet restored the rule -- also suspended shortly after Katrina -- requiring federal contractors on hurricane-related projects to have a plan for hiring women, minorities, Vietnam veterans and the disabled. And Congress has not yet provided adequate unemployment benefits for some 400,000 people who lost their jobs to Katrina. Even a recent $400 million grant to help Louisiana with unemployment claims is less than half of the projected need for the coming year.
Unemployment pay from the states averages $270 a week nationwide. But in Louisiana, it's $192, and in Mississippi it's $169, the lowest in the country. Federal unemployment aid, generally for the self-employed, is no better. It all adds up to peanuts for the unemployed, who, in many cases, have lost everything and who are scattered around the country in places where costs are higher than in their home states. 
 The federal government must increase both state and federal unemployment benefits to a level that's closer to the national average, and increase their duration, which is now 26 weeks. Widespread unemployment from Katrina is as much a national disaster as the destruction of infrastructure. The afflicted states simply can't afford to foot the whole bill -- and shouldn't have to. 
 In the months since Katrina, plans to increase unemployment aid have flitted across Congress's legislative radar screen, only to vanish as Republican lawmakers prepare to push a $70 billion tax cut package, much of it to benefit millionaire investors. As they did with the Davis-Bacon law, government leaders have to turn back from their wrongheaded pursuits and do the right things instead -- and, preferably, soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); HURRICANES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); TAX LAW (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); WOMEN (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); VETERANS (54%); TAX RELIEF (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



28 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Drought Deepens Poverty, Starving More Africans 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: CHIKWAWA, Malawi 

 BODY:
It has barely rained for a year, the scant corn harvest of six months ago is long exhausted and the regional hospital here is again filling with near-starving children -- 18 admissions in August, 30 in September, 23 by mid-October. 
 And what people here routinely call the hunger season -- the season with no corn -- has barely begun.
 ''We used to have six, seven children in the unit,'' said Emily Sarina, the district nursing officer. ''We expect the number to increase by December, because that's when the hunger is critical.'' 
 Malawi is the epicenter of Africa's second hunger crisis in five months, and the second in which the developed world has responded with painful slowness. 
 Drought is only the surface explanation for why millions of Malawians and other southern Africans are hungry. The real reason is poverty, aggravated by regional shortages and even Hurricane Katrina, which have helped drive up the price of corn, the regional staple, to more than double last year's. 
 As a result, more than 4.6 million of Malawi's 12 million citizens need donated food to fend off malnutrition until the next harvest begins in April. In Zimbabwe, at least four million more need emergency food aid. Zambia's government has issued an urgent appeal for food, saying 1.7 million are hungry; 850,000 need food in Mozambique, 500,000 in Lesotho and at least 300,000 in Swaziland.
 The World Food Program, which will feed most of the needy, has asked the developed world for $400 million toward that goal. It remains $165 million short. 
 The United States' contribution, $48 million worth of corn bought from American farmers, comes by ship and will not arrive until late this year at the earliest.
 Much like July's crisis on southern Niger's narrow band of grasslands, the food shortage in southern Africa is taking its toll. Growing malnutrition has led to scattered reports of disease-related deaths among young children weakened by hunger. 
 That said, problems here are not yet as acute as they are in Niger, where thousands of malnourished children still flock to treatment centers, months after international aid began arriving.
 This region's emergency, however, is far larger -- more than 12 million hungry people, versus 2.5 million in Niger. And if the death toll is likely not to be as high, the suffering here is no less real.
 ''I went to a village today in rural Zambia where there was a lady eating some kind of bark, in boiled water,'' Michael Huggins, the World Food Program's regional spokesman, said in a telephone interview. ''In three years in southern Africa, I've heard a lot about that sort of thing. But I'd never seen it until today.''
 In Chikwawa, a district of about 400,000 in southern Malawi, half the population was already hungry in May, when the last harvest netted only about two-fifths of the nation's corn requirement. The British charity Oxfam estimated then that the district's needy were getting about 30 percent of their food requirements.
 Six months later, many are calling this Malawi's worst hunger crisis since 1993, when drought destroyed nearly half of the corn crop. ''At this point, most of the households in Malawi have run out of food, particularly in the south,'' Schuyler Thorup, the Malawi representative for Catholic Relief Services, said in a telephone interview. ''They're having to rely exclusively on the market'' for corn and other staple foods.
 But few can afford to pay market prices. Just 500 miles south of Malawi, South Africa is sitting atop a surplus of five million metric tons of corn from this year's bumper harvest. But it is mostly out of reach for both Malawi's government and its people, 60 percent of whom survive on a dollar a day or less.
 The same is true of most of Malawi's needy neighbors. War wrecked Mozambique's economy; socialism and plunging copper prices reduced Zambia to penury; Zimbabwe's economy collapsed after the government seized its richest farms, which were owned by whites. 
 In Malawi, 20 years of shifting political rule and economic policies have turned an already poor nation into a basket case. The AIDS pandemic -- the rate of infection is about 15 percent among all adults, but perhaps 25 percent in Chikwawa -- has cut down family breadwinners and left 900,000 children without one or both parents. 
 Most Malawians survive on plots of a couple of acres, often lacking even oxen for plowing. Irrigation is unheard of, leaving them dependent on good rains for survival.
 Lately, rains have been spotty. There were severe hunger crises in 2002 and 2003, and this year's disaster was brought on when good rains in late 2004 dried up in 2005, just as the corn crop was ripening. 
 But even in good years, Malawians are incapable of feeding themselves. A recent report by the United States Agency for International Development said the nation ''is now in a near constant state of food shortage, with persistently high levels of nutritional deprivation.'' Most Malawians cannot finance even a minimally adequate diet. Half of all children are stunted -- and 40 percent of those are severely stunted, the marker of deep, prolonged malnutrition. 
 Corn prices are at the root of this year's crisis. In the past, after most poor harvests, Malawians have bought cheap corn from traders in Mozambique, Zambia or Zimbabwe. This year's spotty rains caused a regional shortage, driving up prices in Malawi's markets. In mid-October last year, a kilogram of maize in Chikwawa, 2.2 pounds, cost about 13 cents. This year, it cost nearly 32 cents. 
 Even Hurricane Katrina has worsened matters. When the storm closed New Orleans to shipping, depriving Japan of its normal source of corn, the Japanese turned to South Africa, and in weeks the price of South African corn in Malawi jumped nearly 20 percent.
 For months, the charities and international donor groups that effectively keep Malawi afloat operated on ''Scenario 1,'' projecting that corn prices would remain affordable for most, and that the destitute would need only 272,000 metric tons of donated corn. 
 Donors have pledged almost that much. But now, with prices skyrocketing, the number of Malawians who cannot afford food is rising as well. 
 ''Scenario 2'' calls for finding 413,000 metric tons of donated food, at considerably higher prices. 
 Especially in the south, where harvests were the worst, high prices have brought growing malnutrition and sometimes unrest at sites where donors try to distribute too little food to too many desperate people.
 A recent visit to the rehabilitation center at the regional hospital in Chikwawa City, a hub of about 10,000 people, made it clear why.
 Camped on the sidewalk in the unit's square courtyard, 29-year-old Samson Hanock watched his 2-year-old son, Ben, while his wife, Ester, 20, cradled their newborn son, born at the unit in September. Ben was brought there from Mtobwe village, about two hours distant, with malnutrition and severe anemia. 
 Mr. Hanock is a gardener. Working six days a week, four weeks a month, brings a salary of $6.65, from which his employer deducts $5.85 to buy the Hanocks a 110-pound bag of corn meal. 
 Mr. Hanock spends the remaining 80 cents on sugar. ''I bake some sweets that I ask my wife to sell,'' he said. ''And with that, we get some money to buy soap and other things.''
 Across the courtyard, Severia Karunga looked after Precia Yaka, a somber 9-year-old orphan from Badueza, 90 minutes away by car, who had come to the unit in July with malnutrition, malaria, edema and, it turned out, tuberculosis.
 Precia's father died four years ago. Her mother died at 21, a month after Precia arrived here. Ms. Karunga, Precia's aunt, now cares for Precia, her brother and her own seven children. She lives with her mother, who cares for two other orphaned children.
 ''My husband is divorcing me because he isn't happy that I am caring for this child,'' she said, gesturing toward Precia. ''He left last month.''
 Mother, daughter and 11 children, ages 6 to 18, get by on less than $50 a month. Most comes from the $9 weekly salary the mother draws from a charity's self-help program. The family has an eight-acre garden, ''but this year,'' Ms. Karunga said, ''I don't think I will be able to cultivate it, because I am spending all my time at this hospital.''
 Nationally, admissions of malnourished children to Malawi's 95 nutritional rehabilitation centers were up 15 percent in September from last year. Continuing increases are all but certain. Most children will spend a few weeks in rehabilitation, said Ms. Sarina, the district nursing officer. Then, healthy once more, they will be sent home. 
 And the cycle will begin anew.
 ''The problem,'' Ms. Sarina said, ''is that when they go back, there's nothing to depend on.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Scant harvests in Malawi are forcing Dayson Muyaya, left, to pay double the ''official'' price for scarce corn. (Photo by Jeffrey Barbee for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Precia Yaka, a 9-year-old orphan, is one of 11 children who live with her aunt and a great-aunt on less than $50 a month.
 Dola Sandram has come to a feeding center in Chikwawa, Malawi, to register her 2-year-old, Fredson, left. Such centers report a sharp increase in the number of children being brought in on the edge of malnutrition. (Photographs by Jeffrey Barbee for The New York Times)(pg. A8)Map of Malawi highlighting Chikwawa: Chikwawa is at the center of a food crisis afflicting six nations. (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STARVATION (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); DROUGHT (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MALNUTRITION (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); CHILDREN (77%); NURSES & NURSING (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); HURRICANES (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (63%); INTERVIEWS (61%); HURRICANE KATRINA (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAWI (96%); AFRICA (95%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (93%); NIGER (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ZAMBIA (92%); SWAZILAND (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); LESOTHO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



29 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: The Two Koreas Agree to Field a Unified Olympic Team in 2008

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO, Wednesday, Nov. 2 

 BODY:
Moving closer toward their longtime goal of fielding a unified Olympic team, South and North Korea agreed in principle on Tuesday to have their athletes compete together at the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing.
 In another sign of reconciliation on the Korean Peninsula, officials from the two countries issued a short statement agreeing to a unified team after a three-hour meeting in Macao, where Korean athletes were competing in the East Asian games.
 The Koreas also announced that they had agreed to compete as one team at the Asian Games in Doha, Qatar, next year. 
 ''We have agreed to have a unified team, but we haven't agreed on the details yet,'' Baek Sung Il, a spokesman for South Korea's Olympic Committee, said in a telephone interview from Macao. ''We have to work out the details on how to select our athletes and how to train them. It's not something we can agree on at once. But we will send unified teams to the Asian Games and to the Olympics.''
 Mr. Baek said that the two sides had verbally agreed during the 2004 Athens Olympics to work toward unifying their teams and have held talks on the subject since then.
 After a meeting in September on combining their teams for the Asian Games went smoothly, South Korean officials approached their North Korean counterparts about the Beijing Olympics during their meeting in Macao, Mr. Baek said.
 ''When we suggested it, they immediately agreed to our suggestion,'' Mr. Baek said.
 According to the three-paragraph agreement, in addition to sending unified teams to the two games, the two sides said that they would meet on Dec. 7 to iron out the details of selection and training in Kaesong, a North Korean city just north of the demilitarized zone. The vice chairman of each side's Olympic committee will head the December meeting.
 The two Koreas, divided for more than a half-century, have tried to dispatch unified teams as far back as the 1964 Tokyo Olympics. They also tried for the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics and 1990 Beijing Asian Games, according to the South Korean news media. The North demanded that half the events of the 1988 Seoul Olympics be transferred to its capital, Pyongyang. They succeeded only in fielding a unified team for a table tennis and youth soccer tournament in the early 1990's, according to South Korean news accounts.
 The agreement on the Asian Games and Olympics could, of course, founder on the details. Still, it comes at a time when the two Koreas, fierce cold-war enemies, have moved rapidly toward reconciliation since Kim Dae Jung, then the South Korean president, and the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, met in Pyongyang in June 2000.
 Neither side talks of actual reunification of the peninsula in the near future. South Korea, fearful that sudden reunification would damage its economy and lower its hard-won standard of living, seeks to engage the North and shrink the economic gap between the sides before aiming at reunification decades from now.
 The North is also believed to be against immediate reunification, because its leaders, like those of the former East Germany, would be likely to lose their positions to their richer cousins.
 But there have been concrete and symbolic steps toward reconciliation in recent years. An industrial park opened early this year in Kaesong, with South Korean financing and North Korean labor, and factories there produce everything from pots to parts for semiconductor chips.
 A well-known resort, Kumgang Mountain, in eastern North Korea near the DMZ, attracts thousands of South Korean tourists a week. With Kaesong and Kumgang Mountain as destinations, South Koreans travel north every day through the once impenetrable DMZ, though North Koreans are still not allowed to visit the South.
 Since the start of South Korea's ''sunshine policy'' toward the North, athletes from the two nations have marched together at the opening ceremonies of the 2000 Sydney Olympics and the Asian Games. Athletes marched under the name of Korea, instead of their countries' official names, and a flag showing an undivided peninsula. Instead of national anthems, ''Arirang,'' a traditional love song popular on both sides of the DMZ was played.
 Mr. Baek said it was likely that the two sides would hew to that pattern in the Asian and Olympic games, though neither side had addressed those issues yet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (94%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SOCCER (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); YOUTH SPORTS (73%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TOURNAMENTS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (73%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); MACAO (94%); CHINA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); QATAR (92%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



30 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: China's Little Green Book

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
There are only about 60 gold-standard green buildings in the world -- that is, buildings certified by the U.S. Green Building Council as having been made with the materials and systems that best reduce waste, emissions and energy use. One of those buildings is in Beijing -- China's Ministry of Science and Technology, at 55 Yuyuantan Nanlu Street.
 I toured it the other day with Robert Watson from the Natural Resources Defense Council, who advised China in designing the building. What struck me most was how much stuff in China's greenest building was labeled ''Made in China.'' 
Get used to it. In China, conservation is not a ''personal virtue,'' as Dick Cheney would say. Today it is a necessity. It was so polluted in Beijing the other day you could not make out buildings six blocks away. That's the bad news. Here's the good news: China's leaders and business community know it. They know that as China grows more prosperous, and more Chinese buy homes and cars, it must urgently adopt green technologies; otherwise, it will destroy its environment and its people. Green technology will decide whether China continues on its current growth path or chokes itself to death. So green innovation is starting to mushroom in China.
 And what's the U.S. doing as green technology is emerging as the most important industry of the 21st century? Let's see: the Bush team is telling our manufacturers they don't have to improve auto mileage standards or appliance efficiency, is looking to ease regulations on oil refiners and is rejecting a gas tax that would help shift America to hybrid vehicles.
 We should be doing just the opposite: creating more pressures and incentives so our companies will innovate and dominate the next great industry. You think China is cleaning our clock now with cheap clothing? Wait a decade, when we'll have to import our green technology from Beijing, just as we have to import hybrid motors today from Japan.
 Green China will be much more challenging than Red China. Look around the nine-story Ministry of Science and Technology building. Yes, a lot of cool things here are from Europe, and some are from the U.S. 
 But what about the porous pavement bricks, made of fly ash, a byproduct of coal combustion that allows storm water to flow through and be reabsorbed into the Beijing aquifer? Made in China. The photovoltaic panels that provide 10 percent of the building's electricity from sunlight? Made in China. The solar hot water system? Made in China. The soil substitute in the building's roof garden that is 75 percent lighter than regular dirt and holds three to four times more water per cubic foot? Made in China. The concrete building blocks filled with insulating foam that keeps you warmer in the winter and cooler in the summer? Made in China, by a U.S.-owned company. The water-free urinals? Made for the China market by a U.S.-owned company.
 Jack Perkowski, who runs Asimco Technologies, the huge China-based auto parts maker, told me where this is heading: ''As China moves from the second-largest market to the first in autos the industry here will have to come up with transport that is more affordable, fuel-efficient and environmentally sound.'' 
 As green technologies get adopted here and gain scale -- Mr. Perkowski cited a Chinese auto company now rushing to develop a green diesel engine for passenger cars -- the Chinese will set the standards for the world.
 ''So they will become technology exporters rather than importers,'' he said. And because of the unique needs of China and the fact that it will become the biggest market for any product, the Chinese will ''innovate at their affordability level.'' Once they come up with low-cost solutions that work inside China, they will take them global at China prices.
 The China Daily reported that China's 11th five-year plan, which starts soon, includes a program to sharply reduce China's energy usage per unit of G.D.P. by 2010. ''To hit the target, a huge business potential will be open to investors,'' Zhou Dadi, director of China's top energy research institute, told a forum held by the paper.
 ''China is growing three times as fast as we are,'' Mr. Watson said, ''[so] a lot of innovation is going to happen here, and once it is introduced [on the low-cost China platform] it is going to spread a lot faster. We are not the only source of innovation on the planet. The Japanese and Europeans are here in a big way, and they are giving their stuff away. 
 ''We deserve to lose. We are clutching our past with these tremulous hands, and everyone else is vigorously grasping the future.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN BUILDING (91%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PARTICULATE MATTER (77%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES REGULATION (64%); FUEL TAX (63%); WATER QUALITY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



31 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Drought and Hunger Cause Another African Crisis
Drought and poverty in southern Africa, where millions are in need of food aid, have contributed to the second hunger crisis in five months, and the second in which the developed world has been slow to respond. A1

School for Counterinsurgency 

The top American commander in Iraq, concerned that the military's training must be sharpened in the face of an increasingly flexible and deadly insurgency, has ordered the creation of a new school in Iraq for officers, according to senior military officials. A11

An investigating officer for the American military has recommended that a staff sergeant face a court martial, and possibly a death sentence, for his role in the deaths of two American officers last June, the military announced. A11

Months before the invasion of Iraq, Saddam Hussein tentatively accepted a proposal to go into exile and avert war, but Arab leaders scrapped the deal, unable to reach consensus on it, senior officials in the United Arab Emirates said. A11

Possible Olympic Deal on Koreas
North and South Korea, in what could be a major step toward reconciliation, agreed in principal to form a joint team for the 2006 Asian Games and the 2008 Beijing Olympics, a South Korean Olympic official said. A10

Israel Kills 2 Militants in Gaza
An Israeli airstrike near Gaza City killed a member of Hamas and a member of Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades whom Israel had singled out as a top priority. A11

Strife Flares in Sri Lanka
Political violence is sweeping across the eastern part of Sri Lanka as armed factions vie for supremacy, people are abducted and assassinations occur almost daily. A3

NATIONAL A18-27

White House in Debate On Terrorism Suspects
The Bush administration is embroiled in a sharp internal debate over whether a new set of Defense Department standards for handling terrorism suspects should adopt language from the Geneva Conventions prohibiting ''cruel,'' ''humiliating'' and ''degrading'' treatment, administration officials said. A1

Democrats Courted on Nominee
Facing deep Democratic skepticism over the choice of Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. for the Supreme Court, the Bush administration turned quickly to moderate Democrats who could be crucial to the confirmation as both sides braced for a polarizing fight over Judge Alito's legal views. A1

Billions Sought to Combat Flu
President Bush announced that he would ask Congress for $7.1 billion to prepare the nation for a widespread outbreak of deadly flu. Most of the money would be spent on research and a stockpile of vaccines and anti-viral drugs. A1

DeLay Judge Is Removed
A Texas judge opposed by Representative Tom DeLay as a partisan Democrat was removed from hearing the congressman's money-laundering and conspiracy case after a battle over his impartiality. A18

Special Senate Session on Iraq
Democrats forced the Republican-controlled Senate into an unusual closed session over the administration's use of intelligence to justify the Iraq war and the Senate's willingness to examine it. A22

Panel Urges Revised Tax Codes
President Bush's advisory commission on taxes unanimously recommended a vastly simplified tax system that would limit the deduction of interest payments on large mortgages and erase other tax breaks that many Americans enjoy. A27

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Prince Charles and Camilla Visit Ground Zero
The Prince of Wales and his wife began a one-week visit to the United States, their first official overseas tour since their marriage last April, with a visit to ground zero, where they met privately with the families of some of the 67 Britons killed in the 9/11 attack. B1

Wrong Man Believed Slain
Investigators are trying to determine whether the killing of a 25-year-old man outside a housing complex in New Rochelle, N.Y., was an act of retaliation for a previous killing. The police say the gunmen involved in Monday's shooting shot the wrong man. B1

EDUCATION B9

SPORTS WEDNESDAY D1-6

ARTS E1-12

OBITUARIES C18

DINING OUT F1-12

Michelin Restaurant Reviews
Michelin announced its first ratings for restaurants in New York City, superstar chefs and proprietors reacted with joyous tears, resignation and, in some cases, dismay. Four restaurants -- Alain Ducasse at the Essex House, Jean Georges, Le Bernardin and Per Se -- received the top ranking, three stars. But Daniel, long considered to be in the very top rank of New York's restaurants, received two. F1

BUSINESS DAY C1-17

Bad Month for the Big Three
The Big Three's share of the American car market hit a record low last month. Sales for the companies -- General Motors, Ford and Chrysler -- fell in the wake of high gasoline prices, fears about the economy and consumer resistance to buying cars without big discounts. C1

A California family has been testing the Honda FCX, a car powered by hydrogen fuel cells, in one of the more unusual experiments in the auto industry's history. C1

Microsoft's Strategic Shift
Microsoft introduced two advertising-supported Web services, Windows Live and Office Live, that are meant to be a direct response to the formidable challenges posed by its major competitors, Google and Yahoo. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: Remember that mushroom cloud?; the president's pandemic plan; jobs and joblessness on the Gulf Coast; incumbents shake their money tree.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E8
Weather D8
TV Listings E11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TERRORISM (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); INFLUENZA (84%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); MILITARY COURTS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MILITARY OFFENSES (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); HAMAS (70%); CONSPIRACY (70%); ASSASSINATION (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (67%); ANTIVIRALS (66%); MONEY LAUNDERING (63%); VACCINES (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-AQSA MARTYRS BRIGADES (54%); HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%); SAMUEL ALITO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (75%) UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (90%); CHINA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



32 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Coloradans Vote to Give Up Tax Refunds

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: DENVER, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
Colorado voters agreed Tuesday to give up $3.7 billion in tax refunds over the next five years to allow the state to bounce back from a recession, ignoring the arguments of fiscal conservatives who say the government does not need more money to spend. 
 With 83 percent of the expected vote counted statewide, 463,841 voters, or 53 percent, had approved the plan, compared with 419,236 , or 47 percent, who voted against it.Supporters said Colorado could not afford to vote no, not with higher education, health care and transportation already suffering from millions of dollars in budget cuts.
The measure lets the state keep an estimated $3.7 billion over five years that would otherwise be refunded under a constitutional amendment that is considered the nation's strictest cap on government spending.
 The 1992 amendment, the Taxpayers Bill of Rights, has been celebrated by fiscal conservatives across the country. Until this year, its supporters included Gov. Bill Owens, but the lame-duck Republican stunned his party by joining Democrats on the ballot measure. Governor Owens said he backed it because Colorado faced a fiscal crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); REFERENDUMS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); APPROVALS (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%); BUDGET CUTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



33 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

American Automakers' Market Share Slips to Lowest U.S. Level in History
General Motors, Ford and Chrysler held the smallest share of the American auto market ever in October, a month that used to be an industrywide celebration of new car introductions and brisk sales. [Page C1.] 


Fed Raises Interest Rates and Promises More
Undaunted by back-to-back hurricanes and higher oil prices, the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates on for the 12th time in a row and made it clear that more increases are on the way. [C1.]

Jury Begins Deliberating in Second Vioxx Trial
After seven weeks of testimony and often heated legal wrangling, a jury of six women and three men began deliberations in Atlantic City in the second Vioxx-related lawsuit to go to trial. [C1.]

Aetna to Increase Coverage for Depression
Prompted in part by employers who cite depression as a frequent cause of absenteeism and low productivity, the big insurer Aetna plans to announce today that it will begin paying for a depression management program in dozens of medical offices around the country. [C3.]

Part of Wal-Mart Suit Against Executive Dismissed
A judge in Arkansas threw out part of Wal-Mart's lawsuit against its former vice chairman, Thomas M. Coughlin, citing an agreement that bars the former executive and the company from suing each other. Mr. Coughlin. left, has been accused by Wal-Mart of misusing up to $500,000 of company money. Wal-Mart sued to prevent Mr. Coughlin from collecting about $12 million worth of retirement benefits. [C2.]

Bush to Ask for $7.1 Billion to Prepare for Flu
President Bush plans to ask Congress for $7.1 billion to prepare the nation for the possibility of a flu pandemic. Most of the money would be spent on research and a national stockpile of vaccines and antiviral drugs. [A20.]

Microsoft Introduces Online Windows and Office
Microsoft introduced two new advertising-supported Web services: the online versions of Windows and Office. The initiative is a direct response to the formidable challenges posed by Google and Yahoo. [C1.]

Price of Copper Could Be Poised for a Fall
Like crude oil, copper prices have climbed steady this year amid a housing boom in the United States and industrialization in Asia. But now some analysts believe that the price will fall and could fall fast. [C3.]

An Indianapolis Airline Cuts its Hometown Flights
ATA Airlines, once the busiest carrier in Indianapolis but shrinking during bankruptcy proceedings in the last year, said yesterday that it would cancel its last three daily flights out of the city, which is its headquarters, as of Jan. 10. [C3.]

Viacom's Cable Unit Helps It Post a Quarterly Profit
As it prepares to split into two public companies, Viacom announced yesterday that it had swung to a profit for the third quarter. Its revenue also rose, led by a strong performance at its cable networks unit, which includes MTV and Nickelodeon. [C3.]

Knight Ridder Shareholder Urges Sale of Company
Knight Ridder, the publisher of 32 daily newspapers including The Miami Herald and The Philadelphia Inquirer, has come under fire from its largest shareholder, who yesterday demanded that the company put itself up for sale. [C6.]

European Bank UBS Posts 71 Percent Profit Increase
UBS, Europe's largest bank, reported a 71 percent increase in third-quarter profit, benefiting from a boom in oil-related wealth in the Middle East and Asia. UBS said it earned 2.77 billion Swiss francs ($2.15 billion) in the period, up from 1.62 billion francs a year earlier, as its wealth management unit increased the size of its asset portfolio by 31.1 billion francs. Soaring global oil prices have created tens of billions of dollars in new wealth in Arab states and Asian nations with large crude oil production. [C17.]

Stocks Fall on Interest Rates and Dell's Outlook
Stocks fell after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates , and Dell forecast disappointing results for the current quarter. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 33.30 points, to 10,406.77. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 4.25 points, to 1,202.76, and the Nasdaq composite index slipped 6.25 points, to 2,114.05. [C11.]

Another Video Game Maker Forecasts Poor Demand
Electronic Arts became the second major video game maker this week to warn of soft demand from retailers as it heads into the holiday season. [C10.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of UBS shares since August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AIRLINES (84%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COPPER MARKETS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); TESTIMONY (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); JUDGES (70%); EPIDEMICS (68%); INFLUENZA (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%); ANTIVIRALS (62%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (52%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (81%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); VIACOM INC (50%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (02%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (81%); GM (NYSE) (58%); WMT (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); VIA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (91%) INDIANA, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



34 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Lifts Rate Again, Despite Rise In Fuel Price

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
Undaunted by back-to-back hurricanes and higher oil prices, the Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates on Tuesday for the 12th time in a row and made it clear that more increases were on the way.
 In a statement, Fed policy makers said the economic disruptions caused by hurricanes were essentially transitory and signaled that they were more worried about higher inflation than slower growth. 
''Elevated energy prices and hurricane-related disruptions in economic activity,'' the central bank said in raising the rate to 4 percent from 3.75 percent, ''have temporarily depressed output and employment.'' 
 The decision means that the Federal Reserve is almost certain to raise rates at policy meetings in December and January, and it will probably keep going after Alan Greenspan retires as Fed chairman at the end of January.
 In effect, Mr. Greenspan's last act as chairman amounts to a carefully choreographed effort to shore up the Fed's credibility and gently reverse an extraordinary period of cheap borrowing.
 Under Mr. Greenspan, the Fed reduced short-term rates to 1 percent in 2003 and kept them there for a year to shore up the economy. Since June 2004, the Fed has been inching rates back toward a ''neutral'' rate that neither stokes inflation nor stifles growth.
 ''The Fed is saying that 'we're being tested here, we're being tested on our anti-inflation credibility,' '' said Ethan Harris, the chief economist at Lehman Brothers. ''They need to sound tough. They need a pretty good bark to go with their bite.''
 The Federal funds rate is now at its highest level since June 2001, but it is still well below its most recent peak of 6.5 percent at the end of 2000.
 The Fed continued to describe its policy as accommodative -- meaning that interest rates are still low -- and predicted that the economic disruptions caused by recent hurricanes and spiking oil prices would essentially be transitory. It also reiterated its desire to keep raising rates at a ''pace that is likely to be measured.''
 Some analysts suspect that Fed officials may be contemplating the need to go beyond ''neutral'' and apply the brakes. Mr. Greenspan told lawmakers early this year that people would recognize a ''neutral'' level when they reached it. Some Fed policy makers have publicly suggested that it could be 5 percent or higher.
 Thus far, the underlying rate of inflation has yet to show many signs of being pushed higher by the surge in oil prices. The Consumer Price Index in September was 4.7 percent higher than a year earlier, the biggest jump in years, but most of that was due to fuel prices.
 Mr. Greenspan and most other Fed officials tend to view higher energy prices as a one-time event and pay much closer attention to the ''core'' rate of inflation that excludes energy and food prices.
 The Fed's favorite price gauge -- the Commerce Department's price deflator for personal consumer expenditures, excluding food and energy -- was up 2 percent in the third quarter over the same period in 2004.
 That was still mild, especially in light of surging gasoline prices, but it was at the outer limit of the comfort zone for many Fed officials. 
 ''Those of you who lived through the 1970's will remember that higher oil prices touched off a wage-price spiral that pushed inflation into double-digit territory,'' said Janet L. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, in a speech on Oct. 18. 
 ''I see no evidence of feedbacks from energy prices to wage bargaining,'' Ms. Yellen said. ''The risk, though, is that, without appropriate policy, we could see a repetition of the 70's-type dynamic.''
 Recent data suggest that the economy has enough momentum to withstand higher interest rates. Last week, the government surprised many forecasters by estimating that the economy grew at a rapid clip of 3.8 percent in the third quarter, despite the impact of Hurricane Katrina and skyrocketing fuel prices.
 Reconstruction efforts from the hurricanes would bolster growth, the Fed said, and it implied that there was no need to prop up the economy with lower borrowing costs. 
 Other data suggest that companies are passing along higher energy costs to customers with greater ease.
 On Tuesday, the Institute for Supply Management reported that its index of manufacturing activity rose sharply in October, but that factories also reported a big jump in the prices they had to pay for parts and materials -- partly a reflection of the rush by companies to stock up on supplies after the hurricane. The institute said its index for prices paid by companies climbed to its highest level since June 2004.
 ''It's clear at the business-to-business level that we are getting greater pass-throughs of higher energy prices to customers,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist for Global Insight. ''Some of that is going to be passed on to consumers.'' 
 In its statement, the central bank sounded much the same note as Ms. Yellen -- watchful but not panicked about inflation, and still fairly confident that the economy and employment would continue to grow at a respectable pace.
 ''The cumulative rise in energy and other costs have the potential to add to inflation pressures,'' the central bank said. ''However, core inflation has been relatively low in recent months and longer-term inflation expectations remain contained.''
 Despite the seemingly calm language about inflation, many analysts viewed the Fed's declaration as a hawkish warning that rates could go considerably higher.
 ''With higher inflation still a tangible threat, officials cannot rule out the possible need to move beyond neutral,'' wrote Robert V. DiClemente, a senior economist at Citigroup. 
 In contrast to the last policy meeting on Sept. 20, when Fed governor Mark W. Olson dissented and voted against a rate increase, the vote on Tuesday was unanimous.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders at the New York Stock Exchange yesterday. The Fed said the aftermath from recent hurricanes would not impede economic growth. (Photo by Henny Ray Abrams/Associated Press)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); INFLATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); WEATHER (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



35 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Congress Is Warned of Veto If Insurance Funding Is Cut

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
The Bush administration threatened Tuesday to veto a huge budget bill if Congress withdrew $10 billion set aside for health insurance companies participating in the Medicare program.
 The veto threat came as the Senate began work on the omnibus bill, intended to cut $39 billion from federal benefit programs over the next five years. Democrats said the savings would be dwarfed by tax cuts that Republicans planned to pass in coming months.
Democrats said the net effect of the Republican plan for spending and tax cuts would increase the budget deficit and the federal debt, which reflects the accumulated total of all federal borrowing. 
 Republicans said the tax cuts would stimulate the economy and thus generate additional revenue.
 The Senate budget plan would open an Alaskan wilderness area to oil drilling, reduce the growth of Medicare and Medicaid, trim farm programs across the board, charge new fees for certain immigrant visas and increase the premiums paid by corporations to the troubled Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
 The House is scheduled to vote next week on a spending plan expected to squeeze $50 billion from federal benefit programs over the next five years. 
 The White House said it ''strongly supports'' the overall Senate budget bill, drafted by Republicans. But it strenuously objected to a provision that would eliminate the so-called $10 billion stabilization fund, earmarked for managed care plans, as an incentive for them to participate in Medicare from 2007 to 2013. 
 Critics call the $10 billion a ''slush fund,'' but the White House said the money would induce managed care plans to enter rural areas, thus expanding choices for some Medicare beneficiaries.
 The veto threat came in an official statement of administration policy.
 ''If a final bill is presented to the president that limits the choices of seniors, takes away their prescription drug coverage or cuts the stabilization fund to increase Medicare spending,'' the White House said, ''the president's senior advisers will recommend that he veto the bill.'' 
 Senate Republicans would use some of the savings to provide a small increase in Medicare payments to doctors, instead of the 4.3 percent cut that would otherwise occur. Neither President Bush nor House Republican leaders have offered any specific plan to forestall the cut, scheduled to take effect on Jan. 1. Doctors say the cut will deter them from taking new Medicare patients.
 Senator Judd Gregg, the New Hampshire Republican who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said the budget bill was the most ambitious effort to rein in federal spending since 1997.
 ''We produced a budget this year, for the first time in eight years, to control the rate of growth of entitlement spending,'' Mr. Gregg said, referring to the programs that pay benefits to anyone who meets certain eligibility criteria.
 But Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the senior Democrat on the Budget Committee, said it was a sham to portray the legislation as a deficit reduction measure.
 ''The first chapter of this book cuts spending by $39 billion over the next five years,'' Mr. Conrad said. ''But that is only part of the package. The next chapter will have tax cuts of $70 billion. Chapter 3 is to increase the debt limit. This budget package will increase the debt of the United States.''
 Under the budget blueprint approved by Congress this year, the federal debt -- bonds and notes held by the public -- would increase 31 percent, to $6.15 trillion in 2010, from $4.7 trillion in 2005.
 Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri, the House Republican whip and acting majority leader, dismissed the idea that the tax cuts would increase the deficit. ''A strong, growing economy produces more revenue,'' he said.
 Mr. Blunt and Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said they intended to move tax cuts through Congress this year, after lawmakers finished work on the spending bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); MEDICARE (91%); VETO (91%); INSURANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); MEDICAID (58%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (53%); IMMIGRATION (53%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); KENT CONRAD (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



36 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Judge Alito: The Right Choice for the Court?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Bush Picks U.S. Appeals Judge to Take O'Connor's Court Seat'' (front page, Nov. 1): 
 With the nomination of Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr., President Bush has decided to hunker down in a White House bunker in the hope that his extreme right-wing base will rally around to salvage his deeply wounded administration.
Not content that his presidency has left our country deeply divided over the Iraq war and domestic policies, Mr. Bush seems determined to complete the nullification of 70 years of social and economic progress -- a reversal that the Rehnquist Court set in motion with its attempts to limit the powers of the federal government.
 Unless this effort to rewrite the history of the last century by means of our judiciary is stopped, the result will be an increasing polarization of the American people into a nation of haves and have-nots. It is up to moderates in both parties to rise to the occasion and preserve the American dream of equal opportunity for all.

Jay N. Feldman
Port Washington, N.Y., Nov. 1, 2005



GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Weston)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); IRAQ WAR (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); SAMUEL ALITO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



37 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: F.D.I.C. Chairman Picked To Oversee Gulf Recovery 

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
The Bush administration on Tuesday named Donald E. Powell, the chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Commission and a former Texas banker with long ties to President Bush, to coordinate the federal role in rebuilding the parts of the Gulf Coast devastated by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
 He will report to the secretary of homeland security, Michael Chertoff, who said Mr. Powell brought ''the leadership, ideas and optimism that the residents of the Gulf Coast region deserve.'' Mr. Chertoff, who said he had made the appointment in consultation with the White House, said Mr. Powell would be the administration's ''primary point of contact with Congress, state and local governments, the private sector and community leaders on mid- and long-term recovery and rebuilding plans.'' 
Before being named by Mr. Bush in 2001 to lead the deposit insurance agency, Mr. Powell was chief executive of the First National Bank of Amarillo. In the 1990's, as governor of Texas, Mr. Bush named Mr. Powell to be chairman of the Board of Regents at Texas A&M University. Mr. Powell was one of Mr. Bush's leading fund-raisers in the 2000 presidential campaign. 
 Administration officials said Mr. Powell's experience in government and business, his role at Texas A&M and his position as chairman of the Amarillo Chamber of Commerce had exposed him to regional economic development issues and qualified him for a major role in the posthurricane reconstruction effort.
 But he has no direct experience overseeing large-scale rebuilding efforts of the sort being undertaken by officials in Louisiana and Mississippi. Democrats were quick to draw parallels to Michael D. Brown, the former director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, who stepped aside after Hurricane Katrina under a firestorm of criticism and accusations that he did not have enough experience to do the job and got it only through connections.
 ''This appointment is business as usual and shows that the gulf recovery is not a top priority for the president,'' said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. ''Mr. Powell may be an accomplished banker and political fund-raiser, but according to the administration, he has no disaster recovery experience. I find this terribly troubling, especially given the tragic missteps of Michael Brown.''
 Though Mr. Powell will work for the Homeland Security Department, he will not be an employee of FEMA.
 Russ Knocke, a spokesman for the department, said Mr. Powell would not be available for an interview on Tuesday. In a statement announcing that he would step down from his job running the deposit insurance corporation to take on the posthurricane coordination, Mr. Powell said he was honored to be getting a job that would allow him to ''help the many people who have had their lives turned upside down.''
 The administration had sent conflicting signals about whether it would appoint someone to take on broad responsibilities for reconstruction. A little more than a week after Hurricane Katrina, Vice President Dick Cheney, on a trip to the region, said there was no need for a recovery ''czar'' because the administration already had plenty of talented people. Other officials had left open the possibility of such an appointment, especially after the completion of the immediate tasks of rescuing people, cleaning up the damage and moving hundreds of thousands of people into housing.
 Many members of the Congressional delegations from Louisiana and Mississippi had been pressing the White House to appoint someone to take on the job. They praised the White House on Tuesday for doing so, but some suggested that the choice of Mr. Powell was a surprise.
 ''I had previously suggested alternative names with extensive backgrounds in the private sector or military logistics to fill this position,'' said Representative Bobby Jindal, Republican of Louisiana, ''but I am hopeful that Mr. Powell will bring the right skills and experience to provide the leadership and decision making ability this position requires.'' 
 Dr. Norman Francis, recently appointed the chairman of the Louisiana Recovery Authority by Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco, welcomed the appointment and said a state delegation would soon meet with Mr. Powell. In a statement, he made it clear that he hoped Mr. Powell would overcome Washington's previous shortcomings and ''eliminate roadblocks for the delivery of critical federal resources.'' 
 The White House said it had established a new Gulf Coast Recovery and Rebuilding Council that would work with Mr. Powell to set federal policy on the rebuilding effort, the costs of which remain undetermined. The chairman of the council will be Al Hubbard, director of the National Economic Council.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald E. Powell, recovery chief. (Pool photo by Alex Wong)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HURRICANES (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (87%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF AMARILLO (58%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (58%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (58%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); MICHAEL CHERTOFF (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMARILLO, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



38 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Bush Faces Tough Time in South America

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
If George W. Bush is expecting some respite from his troubles at home during a four-day visit to Argentina and Brazil that begins Thursday, he is in for a very rude awakening.
 Polls show Mr. Bush to be the most unpopular American president ever among Latin Americans, and thousands of demonstrators, led by the soccer idol Diego Maradona, are flocking to the Argentine beach resort of Mar del Plata to protest his presence at a summit meeting of Western Hemisphere leaders. The greeting from his fellow heads of state, who have been complaining of his administration's neglect of and indifference to the region for five years, does not promise to be especially warm, either.
 ''He doesn't have any money to offer, so the president doesn't really have any cards to play,'' said Riordan Roett, director of the Latin American studies program at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies. ''Nobody among the crop of fiscally conservative but socially progressive presidents that we now have around the region is going to go to his defense.'' 
 The theme of what is formally known as the Fourth Summit of the Americas is ''Creating Jobs to Fight Poverty and Strengthen Democratic Governance.'' But the feeling among many Latin Americans is that the United States is coming with little to offer other than the usual nostrums about free trade, open markets, privatization and fiscal austerity, the same recipe that has vastly increased social inequality throughout Latin America during the past decade.
 ''We've almost all of us been down that road, and it didn't work,'' said a diplomat from one South American country, speaking on condition of anonymity so as not to offend the Bush administration. ''The United States continues to see things one way, but most of the rest of the hemisphere has moved on and is heading in another direction.''
 Even in the area of free trade, which Washington continues to offer as the solution to the region's problems, progress has slowed to a crawl. Washington recently struck such an agreement with Central American nations, but the 2005 deadline for a much broader hemispheric accord, set at the first summit meeting in Miami in 1994, has now come and gone. Moreover, while Latin America had one of its better economic performances last year, much of that growth came from booming sales of raw materials to China, not trade with the United States.
 ''The pace of free trade negotiations has slowed down,'' but not ''the commitment to some kind of broader hemispheric agreement,'' Thomas A. Shannon, the American assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs, said Tuesday in a telephone interview from Washington. ''We don't see any dramatic stepping away'' from the notion that ''democracy and free markets really do deliver the goods,'' he added.
 Latin American diplomats, however, say negotiations over a joint text to be issued at the end of the three-day meeting have been fraught with disagreement. The Bush administration and Canada have been pushing for a resounding endorsement of what is known as the Washington Consensus, which embodies the free-trade message. But Latin America, with Venezuela's populist president, Hugo Chavez, particularly scathing in his condemnations and threatening to steal the show, has been resisting.
 ''We have not yet attained a common language,'' Argentina's deputy foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, said last week. ''Different countries have different experiences, and therefore different visions of things.''
 No country on the continent has suffered more economically in recent years than Argentina, and a poll taken there last month showed that a majority wished Mr. Bush would simply stay home. After an economic and political crisis in 2001 and 2002 that led to the collapse of its currency and the biggest debt default in history, Argentina is now the fastest growing country in South America, despite ignoring the guidance of the Treasury Department and the International Monetary Fund.
 Last month, at a conference of Ibero-American heads of state in Spain, Mr. Bush's Latin American counterparts strongly signaled their feisty mood. In unusually blunt language, their final communique sharply criticized Washington's position both on Cuba, which was not invited to the summit meeting, and on terrorism.
 Rather than just condemn the American economic embargo of Cuba, the statement referred to a ''blockade,'' the term that Fidel Castro favors because it implies a violation of international law. The declaration also called on the United States to extradite a Cuban exile wanted in Venezuela and Cuba for blowing up a Cuban airliner in 1976, saying that every nation must have a ''commitment to combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.''
 Mr. Shannon described the declarations as ''unfortunate.'' He said, ''Why other countries were prepared to accept that language, well, I guess you'll have to ask them.'' He added, ''We've made clear to our partners that this kind of language is certainly not helpful'' because it ''misrepresents our policy.''
 There is also the matter of recent elections at the Organization of American States and the Inter-American Development Bank, in which Washington was seen as trying to muscle its candidate into office. The Bush administration failed in the first instance and succeeded in the second, but both cases appear to have left a residue of resentment.
 ''There is just a lot of skepticism and mistrust, because the United States continues to regard Latin America as a region we can take for granted, that has to go along with us on whatever we do,'' said Michael Shifter, an analyst at Inter-American Dialogue, a research group based in Washington. ''But Latin America has changed and is behaving very differently on the world stage.''
 Security for the Mar del Plata summit meeting will be at record levels, with more than 7,000 security agents expected. More than 100 people were killed in two anti-Semitic terrorist attacks in Buenos Aires in the 1990's, which Argentine authorities attribute to Iran, and President Nestor Kirchner dreads the thought of any recurrence.
 A ''countersummit'' by groups opposed to free trade, globalization and Mr. Bush is scheduled to begin Wednesday. Mr. Maradona, calling Mr. Bush's presence an affront to Argentine dignity, has promised to lead demonstrations, and even Mr. Chavez, the current hero of the Latin American left, said he would attend.
 ''Bush is a torturer, a violator of human rights and a murderer, who does not respect United Nations resolutions, international treaties or the sovereignty of peoples, as in the case of Iraq,'' said Adolfo Perez Esquivel, a Nobel Peace Prize winner who is one of the protest organizers. ''He is not welcome in Argentina, and he should be repudiated.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Socialist Movement protested last week outside the American Embassy in Brasilia. The sign reads ''Out Bush, enemy No. 1 of humanity.'' (Photo by Eraldo Peres/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (88%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (72%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (68%); CONSERVATISM (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); JOB CREATION (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (70%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



39 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; CAMPAIGNING FOR CITY HALL: THE CANDIDATES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1740 words

HEADLINE: ATTACKS ESCALATE IN FINAL DEBATE OF MAYOR'S RACE

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY; Jim Rutenberg contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
In their second and final debate of the 2005 mayor's race, Michael R. Bloomberg last night belittled his Democratic challenger, Fernando Ferrer, as a serial complainer who lacked serious solutions to improve the public schools, the city's economy or the quality of life in New York.
 Mr. Bloomberg was far more assertive than in their first televised debate on Sunday and sought to diminish Mr. Ferrer's credibility. But the Democratic candidate was equally ferocious about linking Mr. Bloomberg to virtually anything unpopular with at least some New York voters -- including the Iraq war, President Bush, school dropout rates, the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn, ground zero rebuilding and subway fare increases.
The mayor, who holds a comfortable lead in the polls, attacked Mr. Ferrer at least eight times during the one-hour debate, and with more force than the two times he criticized Mr. Ferrer on Sunday. Democrats saw anxiety in the mayor's parrying, while Mr. Bloomberg's aides said the time had come -- a week before the election -- to portray Mr. Ferrer as a nitpicker bereft of ideas for the city's problems. 
 ''He stands for complaining, he stands for identifying problems and never coming up with solutions,'' Mr. Bloomberg said of Mr. Ferrer five minutes into the debate. ''It's easy to be a critic; it's very hard to lead.''
 Later, the mayor became more specific, arguing that Mr. Ferrer had not solved any major problems when he was Bronx borough president or a city councilman. Though Mr. Ferrer has tried to make high dropout rates a signature issue in his campaign, Mr. Bloomberg scorned his record in improving city schools during his time as a public official, for instance.
 ''When my opponent had the opportunity to do that, for 19 years while he was in office, he did nothing,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''He didn't even talk about graduation rates until all of a sudden he's running for mayor. You can't have it both ways.''
 Mr. Ferrer -- after a dramatic pause for effect, one of several he used last night -- swiftly lashed back by noting that when he was borough president, his office had provided millions of dollars to public schools for computers and other needs. He told Mr. Bloomberg that it was ''beneath you'' to ''pass the buck'' on school dropout rates as they tangled over precise numbers, with Mr. Ferrer saying the dropout rate was 50 percent and the mayor saying that figure was actually the four-year graduation rate, which has risen to 54 percent. ''He's just making up a number, or he doesn't understand,'' the mayor said of Mr. Ferrer.
 The mayor's direct attacks were a turnabout from Sunday's debate, when Mr. Ferrer repeatedly assailed the incumbent and Mr. Bloomberg often shied away from rebuttals. But last night, the stakes were higher.
 If sniping and sparring quickly became a staple of the debate, there were also no especially memorable attack lines, and none of the politically jarring blows that Mr. Ferrer was seeking in an effort to damage the mayor or inject momentum into his struggling campaign in the closing days of the race.
 Even when each candidate was allowed to ask one question of the other, there were few fireworks. Mr. Ferrer challenged the mayor for remarking once that poor New Yorkers receive better health care than the wealthy; Mr. Bloomberg replied that he was praising high-quality care at the city's public hospitals. The mayor, meanwhile, tried to pit Mr. Ferrer against the city's major editorial boards, which have endorsed Mr. Bloomberg; Mr. Ferrer replied by criticizing The New York Times and The New York Post. 
 But in the final minutes of the debate, Mr. Ferrer tried to pull a surprise by directly challenging the mayor to additional debates. Mr. Bloomberg has regarded his challenger as the political equivalent of the flu (which was briefly discussed last night), recognizing the potential threat but ignoring and avoiding it as much as possible.
 ''I don't think it's right to avoid debate in this city,'' Mr. Ferrer said. ''Why won't you debate anymore this season?'' A moment later, turning again to the mayor, he said: ''Come on, We've still got a week to do this.''
 Mr. Bloomberg stared stonily ahead throughout this; when a WNBC-TV panel member offered him the chance to respond, he said, ''Having a debate about debates is not a good use of this time.'' Mr. Ferrer sighed slightly and smiled.
 The Democratic candidate was by far the more theatrical of the two. He drew out the word ''no'' a few times, guffawed loudly once, sighed with frustration more than once, raised his tone at points and dripped with sarcasm at others, and looked at the mayor frequently and called him Mike. Yet he did not seem to burn as hot as in the first debate, when he jabbed his fingers in the air at the mayor and took a step or two toward him in some answers -- both of which actions were tweaked as obnoxious immaturity by the mayor's camp afterwards.
 Each candidate spoke a bit of Spanish at points as well, in a further attempt to make inroads into the Hispanic vote, which could prove crucial on Tuesday. Mr. Ferrer, who is of Puerto Rican descent, repeated a favorite phrase of his grandmother as he lambasted Mr. Bloomberg for donating his own money to President Bush and other fellow Republicans.
 ''Tell me who you walk with, and I'll tell you who you are,'' Mr. Ferrer said by way of translation. ''Mike, in two languages, you're a Republican.''
 Mr. Bloomberg, when asked to say something nice about Mr. Ferrer, called him a great family man and a better Spanish speaker, but then added, in Spanish, that he was trying to learn the language. Mr. Ferrer, for his part, credited the mayor for not worsening racial tensions in the city. ''As a New Yorker, I thank you for that.''
 The niceties were prompted by the panelists from WNBC-TV, however; for the most part the swatting continued, with each candidate even injecting a dig into their statements of admiration for the other. Mr. Ferrer said the mayor had been divisive in other ways, while Mr. Bloomberg -- when asked if there was a Ferrer policy that he respected -- suggested he could find none.
 ''He was in a position where he criticized the school system but he never took the opportunity to fix it,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''Every child who is in high school today was in elementary and middle school'' when Mr. Ferrer was borough president, from 1987 to 2001.
 The debate began with questions about the suddenly intensifying ad war between the two political camps, as WNBC-TV -- which televised the debate, sponsored by the Campaign Finance Board -- asked Mr. Bloomberg for his reaction to a new, cartoon-like Ferrer ad that depicts the mayor stuffing money into President Bush's pants.
 ''I don't know that comic books are very important in this election,'' Mr. Bloomberg scoffed. ''We should be talking about real issues.'' Pressed if he wanted people to believe or not that he was a Republican, since he was a Democrat until 2001 and has referred to himself as a liberal, the mayor replied: I don't know if I want them to believe it -- I believe in some things in the Republican Party, I believe in some things in the Democratic Party.'' 
 When he was shown a clip of a Bloomberg ad denouncing him as a flip-flopper on issues, Mr. Ferrer raised the specter of Republican attacks in 2004 against the Democratic presidential nominee, John Kerry, who was popular in New York.
 ''Sounds to me like an ad that George Bush ran against John Kerry,'' Mr. Ferrer said.
 It was one of several times that Mr. Ferrer tried to persuade viewers that the mayor was a Bush lackey. Asked if City Hall should be used as a bully pulpit to urge withdrawal of troops from Iraq, Mr. Ferrer exclaimed, ''You bet I do!'' and chastised the mayor for once saying that the war was not a local issue.
 Mr. Bloomberg said flatly that withdrawal should be up to the generals, but added that decamping now would mean that New York's fallen service members would have ''died in vain.'' One new policy difference that emerged clearly last night was over the military recruiting in public schools: Mr. Bloomberg said that if businesses could recruit there, so should the military, while Mr. Ferrer said he opposed it because students should focus on preparing for jobs.
 At times Mr. Bloomberg acted as if he were tutoring Mr. Ferrer on managing the city budget, explaining the intricacies of taxing and spending and suggesting a problem in Mr. Ferrer's plan to cut taxes for homeowners while also using tax money to build more low-cost housing.
 ''You can't have it both ways,'' the mayor said, while committing himself to deliver an increasingly efficient city government that seeks the least-painful spending cuts. He also said he would press ahead with new development projects in a second term, and chastised Mr. Ferrer for being a critic of any grand endeavor that might create jobs.
 ''I have yet to hear one major development project in this city that my opponent is in favor of,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
 Mr. Ferrer entered last night's debate with a rising confidence in his candidacy, aides said. Despite polls showing him roughly 30 points behind, aides said he believed that his debate performances and the intensifying campaign ad war had posed the first real challenge of the fall to Mr. Bloomberg.
 Yet this debate was also Mr. Ferrer's final chance to appear on equal footing on television with the mayor, who has used his personal fortune to help build his lead with unlimited campaign advertising. The Democratic challenger relentlessly attacked Mr. Bloomberg on Sunday, and last night, with a much wider audience expected, he faced far higher stakes: It was perhaps his last, best hope to damage the mayor in advance of the election on Tuesday.
 ''Freddy Ferrer has been outspent, he's been out-strategized, and he's failed to register with voters on the issues,'' said Norman Adler, a veteran political consultant in the city. ''These debates are really his only chance to hit back directly against the mayor and try to make a case directly to the voters.''
 Mr. Ferrer's goals at this late stage, aides said, were to present himself as a capable and spirited leader in the two debates, portray himself as the Democratic standard-bearer, and energize his core base of voters -- Hispanics, Bronx residents, blacks, the elderly -- to increase the odds that they will got to the polls on Election Day.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Ferrer and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg took turns attacking each other last night in Rockefeller Center during the final debate before the mayoral election on Tuesday. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); MAYORS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); GRADUATION RATES (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); IRAQ WAR (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



40 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; BOLDFACE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 636 words

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON; With Michael S. Schmidt and Kari Haskell

 BODY:

The Collected Tone Poems Of Don King
 We would love to tell you of the hot gossip that took place at JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE's Halloween party at Marquee, a club that we should add is always loud and quite large. We should also say that everyone was wearing a costume. But we did spy a VAMPIRE NURSE who danced suggestively with a MAN DRESSED AS A NUN. Or maybe he was a sheik, actually. It was quite dark. Also, we think we saw SPIDER-MAN. Anyway, we were told that Mr. Timberlake and CAMERON DIAZ were there at some point, and even JASON BIGGS. 
 But Halloween is so Monday. 
Let's stick with Friday, when we went to the New York Hilton for the Friars Club roast of DON KING, whose hair we will not stoop to describe with overblown journalistic similes except to say that it looked like a hedgehog that had dispatched a 12-pack of Red Bull. 
 ''I am a glutton for punishment,'' Mr. King announced, looking down on us from his position on the dais. The roast was a few minutes off, ''God Bless America'' had already been sung, and lunch was being served. ''Beat me,'' Mr. King continued. ''Beat me, you know what I mean. I am a freak for flagellation.''
 Whereupon he began shouting at various people who had come up to greet him, mixing his declarations of affection with details of a fight he is promoting.
 At a lull, we continued. What is your retort going to be?
 ''I don't know,'' Mr. King said. ''I am going to have to do it extemporaneously. It'll have to come off the top of my head.'' 
 We are grown-ups here and will resist the easy joke. 
 ''I'll deal with the fact that I am a true pioneer and a trailblazer being able to do whatever comes from my mind, from behind a tree, extemporaneously.''
 On the other side of the podium sat DONALD TRUMP, wearing his customary bright pink tie and hair. A security guard stood in front of him shooing away people while Mr. Trump studied his notes. We watched a woman approach and hand him a box of chocolates, which he immediately passed off to his security guard.
 ''I am just going over some notes,'' Mr. Trump said. ''They gave me 25 pages of notes. But it will be good.'' 
 The roast began, and featured most of the usual roasting crowd, like LISA LAMPANELLI, GILBERT GOTTFRIED, FREDDIE ROMAN, LEROY NEIMAN and COLIN QUINN, whose schedule must be packed with, hm, every other roast in America. AL SHARPTON also spoke for a bit. 
 As with many Friars Club roasts, we cannot print anything that was said, other than the occasional preposition, an article or two and Mr. King's name in certain contexts. 
 But at the end Mr. King stood for the rebuttal and gave a speech that we could print, but can barely understand. Something about ''incorruptible everlasting levity uncompromising,'' he said, apparently referring to GEORGE W. BUSH's economic policy, or perhaps to American foreign policy. And then how the ''101st Airborne and the Friars epitomize self-deprecation.'' And also ''steadfast tenacious'' about something. 
 ''God bless America,'' he concluded, to a crowd that wasn't sure how to respond. ''God bless you, God bless George W. Bush.''

The Jolie Works In Mysterious Ways
 MIKAEL HFSTROM talked to reporters at Sunday night's premiere of ''Derailed,'' the WEINSTEIN company's first movie, which Mr. HRated Gfstrom directed and which stars JENNIFER ANISTON and CLIVE OWEN. 
 After handling the first few softballs the inevitable reared its stylishly close-shaved head: Do you think the whole BRAD and ANGELINA thing helped with box office?
 ''You don't think like that. People are going to see this film because they like it, not because of Jennifer or somebody else.'' 
 Beat.
 ''I mean she is a very, very famous person, of course, but that puts a lot of attention on her and the film. I mean that's good and that's good for our movie that we made together.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HALLOWEEN (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (88%); DONALD TRUMP (63%); CAMERON DIAZ (58%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



41 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM SYRIA; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: In the Fief of the Assads, Friends Melt Away

BYLINE: By Michael Slackman

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, Nov. 1 

 BODY:
Syrian officials have been saying for years that they have closed down all the offices of Palestinian factions working here in the capital city, as the United States and the Europeans, among others, have insisted. They are all gone, they say: Hamas, Islamic Jihad, the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine and others.
 But last month, President Bashar al-Assad held a meeting of the leaders of all the factions. He called for unity among Palestinians and, according to people at the meeting, said he would remove some of the restrictions he had placed on their political work from Damascus. 
''It would be illogical to say let's have a public meeting and say our offices are closed,'' said Abu Ahmed Fouad as he sat behind his desk in the downtown Damascus office of the Popular Front.
 For decades, Syrian leaders have played a kind of double game, assuring the world, for example, that the Palestinian offices were closed while letting them set up shop in ''apartments.'' It was a strategy that worked well for Hafez al-Assad, Bashar's father and predecessor as president, who would often rely on proxies to carry on his battles while he tried to use Syria's influence with the Palestinian groups as a bargaining chip to advance Syria's agenda. 
 But that same strategy is now exposing some of the weakness and indecision plaguing the government. Faced with a United Nations investigation into the assassination of Rafik Hariri, a former Lebanese prime minister, a crisis that threatens to undermine the ruling circle, the Syrian leadership has returned to form, resorting to cold war-style rhetoric and relying almost exclusively on an appeal to the faded concept of Arab nationalism to rally regional support.
 The crisis has highlighted how Mr. Assad's efforts to bring young, forward-looking technocrats into the government have largely failed, and how isolated Syria has become. And it has demonstrated, perhaps most disturbingly to many younger, reform-minded Syrians, how tone-deaf the leadership can be. 
 For example, after the United Nations Security Council voted Monday to demand that Syria cooperate with the Hariri investigation, many people here said they had been shocked to hear Syria's foreign minister, Farouk al-Sharaa, suggest that saying Syrian security forces knew about the killing in advance would be like saying the United States knew about Sept. 11 in advance, or Spain about the Madrid train bombings, or Britain about the subway attacks.
 Syrians seem uniformly convinced that the investigation is being used by the West to bend the Assad government to its will. But that is not translating into support for the government or for its approach to managing the investigation. Worse, people here say, the crisis has begun to change the public's perception of its leaders, shaking their confidence in the ability of the leadership not just to fight back, but to survive. 
 ''The regime is crippled at the highest, closest, smallest circle,'' said a Syrian political analyst who has worked closely with the people in power here over the years, but said he had to speak anonymously for fear of retribution.
 And so there is a debate within the inner circle, this analyst said. On one side are the conservatives who want to try to preserve Syria's role in the region, its use of surrogates, like Hezbollah in Lebanon, or its support for the Palestinian cause. On the other side, the analyst said, is a smaller group inside the government looking to shore up Syria's strength by taking steps to calm the critics and to improve Syria's domestic political, economic and social situation.
 At the moment, the analyst said, the conservatives seem to be prevailing, adding that it is hard to know where the president stands in the debate.
 When Mr. Assad first came to power five years ago, he brought in young educated Syrians, many from abroad, who were keen to usher their country into modernity, economically and politically.
 Now almost all of those people are gone, and those remaining have been largely marginalized. Curiously, the conservatives have been simultaneously empowered by the Hariri crisis and, in a broader sense, undermined by it. 
 It is commonly heard here that the public would be willing to endure sanctions and international isolation if the government were in trouble for its stand on the Palestinian cause or for its positions on Iraq, but not over the Hariri affair. That was evidenced Tuesday when the authorities tried to organize a sit-in outside the United States Embassy. They hung flags, set up speakers and blared music. A few hundred people showed up at first, but the crowd quickly started to thin. Security agents were seen ordering young people to stay put as they tried to walk off.
 Many officials here are saying they were duped by Detlev Mehlis, the German prosecutor leading the Hariri investigation. Several officials said they were shocked when he said Syria had not cooperated.
 Officials here said in interviews that Mr. Mehlis never once expressed any discontent during his two days in Damascus, and that he must have been setting Syria up to fail.
 ''Do you want full cooperation, exactly what do you want?'' said a Syrian official close to the president who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to discuss foreign policy. ''We gave what we thought was full cooperation without any objection of the Mehlis team. Not any objection. They did not record a single objection. So what is cooperation? I don't understand.''
 There is some sympathy for Syria's position here in Damascus, with Western diplomats acknowledging that Syria has taken some steps to meet foreign demands, such as tightening its borders to impede the flow of militants and weapons into Iraq and encouraging the Palestinians in Damascus to support the Palestinian Authority and not to sponsor militant actions in Lebanon, Gaza or the West Bank.
 But even for diplomats, trying to figure out what Syria's leaders are really up to is a bit like reading tea leaves. At the conclusion of his meeting last month with the Palestinian factions, for instance, President Assad sat with all of the leaders for a picture. That the head of Hamas was seated by his side was taken by many outside Damascus as a warning and a threat that Syria was reverting to its old ways.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A Syrian security officer keeps watch at a sit-in Tuesday outside the American Embassy.
 A photograph of President Bashar al-Assad hangs at the entrance to Qerdaha, the Assad family's hometown. (Photographs by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HAMAS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); RELIGION (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (58%); PALESTINE LIBERATION FRONT (58%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (58%); HAMAS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) SYRIA (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (92%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



42 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Reagan's Second-Half Comeback

BYLINE: By Kenneth M. Duberstein. 
Kenneth M. Duberstein was White House chief of staff from 1988 to 1989.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IN the depths of the Iran-contra fallout in early 1987, President Ronald Reagan was at 37 percent approval in some polls, lower than President Bush is today. Many viewed him as not just a lame duck but a dead duck. Pundits and politicians predicted that the country would drift aimlessly for the last two years of his term. The Soviet Union would become more adventurous abroad. And a Democrat would next win the presidency.
 Obviously, none of those things happened. And if George W. Bush is going to change his presidential momentum, he might take a few lessons from the Reagan playbook. 
First, every second term needs new blood. Reagan's initial move was to change his inner circle: he dismissed old hands like Donald Regan, John Poindexter and Oliver North, and brought former Senator Howard Baker as chief of staff, me as his deputy, Frank Carlucci as national security adviser, and a little-known general, Colin Powell, as Mr. Carlucci's second in command. Not only were we experienced managers and not tainted by Iran-contra, but Senator Baker gave the operation an instant dose of integrity: it was he, as a Republican legislator during Watergate, who demanded, ''What did the president know, and when did he know it?''
 Together, we made an important structural change, ending the historical antagonism between the National Security Council, which wants the president's ear, and the White House staff, which wants to control all information going into the Oval Office. We decided to reach agreement among ourselves on policies before we presented them to the president. 
 Stopping the infighting was vital to the success of our biggest issue: the summit meetings with Mikhail Gorbachev in December 1987 and June 1988. The national security team made clear to Senator Baker and me what they felt was necessary in terms of international affairs, while we impressed on them that foreign policy always has domestic and political ramifications as well. The result was a treaty banning intermediate-range nuclear missiles that improved security and played well with the American public. 
 We felt it was vital that the public see the administration as being politically effective. Some steps were symbolic: we made sure that whenever there was good economic news to report, the president always did it himself, whether it was a few lines added to a speech or an informal drop-by with the White House press corps.
 More significantly, we had to find some victories on Capitol Hill, even if it meant rethinking past policies. For example, until 1987 the White House had opposed a bill to pay some reparations for the internment of Japanese-Americans in World War II. We revisited the issue, and Reagan became convinced that not only was the bill a decent thing to do, but money for it could be found in existing budgets and that it would be passed overwhelmingly in Congress. As a bonus, his decision helped renew ties with the opposition: the main sponsor of the bill was a Democrat, Representative Norman Mineta, who is now of course secretary of transportation under President Bush and a longtime symbol of bipartisanship. 
 We also stopped tilting at windmills. When our team came aboard, the Office of Management and Budget had threatened a presidential veto of virtually every appropriations bill in Congress; the result was that the threat had lost all meaning. We re-examined each bill individually, and found ways to compromise on many, winning more than our share. This did not, however, mean caving in: faced with a defense authorization bill that would have gutted his beloved Strategic Defense Initiative, the president wielded his veto and prevailed. 
 In addition, we opened the doors of the West Wing to fresh voices. For example, cabinet meetings are traditionally dog-and-pony shows -- every department head gives a brief summary of his achievements, which is quickly forgotten. So we decided to forget the big table and give each cabinet member 15 minutes a week to present his concerns to the president one-on-one.
 In particular, I remember that Richard Lyng, the secretary of agriculture, gave an impassioned talk about drought damage in the Midwest. As a result, the president quickly took a trip to the stricken farms and called for federal relief -- in this, he made just the sort of connection to the concerns of average Americans that President Bush is being criticized for failing at.
 As for dealing with the press, we decided to lose the bunker mentality. Reagan then paid great attention to the shouted questions of reporters like Sam Donaldson, Lou Cannon and Andrea Mitchell, as he believed they informed him of what Americans really wanted to know. (The reporters, in turn, played along whenever Reagan, about to board Marine One outside the White House, would cup his ear and pretend to be straining to make out the questions over the roar of the blades.) 
 Finally, and also relevant to President Bush's situation, there was Reagan's (belated) apology over Iran-contra. He didn't want to do it, and getting him to do it was like having a root canal, but it was vital to repairing his relationship with the public. 
 The result: in what had been predicted as a do-nothing final two years of his presidency, Reagan got his welfare reform plan and the Canada Free Trade Agreement passed, all 13 appropriations bills went through on time, the nuclear treaty was ratified, and a Supreme Court justice (Anthony Kennedy) was confirmed overwhelmingly by a Democratic Senate. On leaving office, Reagan was at 68 percent job approval, and his vice president had been elected as his successor. 
 No, not everything we did applies to the current administration's troubles. But perhaps looking to the past can help President Bush pull off his own inevitable comeback. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); BUDGETS (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ASIAN AMERICANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2005



43 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Goodbye, My Sweet Deduction; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: Tax Plan Could Raise Homeowners' Costs

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER and DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
There are no cows more sacred in the tax code than the deductions for mortgage interest and property taxes. Together, they add up to at least a $75 billion annual subsidy for housing and homeowners. President Bush, in establishing his advisory panel on tax reform, specifically asked the group to preserve support for home ownership.
 So it was quite a shock that the panel, which released its final report on Tuesday, concluded that it had no choice but to significantly trim the home mortgage deduction and eliminate state and local tax deductions if it wanted to find a way to simplify the income tax.
By combining that move with a variety of other measures, the panel was also able to bury the alternative minimum tax, a complex tax originally intended to prevent the wealthy from escaping taxes that is now starting to hit millions of otherwise ordinary upper-middle-class families who have a typical range of itemized deductions and personal exemptions. 
 The panel had a powerful rationale behind its proposal: many economists say the real estate subsidy is one of the tax code's most unfair features, overwhelmingly benefiting the affluent and pulling investment from the rest of the economy into the housing sector.
 But for millions of homeowners, what no doubt matters most about the plan is how it affects their bottom line. And for many of them, especially those living in houses in expensive markets in California and the Northeast, the answer is clear: If it becomes law, the value of their homes will almost certainly fall.
 The pain that would be caused by putting an end to deductions for mortgage interest and property taxes explains a lot of the motivation behind the attacks that greeted the panel's proposals.
 ''I think the short-run prospects of Congress adopting these are very low,'' said Joel B. Slemrod, the director of the Office of Tax Policy Research at the University of Michigan. ''They take away a lot of the deductions and credits that people have gotten used to, and we know that losers cry louder than winners sing.''
 The plan by the presidential panel would reduce the mortgage deduction on homes in two ways.
 First, it would limit the amount of the mortgage eligible to be deducted, cutting it from the current cap of a little more $1 million to as low as $227,000 in cheaper housing markets like Springfield, Ohio, to as high as $412,000 in places like New York and many of its suburbs.
 Second, families would receive a credit equal to 15 percent of the interest paid on a mortgage below the cap, rather than a deduction that can be worth as much as 35 percent for taxpayers at the high end of the income scale. 
 Just about everybody involved in the housing and real estate market has raised objections to this proposal. In a statement released Monday, the National Association of Realtors estimated that home prices across the nation would fall by 15 percent, with ''a devastating effect on the nation's housing economy.'' The Mortgage Bankers Association called the proposals ''a tax increase for a lot of working Americans.''
 Even supporters of the changes acknowledge that house prices would fall. ''Almost any economic analysis will conclude that there will be some downward effect on prices, especially at the top of the market,'' said James Poterba, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who is on the president's panel. ''The question is how large it will be.''
 The elimination of the deduction for state and local taxes, including property taxes, also has the potential to bring down house values, especially in high-tax states like New York, California and New Jersey, where homes are selling at record-high prices. 
 One way to estimate the total impact is to calculate how the change would affect a household's monthly housing payments. If home buyers try to keep their monthly house payment steady, an analysis by Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic Policy Research in Washington, suggests, prices could fall by more than 20 percent in higher-priced markets like New York City. Even in cheaper markets, homes that are priced above the average could take a substantial hit. 
 A family living in Lansing, Mich., for example, with $90,000 in taxable income, would have a marginal income tax rate of 25 percent. In Lansing, the average home price is around $250,000.
 If that family were to buy a $500,000 home today with 20 percent down and a 6 percent fixed-rate mortgage -- a fairly typical arrangement -- the I.R.S. would effectively refund about $7,125 in the first year, according to Mr. Baker's analysis. Adding a 0.9 percent property tax, the total monthly payment, net of federal taxes, would be about $2,160.
 Under the new system, however, the family would receive a return of $2,250 from the I.R.S. -- 15 percent of the interest at the mortgage limit of $250,000 -- effectively pushing their net payment up by $400 each month. If the maximum monthly cost they could afford was $2,160, they would have to settle for a house worth about $70,000 less. 
 The more expensive the home, the larger the effect. According to a similar analysis by Mr. Baker, a family in the top tax bracket who today could afford a $1 million home in Manhattan would have to trim their budget by more than $200,000 to keep monthly payments the same. 
 To soften the blow, the panel proposed to phase the change in over five years. But as home buyers across the country were forced to cut back on the value of homes they could afford to buy, they would inevitably drag home prices down.
 ''If you look at it that way, you have to be prepared for prices to plunge,'' said Mr. Baker, who has long been expecting housing prices to drop for other reasons.
 Mr. Poterba argues that it is unlikely home prices would fall as much as others fear. For one, the changes would also slow investment in housing, reducing the supply of homes along with the demand. Methods of financing homes would also change in response to the tax laws. 
 Notwithstanding homeowners' pain, reducing the tax code's subsidy to housing is a sound idea, many economists say. ''It's an appropriate change to the tax code,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, a research firm. ''While it may have made sense a quarter of a century ago, now I don't see a compelling advantage to providing these tax advantages to housing.''
 To begin with, the mortgage deduction diverts capital from other industries by subsidizing investment in housing relative to other economic activities. Moreover, while the tax deductions were conceived to help people who otherwise could not afford to buy a home, the principal effect today is to encourage upper-income taxpayers to buy ever bigger and more expensive houses. 
 For all the talk of bolstering home ownership, said Edward L. Glaeser, an economics professor at Harvard, the mortgage tax deduction has done very little to help people into homes. He said the subsidy to taxpayers implicit in the deduction had varied widely over the last 40 years, going up and down with the fluctuation of inflation and interest rates. Yet home ownership over the period has drifted in a band of 63 to 69 percent. And home ownership levels in other affluent countries without such subsidies are generally no lower than in the United States.
 Instead, what the subsidy has done is encourage people to build and buy bigger and more expensive houses. ''The deduction increases the amount spent on housing,'' Mr. Glaeser said, ''but it has almost no effect on the home ownership rate.''
 Today, most of the mortgage tax advantages accrue to the rich rather than struggling first-time homeowners. More than 55 percent of the mortgage tax subsidy last year, according to the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, accrued to just 12 percent of taxpayers with incomes above $100,000.
 Low-income homeowners often do not claim the deduction, opting instead to take the $10,000 standard deduction available to families. Turning the deduction into a tax credit would equalize its value and make it available to more people on the lower end of the market.
 ''At the high end it reduces demand and will probably push prices down,'' Mr. Slemrod said. ''For low-end housing, it could go the other way around.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Rich Perk''People with higher incomes benefit more from the home mortgage interest deduction.ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME DEDUCTION PER $0RETURN to $30,000: $14$30,000 to $50,000: 171$50,000 to $75,000: 524$75,000 to $100,000: 1,325$100,000 to $200,000: 2,363$200,000 or more: 5,036AVERAGE: $591(Sources by Treasury Department
The President's Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform)(pg. C7)Chart: ''Reducing Receipts''There are many provisions that reduce taxes for individuals and businesses. Here are estimates for the value of the largest ones over five years, based on projections for 2006 through 2010.Health deductions and preferences: $887 billionIncentives for home ownership: 716Retirement savings preferences: 620Child credit: 225Charitable deductions: 217Earned-income tax credit: 202Step-up basis of capital gains at death: 164State and local tax deductions other than on owner-occupied homes: 163Social Security benefits: 148Capital gains (except for agriculture, timber, iron ore and coal): 144(Source by Treasury Department
The President's Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform)(pg. C7)Chart: ''It's Not Just Play Money''As part of a broad overhaul, a White House advisory group has proposed eliminating income tax deductions for property taxes and replacing the deduction for mortgage interest with a 15 percent tax credit, while capping the value of the qualifying mortgage. Here are two examples of how such a plan would effectively raise the cost of owning a home.ASSUMPTION IN EACH CASE20 percent down payment, 6 percent fixed-rate mortgage, 0.9 percent property tax
 mortgage caps vary by regionHOME PRICE: $1 millionOWNER'S TAX BRACKET: 35 percentMORTGAGE CAP (New York): $412,000CURRENTDEDUCTIONS: $19,950NET COST TO HOMEOWNER: $46,202GROSS MORTGAGE PAYMENTS AND PROPERTY TAXES: $66,152PROPOSEDCREDIT: $3,708NET COST TO HOMEOWNER: $62,444HOME PRICE: $500,000OWNER'S TAX BRACKET: 25 percentMORTGAGE CAP (Lansing, Mich.): $250,000GROSS MORTGAGE PAYMENTS AND PROPERTY TAXES: $33,076CURRENTDEDUCTIONS: $7,125NET COST TO HOMEOWNER: $25,951PROPOSEDCREDIT: $2,250NET COST TO HOMEOWNER: $30,826(Source by Center for Economic Policy Research)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAX REFORM (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); LEGISLATION (74%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); HOME PRICES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CENTRE FOR ECONOMIC POLICY RESEARCH (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (77%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005



44 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Yes, Immigration May Lift Wages

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel (dynamist.com) is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness.''

 BODY:
FROM 1990 to 2000, the number of people working in the United States grew by more than nine million, or around 8 percent, from immigration alone. What effect did all those new foreign-born workers have on the wages of native-born Americans?
 The answer seems obvious at first. An increase in the supply of workers should push down wages, just as a bumper crop of wheat drives down wheat prices. 
That is exactly what some influential economic studies, notably by George J. Borjas at Harvard, have found. In a 2003 article, for instance, Professor Borjas calculated that immigrants had depressed the average wage of American-born workers by about 3 percent in the 1990's.
 But workers are not as uniform as wheat, and 10 years is a long time -- long enough for employers to invest in new production and take on more workers. The model of surging supply meeting fixed demand is not realistic.
 As economists know all too well, changing the assumptions of a model can often change the results. In a new working paper for the National Bureau of Economic Research, two other economists using methodology similar to Professor Borjas's but different assumptions get the opposite result.
 In ''Rethinking the Gains From Immigration: Theory and Evidence From the U.S.,'' Gianmarco I. P. Ottaviano of the University of Bologna and Giovanni Peri of the University of California, Davis estimate that immigration in the 1990's increased the average wage of American-born workers by 2.7 percent. (The paper is available at www.econ.ucdavis.edu/faculty/gperi.)
 Although it still relies on a highly stylized model of the economy, their paper adds two complexities that bring it closer to reality.
 First, the two economists assume that businesses can make additional capital investments to take advantage of the expanded supply of workers. Companies may open new restaurants or stores, add new factory lines or build more houses.
 In their model, as in the real world, ''investment adjusts not to keep fixed the amount of capital but to keep fixed the return to capital,'' Professor Peri said. As long as businesses can profitably add new production, they hire more workers, and wages do not necessarily go down. Instead, he said, ''more workers means more business.''
 As businesses expand, hiring foreign-born workers to do one job may also require hiring more native-born workers with complementary skills. Immigrant engineers, for instance, may create demand for native-born patent lawyers and marketing executives.
 That is the paper's second refinement. It assumes that immigrants do not always compete for the same jobs as American-born workers. The two groups are not ''perfect substitutes,'' even when they have similar education and the same occupation. A Chinese cook is not the same as a Texas barbecue chef.
 Immigrants often bring different skills to the American labor force, and concentrate on different occupations from natives. Among high school dropouts, the paper notes, the ''foreign-born are highly overrepresented in professions like tailors (54 percent were foreign-born in 2000) and plaster-stucco masons (44 percent were foreign-born in 2000).'' By contrast, American-born workers make up more than 99 percent of all crane operators and sewer-pipe cleaners.
 The same is true at the highest educational levels, where foreign-born college graduates make up 44 percent of all medical scientists but only 4 percent of lawyers. (Immigrants tend to be concentrated at the highest and lowest levels of income and education.)
 Immigrants do, of course, compete to some extent with native-born workers. The question is how much.
 To measure wage competition, the economists looked at how much an increase in the number of foreign-born workers affects the wages of other foreign-born workers versus American-born workers with the same educational background. If the groups were perfect substitutes, the change would be the same.
 But there is a difference. When the number of immigrant college graduates goes up by 4 percent, their wages drop by 1 percent more than the wages of native-born college graduates. Immigrants, in other words, compete more with each other than with American-born workers.
 Professors Ottaviano and Peri find that recent immigration has had the most negative effects on the least educated.
 Immigration in the 1990's, they estimate, raised the wages of native-born high school graduates, college dropouts and college graduates by at least 2.5 percent. By contrast, they estimate that the wages of American-born high school dropouts fell by 2.4 percent because of immigration.
 In an interview, however, Professor Peri noted that Americans are increasingly well educated, so that high school dropouts make up a small, rapidly declining portion of today's native-born work force. In 2000, he said, only 9 percent of American-born workers did not have a high school degree.
 ''If you look at the U.S. labor force,'' he said, ''those people born in the U.S., I am talking about a negative effect for about 9 percent of the population and a positive effect for 91 percent of the population.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); WHEAT MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (72%); WHEAT FARMING (71%); RESTAURANTS (62%); PATENTS (50%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNIFORM AS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005



45 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: CALENDAR

 BODY:

Antiques on the Hudson
Piers 88, 90 and 92, Twelfth Avenue between 48 and 55th Streets; (212) 255-0020.
 The Triple Pier Antique Show will take place Saturday and Sunday and on Nov. 12 and 13. Each weekend more than 600 dealers will offer everything from vintage clothes to New York City memorabilia. Pier 88, which will be open from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. each day, will feature glassware, Art Deco furniture, toys, jewelry and artworks from the 20th century. The theme on Pier 90, which will be open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., is Americana, with sales of folk art, Arts & Crafts furniture, quilts, posters and garden antiques. The third area, Pier 92, will be open from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., and will feature classical antiques, including period lamps and furniture, Asian art, prints, silver serving sets and portraits.
Admission is $15; those 15 and younger, free.

Architecture in the Public Eye
Van Alen Institute, 30 West 22nd Street, Sixth Floor; (609) 258-9065.
 
 ''The Politics of Design: Competitions for Public Projects,'' a two-day symposium, will start with a lecture on Nov. 17 at 6 p.m. by Bernard Tschumi, an architect and former dean of the school of architecture at Columbia University. The symposium is sponsored by the institute and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs and the School of Architecture, both at Princeton University. Participants, including architects, policy-makers, designers and public planners, will explore the influence of economic and political forces on public design competitions. 
 Reservations are required for both programs. The symposium, which is free, will continue on Nov. 18 at 9:30 a.m. at Robertson Hall at the Woodrow Wilson School, on Washington Road and Prospect Street, Princeton, N.J.

Colonial New York
Queens Historical Society at Kingsland Homestead, 143-35 37th Avenue between Parsons Boulevard and Bowne Street, Flushing, N.Y.; (718) 939-0647.
 Irma Wesley, a historian, will offer an illustrated lecture on historic houses in Queens and Brooklyn, on Sunday at 2:30 p.m. The sites will include the Vander-Ende Onderdonk House, a 1731 Dutch Colonial house in Ridgewood, Queens, and the 1652 Wyckoff Farmhouse Museum in the Flatlands section of Brooklyn, which is the oldest building in New York City. Free with admission of $3; students and those 65 and older, $2.

Art and Science
New York Botanical Garden, 200th Street and Southern Boulevard, the Bronx; (718) 817-8700.
 ''Plants and Fungi: Ten Current Research Stories,'' a permanent exhibition which opened last month in the recently renovated Library Building, is designed to highlight efforts by scientists at the botanical garden to learn about evolution, economic uses and ecological roles in the plant world. The displays will change as the research topics change. For now, they are about mushrooms, blueberries, mosses, rice, Brazil nuts, squashes, lichens, vanilla orchids, ferns and cycads. The displays include specimens, maps, digital images and photographs.
 The library building, built in 1899 by Robert Gibson, has been redesigned to create a series of gallery spaces in the rotundas and several other rooms. In addition, the Lillian Goldman Fountain of Life, a 100-year-old Beaux-Arts sculpture in front of the library, was recently restored. A second exhibition in the library, ''Flowers by Redoute: Artist for an Empire,'' of books, prints, portraits and correspondence featuring works by the botanical illustrator Pierre-Joseph Redoute (1759-1840), will run through Jan. 22. 
 The garden is open Tuesday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission is $13; students and those 65 and older, $11; children 2 to 12, $5. 

Crafts in Philadelphia
Pennsylvania Convention Center, 12th and Arch Streets, Philadelphia; (215) 684-7930.
 The 29th annual Philadelphia Craft Show will open with a preview party on Wednesday, from 6 to 9 p.m. Tickets, $200, will benefit the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
 The show by 195 artists will be open Nov. 10 and 11, from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Nov. 12, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Nov. 13, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. There will be lectures, demonstrations, an auction of several works inspired by classic German steins and tankards, and sales of such handmade items as gold earrings, woven baskets, dyed shawls, wood furniture, ceramic platters, leather belts and glass artworks. 
 Admission is $15; a two-day pass is $20; children under 12, $5. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); HISTORY (89%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (63%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (63%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005



46 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Colorado Cap On Spending Is Suspended 

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DENVER, Nov. 2 

 BODY:
The national movement to impose caps on state taxes and spending took a sharp blow in Tuesday's election, conservatives and liberals say, when Colorado voters decided that the tightest spending cap in the nation was just a tad too tight.
 A statewide ballot proposition, Referendum C, approved by about 52 percent of the voters, will allow state government to keep a projected $3.7 billion over the next five years. The money would otherwise have been refunded to residents under what is called the Taxpayers' Bill of Rights, which was put into Colorado's Constitution in 1992. A second proposal that would have allowed the state to borrow up to $2.1 billion for roads, school maintenance and other projects was narrowly defeated. 
''The movement to get tax limitations in other states would have been better off if Coloradans had voted down Referendum C,'' said Stephen Slivinski, the director of budget studies at the Cato Institute, a conservative research and advocacy group in Washington. ''It might take some of the wind out of their sails.''
 Tax- and spending-limit proposals have been under discussion in Arizona, California, Kansas, Nevada, Oklahoma and Wisconsin, among other states. Maine and Ohio are likely to have Colorado-inspired bills on their ballots in November 2006, tax experts said. 
 Tuesday's vote split conservatives, with Gov. Bill Owens, a Republican, leading the fight for the proposal. Mr. Owens argued during the campaign that he was in fact saving the tax cap, which is known as Tabor. Without a temporary breather, he said, a looming fiscal crisis and the inability to pay for essential services could have led to a repeal of the whole law, which he said he still supported.
 But some conservatives who had held out Colorado's law as a citadel to be defended at all costs were in no mood for nuance. Mr. Owens, many said, betrayed his party. 
 ''If you're a Republican governor or aspiring governor, what you learned from this is that opposition to a spending limit destroys a political career -- this guy stood in front of a train,'' Grover Norquist, the founder and president of Americans for Tax Reform, an antitax group based in Washington, said in an interview. 
 Liberals were just as energized.
 ''This is a stinging rebuke of those who want to cut programs and attack middle-class and low-income families in the name of tax cuts that mainly benefit the wealthy,'' said Gregg Haifley, the deputy director of public policy for People for the American Way, a liberal advocacy group. 
 Mr. Owens, who will leave office in January 2007, ushered out after two terms by another kind of cap -- term limits -- said in an interview that history would be the judge.
 ''Where I come out is with the pride of knowing that when I finish as governor I will have done the right thing for Colorado, and that's hugely important to me,'' he said. ''I inherited a Tabor that was imperfect, and I fixed it, after the worst recession in a century.''
 Mr. Owens said he planned to work in the private sector after leaving his job, so the political fallout was of lesser concern. 
 Whether the tax cap was really in crisis was part of the debate.
 Supporters of the referendum said the recession in Colorado a revealed a flaw in the law, which is based on the idea that government should grow no faster than population plus the rate of inflation. When tax revenues began to fall in 2001 -- ultimately declining a total of 16 percent over two years -- the cap's collar of restraint went down, too. 
 And then the budget could not recover, the referendum's supporters said. Budgets under Tabor are calculated year to year -- the amount of revenue the state is allowed to keep and spend under the cap becomes the basis for the next year's budget, adjusted by the formula. So spending levels were locked in at recessionary levels even as the economy improved, creating an inability to restore crucial programs that were cut during the lean times, Mr. Owens and others said.
 Opponents of the ballot measure argued that elected officials were simply too weak-kneed to make tough calls on spending cuts, and were looking for ways to water down the law or weaken it so it might be more easily repealed.
 Across the state, there were few other major races or campaigns to compete with the tax-and-budget spotlight. Here in Denver, however, voters approved an ordinance that makes possession of small amounts of marijuana legal. State criminal possession laws still apply, so the Denver measure is considered largely symbolic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); REFERENDUMS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); TAX REFORM (75%); TERM LIMITS (73%); TAX CONSULTING (73%); APPROVALS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005



47 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Mural Comments About Water, and a City Doesn't Like It

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: BISHOP, Calif., Oct. 27 

 BODY:
A new mural here depicts an idyllic Owens Valley, with a lush meadow, a surging river and snow-capped mountains.
 And then there is the matter of one jarring detail -- a big rusty drainpipe etched with the letters LADWP, for Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, sucking the color and, metaphorically, the water out of the vista.
The mural, called ''Drain,'' seeks to portray, in a trompe l'oeil way, the fact that Los Angeles virtually bought the river here a century ago and diverted much of its water more than 200 miles south to develop the parched, dusty town that has become the nation's second-largest city. That deft move was depicted, with some Hollywood distortion, in the 1974 movie ''Chinatown.'' 
 What has happened since the mural went up on the side of a commercial building early in October suggests that although the water wars that defined the settling of the West have quieted, the hard feelings remain very much alive.
 Many in town, long regarding their relationship with Los Angeles as somewhat like colony to court, nod approvingly at the work. But the Los Angeles water agency, one of the biggest property owners around here, is not happy and has retaliated with fury. 
 It canceled a $500 donation to the Bishop Mural Society, which approved the work, and promised in a letter from its regional manager, Gene L. Coufal, to ''more closely scrutinize all requests for assistance throughout the Owens Valley,'' something many in town take as a threat.
 ''It's unfortunate that at a time like this with so much terrorism, violence, hatred and war in the world, such a false and negative depiction of Los Angeles's Owens Valley water-gathering activities would be produced,'' Mr. Coufal wrote.
 Another official, Brian Tillemans, the watershed resource manager, said the mural failed to take into account the agency's good stewardship of land it owned.
 ''Los Angeles has kept the watershed undeveloped and in good condition to protect the water supply of Los Angeles from urbanization, pollution and other threats,'' Mr. Tillemans wrote in a letter to The Inyo Register, noting, among other points, the benefits to recreation and wildlife in the valley.
 Lynette McIntosh, who owns Window Fair, the store where the mural is painted, said Mr. Coufal's wife had warned her that employees of the utility would not shop there, though later she apologized ''for the way she acted.'' 
 The town is astir with rumors that utility employees have threatened to boycott other businesses with connections to the mural society. The president of the society, Barbel Ackermann-Williams, declined to comment on such talk, but defended the mural as ''both beautiful and historically correct.''
 ''Public art has caused controversy throughout the ages, though it was unintentional in this case,'' Ms. Ackermann-Williams said.
 Earlier, Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles promised to improve relations with the valley, which has for decades tangled in court with the city over water diversions. Joe Ramallo, a spokesman for the mayor, said that Mr. Coufal's ''letter should not have been sent'' and that Mr. Villaraigosa ''welcomes projects like this.'' 
 Deputy Mayor Nancy Sutley said the mayor had expressed his dismay to managers at the water department. A spokeswoman for the agency would not comment on the mural.
 John Pugh, the San Francisco Bay Area artist who painted the work as part of a series of historical murals going up all over this small town, said he meant no ill will toward Los Angeles.
 Although Mr. Coufal wrote in his letter that ''it's obvious the scenes depicted in the mural are not realistic portrayals'' of the valley then or now, Mr. Pugh said they were based on scores of photographs and paintings. The scene depicted is a composite image inspired by sites around the valley, he said.
 ''It was meant to be edgy,'' Mr. Pugh said, ''but it was a historical concept mural that has been transformed into a historical, political issue.''
 Although there may not actually be a rusty drainpipe like the one in the picture -- Mr. Pugh said the drainpipe idea came to him one day while taking a shower -- he said people would understand the metaphor.
 ''I am not unhappy it has become controversial,'' he said of his work, if only because people are talking about their feelings. ''By keeping it quiet, it is like a dysfunctional family.'' 
 Jerry Core, the owner of a title company and the building with the mural, covered most of Mr. Pugh's $30,000 fee. Mr. Core also reimbursed the mural society for the $500 that the water department declined to provide.
 ''A picture says a thousand words I guess,'' Mr. Core said, ''and this one I guess hits very close to home.''
 John Walton, a professor at the University of California, Davis, who has written on the water wars, said the mural was a fair representation of Los Angeles's taking water from the valley. But Professor Walton said the mural fed into the legend that the valley would have been an agricultural wonderland if Los Angeles had not intruded.
 ''Two things are true,'' he said. ''L.A. forcibly acquired the water, and the agricultural economy of the valley was always precarious. The first fact has led many to romanticize the second.''
 Barbara Ferrey-Laughon, the president of the Chamber of Commerce and the former editor of The Inyo Register, said the subject was so sensitive that it would have been nearly impossible to create a painting about it without upsetting somebody.
 ''I think a lot of the wounds that occurred in the water wars haven't healed,'' Ms. Ferrey-Laughon said. ''They are covered over for a little bit, and then something like this picks at it.''
 Christopher Stube, a landscape artist who recently dropped by to inspect the mural, said he had mixed feelings. But like many others, Mr. Stube said the Los Angeles water officials had overreacted and ''would have done themselves a favor if they just ignored the mural.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Pugh with his mural ''Drain'' in Bishop, Calif. He said he meant no ill will toward Los Angeles. (Photo by Theo Rigby for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (89%); WATER RIGHTS (78%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); URBANIZATION (74%); CITY LIFE (74%); APPROVALS (66%); TERRORISM (63%); BOYCOTTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005



48 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Politics and Deficit Shadow Louisiana's Special Session

BYLINE: By JEREMY ALFORD

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Nov. 2 

 BODY:
Having called a special session of the Legislature for this weekend that will be pivotal to Louisiana's recovery, Gov. Kathleen Babineaux Blanco has prepared an ambitious agenda for lawmakers, with issues including tax incentives for redevelopment, better management of levees and a possible takeover of some New Orleans schools. 
 But a looming hole that may exceed $1 billion in the state's current budget could overshadow all else during the 17-day session, which begins Sunday evening. Layoffs and early retirements of state employees are expected, as are severe cuts to programs and services. 
The session is likely to be the first major test of the state's ability to transcend political and regional divisions and reach agreement on plans for recovery. Some federal and municipal officials wonder whether lawmakers are up to the job, and the governor has made it clear that she does not want to be bogged down in politics as usual.
 ''I'm asking legislators to put aside partisanship, historical and regional differences and take a fresh, new look at the recovery,'' Ms. Blanco, a first-term Democrat, said Tuesday.
 The Legislature's Republican minority has made a show of opposing her administration's priorities in recent sessions, but Ms. Blanco was careful to include a few Republican initiatives in her agenda for the special session, thus broadening its scope significantly and possibly gaining allies. To help businesses get back on their feet, she has proposed eliminating sales taxes on new machinery and equipment, exempting new debt from the corporate franchise tax and reducing sales taxes on electricity and natural gas.
 But the idea of reducing revenue through tax incentives in a state already starved for cash is drawing both skepticism and optimism. 
 ''I don't sense they have a good handle on what the financial ramifications will be,'' said Barry Erwin, president of the Council for a Better Louisiana, a group that monitors the activities of state government. ''But they know some of these things need to be done to start the recovery and stimulate the economy.'' 
 Steve J. Scalise, a Republican legislator from the New Orleans suburb of Metairie, said most of his colleagues were willing to compromise in the hope that the end result would send a clear message to Congress as to what Louisiana needs.
 ''From our perspective, we've been working with the governor on several proposals already,'' Mr. Scalise said. ''I think it's critical that we move beyond the politics of the past and send a message that we're dealing with these problems.'' 
 But earnest declarations, especially this early, may be nothing more than wishful thinking, said Jim Nickel, a Baton Rouge lobbyist and former chairman of the Louisiana Democratic Party, who foresees plenty of political maneuvering.
 ''Everything that goes on in that building is political,'' Mr. Nickel said of the state's high-rise Capitol. ''Whoever tells you it's not is lying.''
 Among the more contentious issues expected to be discussed during the session will be a set of proposals to overhaul state oversight of levee boards, some of which have histories of corruption. Some critics have said the New Orleans levee operators share responsibility for the recent flooding, and the Orleans Levee Board president resigned last week amid accusations that he had awarded contracts to relatives.
 ''Some of these levee board commissioners would sell their mothers' gold teeth to keep their positions,'' said Warren J. Triche Jr., a Democrat who is vice chairman of the House Appropriations Committee. ''This brother-in-law business has been going on for years, and it has to stop. We need one person in an authoritative position to be responsible to the people.'' 
 The governor also wants more control over New Orleans public schools. Current law already gives the state this authority, but only for schools that are failing on the basis of statewide test scores. Ms. Blanco's proposal would allow the state to take control of schools falling anywhere below the statewide average. 
 Officials say charter schools and university partners would play a major role in the plan, which as a concept has already won some support from Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans and the local school board. 
 Dan Juneau, president of the Louisiana Association of Business and Industry, one of the state's most influential lobbies, said voters were expecting an efficient and high-minded response from legislators. 
 ''If we don't see some real leadership in this session, if people don't step up,'' Mr. Juneau said, ''there's going to be blood in the streets during the next elections.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); SALES TAX (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (64%); CORPORATE TAX (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: KATHLEEN BLANCO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005



49 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Club Stays Hot at Ripe Old Age of 2 

BYLINE: By LOLA OGUNNAIKE

 BODY:
It's 11:30 on a Thursday night, early by this city's party clocks, and already a substantial line has formed in front of Marquee, one of Manhattan's hottest nightclubs. There are men done up in blazers and designer denim, women in sparkly cleavage-baring tops. 
 Their sad, familiar fate is preordained: For every person who makes it past the velvet rope, dozens will be rejected. Surveying the growing crowd, Rich Thomas, Marquee's venerable doorman, says without a hint of remorse, ''Most of these people waiting in line are not likely to get in.''
There have been of-the-moment clubs in New York City since before the first cocktail was shaken. But in recent years, most of these clubs have been over faster than a meal with Nicole Richie. So it is quite an achievement that on Dec. 8, Marquee, on 10th Avenue between 26th and 27th Streets, will celebrate its second anniversary still buzzing. 
 What is its secret? Though small, with a legal capacity of 600, Marquee has developed a large reputation for being a destination for celebrities and the city's glitterati. So the allure to the less-than-boldfaced is that, at any moment, one could be rubbing elbows (or other body parts) with a somebody.
 On Monday Cameron Diaz and her boyfriend, Justin Timberlake, held a Halloween party at Marquee. Mariah Carey and Glenn Close have D.J.'d there. In recent weeks, Chelsea Clinton, Drew Barrymore, Diddy, the Olsen twins, Allen Iverson and the Rock have all put in appearances. 
 In this celebrity-sotted age, plenty of people are panting to get into the club, so Mr. Thomas can be choosy. He is coy about what makes a person Marquee-worthy, but it becomes painfully clear rather quickly that only the fashionable, famous or financially secure need apply. 
 ''I've never had a problem,'' says Lea Katz, a regular -- file her under fabulous -- ''but they are very picky, and the truth is it's not nice, but that's why they're on top, because they get what they want.'' 
 It's nearing midnight and just as Mr. Thomas is turning away one husky young man, who claims his girlfriend is already inside, Stella Keitel (daughter of Harvey) waltzes to the front of the line with a gaggle of girlfriends. She and Mr. Thomas exchange cheek kisses and pleasantries. ''I love you, Richie,'' Ms. Keitel coos as she traipses in, leaving soon-to-be-shattered egos in her dust. 
 Soon after, Andrew Gitkin, a principal investor in the club, approaches, and he and his crew are immediately shown to a table in the main room just off the club's entrance. Tables near the front door are prime real estate, explains Mr. Gitkin, who is in the hedge fund business.
 Within minutes, Maria, a mono-named waitress, who makes the tennis babe Anna Kournikova look like a gnome, struts over with ice, a $650 bottle of Grey Goose vodka and a $1,100 bottle of Cristal rose (courtesy of nightclub inflation). Just like that, several women start swarming. Gwen Stefani's ''Hollaback Girl'' is blaring in the background. 
 Tonight Robert Iler of ''The Sopranos,'' Kenan Thompson of ''Saturday Night Live'' and the R&B singer Usher freely flit about. ''It's the type of place you can come and know that no one is going to mess with you,'' says Usher, who frequents the club. 
 Lindsay Lohan and Tara Reid, the ubiquitous party girls, have passed many an evening at Marquee. Bono, Leonardo DiCaprio, Jessica Simpson, Naomi Campbell and Mick Jagger have also been known to drop by. 
 ''One night I was dancing right next to George Clooney,'' squeals a woman named Margaret who is wearing red stilettos and a miniskirt the size of a headband. ''Can you believe it? I was right next to him.'' 
 By 1 a.m., the party is in full swing. Drinks are flowing, revelers are, well, reveling, and the D.J. has pulled out the heavy hip-hop artillery: 50 Cent, Lil' Kim, vintage Jay-Z. Kanye West's current hit, ''Gold Digger,'' nearly causes convulsions. 
 ''One to 3 a.m. are our peak hours,'' says Noah Tepperberg, one of Marquee's founders. Mr. Tepperberg, 30, and his partner, Jason Strauss, 31, are the iPod generation's Ian Schrager and Steve Rubell (without the prison stints). They have been in the night life business since high school, promoting parties at bygone legendary nightspots like Life, Cheetah and Kit Kat Club. The two were also managing partners in the clubs Suite 16 and Conscience Point Inn, the site of the publicist Lizzie Grubman's infamous car crash. 
 Over the years, Mr. Tepperberg and Mr. Strauss have amassed a Rolodex that reads like an issue of US Weekly. So placing the famous in the club for maximum impact becomes a 3-D chess game. Standing near Mr. Gitkin's table, Mr. Tepperberg explains his strategy. Tables in Marquee's main room are designated for models, celebrities and people willing to pay for proximity.
 ''Customers spend extra money to be near the image tables,'' Mr. Tepperberg says. Pointing to a piece of wood no bigger than a suitcase, he says, ''On average this table is worth $1,000 -- that's three bottles of vodka, plus tax.'' 
 And there are those who will gladly pay to play. While waiting in line for the men's bathroom upstairs, Malik Shahbaziyawaz (file him under financially secure) eyes a petite beauty whose gold necklaces are disappearing into her ample bosom. Dressed in slacks and a shirt that hugs his sizable tummy, he smells as if he has backstroked through a pool of cologne. 
 ''It's Versace,'' he says proudly. Tonight, Mr. Shahbaziyawaz has already spent $900 on alcohol, including a $600 bottle of Johnny Walker Blue, his favorite. ''It's $200 in the store, but it's more fun here, and when you're having fun, you don't mind to pay.'' 
 Wednesday is the only night that Marquee, open Tuesday through Saturday, loses money, Mr. Tepperberg says. ''It's filled with hipsters that night, and they don't spend a lot.'' 
 Mr. Gitkin says he invested six figures in Marquee. He made his money back in a year and has received substantial quarterly payouts since. ''I've invested in stocks, bonds and currency in the past five years, but this has been one of the better performing returns,'' he says. 
 It's nearing the club's 4 a.m. closing, and outside a fleet of cabs wait patiently for potential passengers to emerge. The velvet rope has been retired. Mr. Thomas is nowhere to be found. And Mr. Tepperberg, who left an hour ago, is presumably in bed. 
 Not all are ready to call it quits. ''Do you have any condoms?'' one man can be overheard asking several partygoers leaving the club.


GRAPHIC: Photos: For every person allowed past Marquee's velvet rope, dozens are rejected. Only the fashionable, famous or financially secure need apply.
 To the clubgoing public, the allure of Marquee, a Chelsea nightspot, is the chance to rub elbows with a somebody. (Photographs by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); HALLOWEEN (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ASHLEY OLSEN (57%); MARY-KATE OLSEN (57%); DREW BARRYMORE (50%); CAMERON DIAZ (50%); JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (50%); MARIAH CAREY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005



50 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; BLOCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: At 9/11 Site, Design and Expense Collide

BYLINE: By David W. Dunlap

 BODY:
BENEATH a veneer of seamlessness, tension is evident between the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation and the World Trade Center Memorial Foundation as important -- and expensive -- construction questions begin to arise.
 It is not surprising that fissures would emerge, since it is the corporation's purpose to plan and design the memorial and the adjoining memorial museum, while it is the foundation's purpose to finance, construct and maintain them. In almost every building project of any consequence, design ambitions and cost consciousness eventually collide.
Both Stefan Pryor, the president of the corporation, and Gretchen Dykstra, the president and chief executive of the foundation, play down the idea of conflict. 
 ''I don't think of tension as bad,'' Ms. Dykstra said yesterday. ''Maybe it's creative tension and something better will come from it. We are focused on three things: respect for the memorial, the visitors' experience and cost.''
 And Mr. Pryor described the design and budgeting process as a conversation between the corporation, a four-year-old subsidiary of the Empire State Development Corporation, and the memorial foundation, a private, nonprofit corporation.
 ''We have developed a remarkably collaborative approach,'' he said. ''Wherever there are issues, we've managed to resolve them successfully.''
 They have yet to resolve the issue of the Snohetta building, however. That is the structure designed by the Norwegian firm Snohetta to serve as the home of the Drawing Center, which is now gone from plans for the site, and the International Freedom Center, which is now out of business.
 Even before the Drawing Center started searching for new space in July and Gov. George E. Pataki removed the Freedom Center as too controversial in September, questions were raised about the Snohetta building. Would it cost too much to span the column-free underground mezzanine of the PATH terminal directly below? Would construction of the terminal postpone work on the Snohetta building so long that it could not open simultaneously with the memorial?
 These questions have regained their currency as the memorial foundation, with $400 million to raise before it reaches its half-billion-dollar goal, looks at all levels of economy: whether, for example, to let the memorial fountains run year-round or whether the memorial's structural framework should be steel or reinforced concrete.
 TWO days after Governor Pataki removed the Freedom Center, Mr. Pryor said the corporation remained ''committed to the construction of the Snohetta building.''
 More recently, however, Ms. Dykstra shied away from such an unequivocal declaration. On the ''Road to City Hall'' show of Oct. 20, Davidson Goldin of NY1 News asked her whether the Snohetta building should be kept or scrapped.
 ''I think we have to let the process work out and see,'' she answered.
 Pressed further by Mr. Goldin as to whether she meant there was no need for the building, Ms. Dykstra said: ''We have to look at the balance between cost and need and program -- and most importantly, what does the visitor deserve.''
 Yesterday, neither she nor Mr. Pryor would, or could, say much more about the fate of the redesign.
 ''We are engaged in a design process,'' Mr. Pryor said. ''Snohetta is, on a very preliminary basis, examining the alternative possibilities. We don't have even a first draft of outcomes of that process yet.''
 Some kind of building on the site will almost certainly serve as a visitors' center -- the foundation is expecting seven million people a year -- with 9/11-related exhibits. ''Everyone involved contemplates a complementary but not redundant relationship with the museum,'' Mr. Pryor said. The building will probably be ''substantially smaller'' than the 250,000-square-foot version unveiled in May, he said.
 The take-back-the-memorial coalition that pushed for the removal of the Freedom Center and the Drawing Center is warily monitoring what it calls ''closed-door plans, including whether the Snohetta building will be reconfigured in its currently planned location, whether it will be moved to another part of the quadrant, or even built at all.''
 In a statement on Oct. 26, the coalition of 15 groups of victims' relatives called for ''a memorial which honors the lost, tells the true and inspiring history of that day and conveys a message of hope which survives the survivors. We believe that story would fill several Snohetta buildings.'' 
 One is proving tough enough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); GOVERNORS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005



51 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: Big Media a Tough Sell to Jittery Investors

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT and RICHARD SIKLOS

 BODY:
The media moguls are busier than ever. In the last few months, Rupert Murdoch, the News Corporation chairman, has announced a series of Web deals including the purchase of Myspace.com, a social networking site. Time Warner is in talks to sell a stake in a suddenly hot AOL. 
 Walt Disney, meanwhile, agreed to shake up its business model and distribute some of its television shows on the latest Apple iPod. Viacom is splitting itself in two. And Comcast announced a deal with Time Warner and other cable operators yesterday to add Sprint cellular service to its range of video, voice and high-speed Internet services.
While much of this activity is simply undoing some mistakes of the past, it is also meant to show that America's giant media companies are defending their turf and are well positioned to conquer the new digital era. 
 Media stocks bumped up yesterday on the prospects of financial moves at companies like Time Warner and Knight Ridder. In general, though, Wall Street is still not buying the new story. 
 Media stocks have been stuck in a malaise that has only deepened of late. Since Aug. 2, the share prices of News Corporation, Viacom, Comcast and Cablevision have fallen 6 to 17 percent in a period when the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.4 percent. Many other media stocks, including those of newspaper companies, have followed a similar trajectory.
 What investors cannot figure out is just how technological changes will affect audience behavior and how the growing competition from online media, including Google and Yahoo, as well as ad-skipping devices like TiVo and other digital video recorders, will affect traditional media companies. 
 Beyond those concerns, they worry that with slower advertising growth, the profitability of media properties like television and radio stations could be affected. And even if the ad market were to become robust again, just how many of those dollars might flow to the Internet and away from traditional media is an open question. 
 ''New technologies have always ended up giving content more advantages than disadvantages,'' Richard D. Parsons, the chairman and chief executive of Time Warner, said yesterday. ''I think they will again this time, but it's not clear to the market yet.''
 Indeed, Time Warner is an exception to the market trend, up about 5 percent since the beginning of August. But analysts said that was not so much because of the company's improving financial prospects as it was a reaction to attacks from the investor Carl C. Icahn and the news yesterday that the company will try to mollify Mr. Icahn and other investors by increasing a share buyback to $12.5 billion, from the $5 billion previously announced. Yesterday, Time Warner's stock rose 1.9 percent, closing at $17.90.
 ''There is a buyers' strike,'' said Dennis Leibowitz, general partner at Act II Partners, a media hedge fund. ''People are afraid to touch the old media. No matter how cheap they have gotten, people are fleeing. The environment is scaring them, and they can't figure it out.''
 The frustration is palpable. On Tuesday, the largest shareholder in Knight Ridder, the nation's second-largest newspaper chain, demanded that the company put itself up for sale after a string of strategic and financial moves by its management failed to stem a slide in its stock over the last four months.
 At the News Corporation annual meeting two weeks ago, Mr. Murdoch acknowledged repeatedly that the company's stock had taken a beating. ''It pains us as it pains you,'' he said. ''We are living in -- certainly as far as media goes -- a bear market. You can't ignore that.''
 In the meantime, shares of Google and Apple have soared as investors championed them as businesses positioned for digital riches. So why are investors ambivalent about big media's forays online? 
 In part, the legacy of overpriced deals -- many driven by an earlier rush into digital media -- has saddled companies with billions of dollars of debt. After an acquisition binge that depleted earnings in the 1990's and into 2000, media companies like Time Warner have finally cut their debt levels. 
 Richard Bilotti, a media analyst at Morgan Stanley, said that investors worry that companies could again be wasting their money on ill-advised acquisitions. 
 ''Many of the deals of the last 10 years,'' he said, ''were made with two principal assumptions: advertising growth would remain reasonably far ahead of nominal gross domestic product, and that size could be used to extract cost advantages. Those didn't particularly prove right.''
 Some executives complain that the current wave of buying is likely to lead to some of the same mistakes made during the initial Internet frenzy of the 1990's. 
 Last week at an advertising industry conference, Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive of WPP, the giant advertising group, accused Mr. Murdoch of ''willy-nilly'' buying of Internet companies and said that most of the companies were being run by 50- to 60-year-old executives who have trouble ''getting it.''
 What is odd about the investor reluctance is that earnings at the major media companies are relatively strong and executives, including Mr. Murdoch, have track records of breaking into new markets. 
 The News Corporation reported record operating income in the fiscal year ended June 30 -- its third consecutive year of double-digit growth in revenue and operating income. 
 Time Warner has said it expects record revenue and free cash flow in 2005, and yesterday reported an 80 percent increase in third-quarter earnings. Until media stocks regain favor, Mr. Parsons said, all he can do is manage his company's businesses and capital for growth.
 Aryeh Bourkoff, who follows media companies at UBS Securities, said that media stocks were generally trading around 15 times next year's free cash flow. (Free cash flow is the money left over after companies pay all their cash expenses, including taxes. Investors often use this as a performance gauge because free cash flow is effectively what is left to pay investors.) 
 By that measure, the stocks are not expensive, offering media investors an effective return of about 6 percent. 
 But that has not alleviated worries about the future, particularly because companies are still struggling to figure out, among other things, a model for selling content over the Internet or on cellphones. And investors recall the many wayward Internet investments that big media companies made late in the dot-com boom, most notably the financially disastrous combination of America Online and Time Warner. 
 ''It is not clear that anyone understands the Internet,'' said Bruce Greenwald, a professor of finance who teaches a course on the media at Columbia Business School, ''so why should media companies expand in yet another direction?'' 
 Traditional media companies are also in danger of losing advertiser loyalty. This month, at an advertising conference, Wachovia's chief marketing officer, James J. Garrity, told an audience that an analysis of the effectiveness of its ads would make Yahoo and Google executives ''very happy'' and broadcast television sales executives unhappy.
 At the same conference, Jerri DeVard, a marketing vice president at Verizon, said her company had increased Internet advertising to 11 percent of spending from 3 percent since 2001 and reduced spending on broadcast television. 
 Distribution companies, too, are facing increased competition from telephone and direct satellite as well as eBay's $2.6 billion purchase of Skype, the free Internet voice service. EBay's chief executive, Meg Whitman, has said she believes that online phone service will essentially be freeas an inducement for other services. That calls into question what cable investors have long viewed as a source of new revenue for cable pipelines. 
 Those factors have helped cast a pall over investor enthusiasm for Comcast, the nation's largest cable company, and probably limited the stock price of Time Warner, the second-largest cable operator. Even Cablevision sank last week after its controlling shareholders, the Dolan family, cited decreased cable valuations and pulled back its offer to take the company private. 
 Mario J. Gabelli, chief executive of Gamco Investors, whose mutual funds own shares in numerous media companies, is betting that prices will rise when leveraged buyout firms begin making more acquisitions in this area. 
 ''What we need is a transaction of an L.B.O. group coming in and reconfirming some multiples here,'' Mr. Gabelli said. 
 But the situation may get worse before it gets better. Eventually, though, new opportunities are bound to emerge.
 ''The market is just dumping these stocks en masse,'' Mr. Gabelli said. ''They're all coming together at a classic bottom.''


GRAPHIC: Graph shows that media company stocks have fallen since Aug. 1, as the share prices of some Internet and technology companies have risen.Graphs show stock trends for:Time WarnerNews Corp.Walt DisneyViacomComcastAppleYahooGooglesince August, 2005.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (78%); BROADBAND (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (75%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (68%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (68%); CD & DVD DRIVES (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); MYSPACE INC (93%); TIME WARNER INC (92%); GOOGLE INC (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (58%); VIACOM INC (57%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); TWX (NYSE) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (58%); VIA (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (93%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (79%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (73%); RICHARD D PARSONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005



52 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Our Allies In Iran 

BYLINE: By Afshin Molavi. 
Afshin Molavi, a fellow at the New America Foundation, is the author of ''The Soul of Iran: A Nation's Journey to Freedom.''

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
WHEN Iran's new president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, called last week for Israel to be ''wiped off the map,'' he raised fears not only abroad but also at home, particularly among Iran's sizeable, democratically minded middle class. The new president's confrontational tone threatens to deepen the isolation of Iran's democrats, pushing them further behind his long shadow. Western powers have a dual challenge: to find a way to engage this population even as they struggle to address the new president's inflammatory rhetoric. 
 By the time Mr. Ahmadinejad was elected in June, a sustained assault by hard-liners had left Iranian democrats disoriented and leaderless, their dissidents jailed, newspapers closed and reformist political figures popularly discredited. 
 But democratic aspirations should not be written off as a passing fad that died with the failure of the reform movement and the replacement of a reformist president, Mohammad Khatami, with a hard-liner, Mr. Ahmadinejad. The historic roots of reform run deep in Iran, and support for democratic change remains widespread. 
 Iran's modern middle class, which is increasingly urbanized, wired and globally connected, provides particularly fertile soil for these aspirations. The Stanford University scholar Abbas Milani has described Iran's middle class as a ''Trojan horse within the Islamic republic, supporting liberal values, democratic tolerance and civic responsibility.'' And so long as that class grows, so too will the pressure for democratic change.
 If Mr. Ahmadinejad's foreign policy results in further global economic isolation or military intervention, however, the situation for Iran's democracy-minded middle class could deteriorate. Foreign hostility will furnish additional pretexts for the regime to frighten its people and crack down on dissent. Particularly if the European Union decides to participate in a tougher sanctions regime, liberal-minded Iranians will lose contact with the foreign investors, educators, tourists and businessmen who link them to the outside world. 
 Now more than ever, middle-class and other democracy-minded Iranians need to preserve and expand their network of institutions independent from the government -- institutions in which they can take refuge from the rapacious hardliners who seek to control all aspects of Iranian life. That network should include a strong private sector; a rich array of nongovernmental organizations dealing with issues like poverty, women's rights and youth unemployment; and social, intellectual and cultural associations that communicate with counterparts abroad.
 Unfortunately, United States sanctions now prevent any American person or group from financially supporting, say, a microfinance bank, a program to train future political leaders or even an education initiative for rural women in Iran. That is a mis-take. Elsewhere in the Middle East, the United States has programs that provide exactly these kinds of grants, in the name of democratization.
 The United States should ease such sanctions in order to match its rhetorical commitment to Iranian democracy with meaningful action. The European Union should also step up its support for democratic activists and its commitment to the protection of human rights in Iran. Meanwhile, development institutions like the World Bank should invest in Iran's emerging private sector, which is not affiliated with the country's business mafias or the government-linked foundations that control about a quarter of the country's wealth. 
 Critics may protest that bolstering Iran's economy through such middle-class development will prolong the Islamic regime. But that's unlikely, if history is any guide. Certainly two decades of economic growth, during which the middle class swelled and political and economic ties to the United States were tight, failed to preserve the regime of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. 
 But the authoritarian theocracy that followed was not the aspiration of middle-class Iranian revolutionaries, who lost the post-revolution power struggle to supporters of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Ayatollah Khomeini, like Mr. Ahmadinejad, was a master at combining economic populism with religious fervor in appealing to the poor and dispossessed.
 Today poverty, not prosperity, again propels Iran toward extremist politics. Mr. Ahmadinejad's election -- however flawed -- did not reflect a popular desire for a harder-line foreign policy or for a rush to obtain nuclear weapons. Rather, it emerged from a persistent sense of low-grade economic pain, resentment of the ruling elites' corruption and frustration with widening income gaps. Most Iranians concern themselves far more with the price of meat and onions than with the Arab-Israeli peace process or uranium enrichment.
 In portraying himself as an outsider, a ''man of the people'' and an anti-corruption crusader with a bag full of economic promises, Mr. Ahmadinejad tapped into these sentiments. His second-round opponent, Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, proved to be the perfect foil: a multimillionaire mullah widely derided for his personal corruption and family business ties. 
 Tellingly, the leading reformist candidate, Mustafa Moin, placed fifth after campaigning almost exclusively on human rights and democratic freedoms. Today many reformists recognize that their movement had lost touch with the economic preoccupations of ordinary people. Stagnant wages, double digit inflation and high unemployment proved more than passingly distracting to Iranians who might otherwise have continued agitating for change.
 Before the revolution, American officials often urged the dictatorial shah to share power with the emerging middle class. The shah chose to ignore that advice, and Americans eventually stopped offering it. Now is the time to dust off such thinking and pursue a policy that targets economic support to our natural allies in Iran's economic center. Only a strong and stable middle class can ensure that Iran's inevitable winds of change do more than knock down a few trees -- or produce another populist demagogue.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Igor Kopelnitsky)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); WOMEN (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (63%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); MICROFINANCE (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005



53 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: IRAQ ASKS RETURN OF SOME OFFICERS OF HUSSEIN ARMY

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Reporting for this article was contributed by Dexter Filkins, Qais Mizher and Ali Adeeb in Baghdad, and Eric Schmitt and Steven R. Weisman in Washington.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Nov. 2 

 BODY:
The Iraqi government called Wednesday for the return of junior officers from the disbanded army of Saddam Hussein, openly reversing an American directive issued in 2003. 
 The move is aimed at draining the insurgency of recruits and bolstering the Iraqi security forces, Iraqi officials said.
The Defense Ministry, with the support of the American military, has quietly recruited a few thousand former officers over the last 18 months. But this is the first time it has offered an open invitation to broad classes of former officers to rejoin the armed forces.
 The move could represent a political overture by the Shiite-led government to disaffected Sunni Arabs, possibly to drum up support before the December legislative elections. 
 With the announcement on Wednesday, any former officers up to the rank of major are eligible for reinstatement by applying in November at recruitment centers in six cities across Iraq. 
 The move by the Defense Ministry represents the most public departure yet from an American policy instituted by L. Paul Bremer III, the former head of the American occupation, of cleansing the Iraqi government and security forces of former members of Mr. Hussein's Baath Party and disbanding the Iraqi Army. 
 Many American commanders and military analysts have said the dissolution of the 400,000-member Iraqi Army in May 2003 drove many thousands of Sunni Arab soldiers and officers into the insurgency while depriving the country of a force that could help restore order. American and Iraqi officials now say a core part of the Sunni-led insurgency is made up of former members of Mr. Hussein's military.
 Iraqi officials said any recruits signing up in November would go through a rigorous screening process intended to weed out possible insurgents. 
 Both the Americans and the Iraqis have been retreating in stages from Mr. Bremer's original ''de-Baathification'' order since early 2004. But American and Iraqi officials said Wednesday's announcement was significant for several reasons.
 It not only explicitly extends an invitation to thousands more officers, but in symbolic terms, it also represents an official recognition of a practice under way for some time. 
 Some senior American military officials said Wednesday that the announcement seemed aimed at Sunni Arab officers, relatively few of whom have rejoined the military. They added that the Iraqi Army was desperately short of midlevel officers.
 In Washington, a State Department official said that in negotiations on the constitution earlier this year, overseen by the United States ambassador, Zalmay Khalilzad, the Shiite majority agreed to lift some restrictions on Baath Party participation in the government. 
 ''It was loosened a bit, but it was not a dramatic loosening that might have led more Sunnis to support the constitution in the referendum,'' said the official, who requested anonymity so he would not be seen as interfering in Iraqi affairs. 
 A spokesman for the Defense Ministry, Saleh Sarhan, said in an interview that Iraq needed the expertise of the former officers. The new army is trying to rebuild armor and artillery units and wants the return of tank drivers, mechanics and others, he added. 
 ''We're trying to carry out big operations against the terrorists, such as sealing the borders of Iraq,'' Mr. Sarhan said.
 In recent months, many American officers have acknowledged that it will be years before the Iraqi Army is capable of fighting the insurgency on its own. Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the top American commander in Iraq, told the Senate Armed Services Committee in September that only one Iraqi battalion was then able to operate without the aid of the American-led forces.
 The Iraqi government's announcement came during a surge of violence at the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. Officials said at least 30 Iraqis died in attacks across the country on Wednesday, the deadliest taking place in the town of Musayyib, where a suicide bomber in a minivan packed with explosives killed at least 19 people and wounded 61 others near a Shiite mosque. 
 The American military announced the deaths of six troops, two from a Marine helicopter crash in western Iraq that may have resulted from insurgent fire.
 The helicopter, an AH-1W ''Super Cobra,'' went down at about 8:15 a.m. near the insurgent stronghold of Ramadi, the capital of rebellious Anbar Province, the Marines said in a statement. Col. Dave Lapan, a Marine spokesman, said the cause of the crash remained unclear. 
 But there were strong indications that the helicopter had been brought down by insurgents. At 2 p.m., a Marine Corps F-18D fighter jet dropped two 500-pound bombs on ''a reported insurgent command center'' just 500 yards from the helicopter crash site, said Capt. Jeffrey S. Pool, another Marine spokesman. He added that there was no immediate report on the number of casualties from the air strike.
 Anbar lies at the heart of the Sunni Arab insurgency, and several American helicopters have been shot down over its harsh desert terrain. Two of the other American deaths announced Wednesday, those of a marine and a sailor, occurred Tuesday in Ramadi, when insurgents attacked an American vehicle with a roadside bomb, the military said.
 A soldier was killed south of Baghdad Tuesday in a roadside bomb explosion, and another died Wednesday of wounds sustained in an attack near Balad the previous day.
 The car bombing in Musayyib, south of Baghdad, took place at around 5 p.m. outside a restaurant and just hundreds of feet from a Shiite mosque that was attacked by a suicide bomber in July. The explosion occurred as Iraqis were going home to celebrate the start of Id al-Fitr, the three-day celebration that marks the end of Ramadan.
 In Baghdad, American military and Iraqi police officials reported two roadside bomb explosions that killed five civilians each. One took place in the south of the city, the other in the east. In the evening, two insurgents were killed in the explosion of a car bomb they were building in a house in western Baghdad, an Interior Ministry official said.
 Political jockeying accelerated ahead of the Dec. 15 elections for a full-term National Assembly. Ahmad Chalabi, the former exile and onetime Pentagon favorite, kicked off his campaign by holding a news conference with fellow candidates from his slate. 
 Mr. Chalabi is the most prominent politician to break away from the religious Shiite parties that ran together as a coalition in last January's elections. He seems to be making a bid for a major position in the new government. He also appears to be repairing ties with the Bush administration, which accused him in the spring of 2004 of leaking American code-breaking secrets to the Iranians. His spokesman, Haider Mousawi, said Wednesday that Mr. Chalabi planned to meet in Washington on Nov. 9 with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and on Nov. 15 with Treasury Secretary John Snow. 
 In its Wednesday announcement, the Defense Ministry laid out a schedule for the recruitment of former officers. From Nov. 6 to 10, officers who held the rank of major can walk into designated recruitment centers and go through an interview and medical checkup. Those with ranks of captain, first lieutenant and lieutenant will then go in successive waves, until Dec. 1.
 ''The government made this announcement to put the right people back in the right jobs,'' Maj. Manaf Abdul-Hussein, formerly of the Iraqi Air Force, said in a telephone interview. ''We've worked in the military for a long time, and we're specialists in the field.''
 The major said he knew of many colleagues clamoring for their jobs back because of the high unemployment rate.
 Another former air force officer, Maj. Maithem al-Qaraghuli, said he had been pleasantly surprised by the ministry's announcement.
 ''I heard about the call today, and I'm thinking seriously of responding to it, because the pension I'm getting right now is not enough,'' he said. ''It's just $80 a month. If you're supporting a family, that's just not enough.''
 The disbanding of the Iraqi Army and the purging of former senior Baath Party members from government, both announced in May 2003 by Mr. Bremer, have been widely criticized as two of the worst policy blunders of the American occupation. Some Shiite leaders, especially Mr. Chalabi, strongly supported the moves and continue to advocate such purges. 
 But Iraqi and American officials began in 2004 to roll back the changes. Mr. Bremer himself announced in April 2004 that the American administration wanted to encourage the return of teachers, engineers and others who had joined the Baath Party simply for professional advancement.
 Well before the Wednesday announcement, the Defense Ministry had been recruiting former officers to work in commando units and other forces. There have been examples, though, of insurgents infiltrating the new Iraqi units.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The wreckage of a vehicle after a car bombing yesterday in Kirkuk that killed one civilian and hurt eight. (Photo by Slahaldeen Rasheed/Reuters)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MILITARY RECRUITING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); REFERENDUMS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005



54 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ARDITTI, FRED

 BODY:
 ARDITTI--Fred. Noted economist and chief economist of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) from 1980 to 1982, died October 30 of pancreatic cancer. Dr. Arditti pioneered futures contracts that transformed how businesses and individuals manage risk, most notably the CME's Eurodollar futures, the world's most actively traded futures contact. 
The Eurodollar contract was the first futures instrument based on ''cash settlement,'' a seminal feature of its incredible success. Dr. Arditti returned to the CME in 1997 to assume a leadership role in the development of the exchange's weather derivatives market, its Research, Marketing and Clearing functions, as well as its electronic trading business, which now account for approximately 75% of all its trade. Fred Arditti's 40-year career exemplifies his commitment to financial market innovation as recognized by the CME's award named in his honor. His achievements embody the kind of innovative thinking and practical benefit to commerce and markets that this award strives to honor. William F. Sharpe, the 1990 Nobel Laureate in economics, became the first recipient of the Fred Arditti Innovation Award in 2004. In his many activities outside of CME, Dr. Arditti taught courses in futures and options at a number of prestigious universities, both in the U.S. and abroad and has been published in various academic journals. His book ''Derivatives: A Comprehensive Resource for Futures, Interest Rate Swaps and Mortgage Securities,'' are among the most assigned books on the subject in many universities. A native New Yorker, Dr. Arditti was born and raised in the Bronx. He received his Undergraduate degree in Electrical Engineering, and his PhD. in Economics from M.I.T. in 1966. At the time of his death at age 66, Dr. Arditti was a tenured professor of Finance at DePaul University, having retired from the position of Senior Executive Vice President of the CME in March 2000. A life-long Yankee fan, Dr. Arditti lived in Chicago, and is survived by his mother, Marie Arditti, his children Elizabeth (Johnson) and her husband Bart, Annie Arditti and David Arditti. Additionally, he leaves behind his sisters Lee Lereah and Terry Suskauer. In lieu of flowers, donations can be made to the Vickie Maurer Nursing Excellence Award at Northwestern Memorial Hospital Department of Oncology, 675 N. St. Claire Street, Chicago, IL 60611. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (95%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); CANCER (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); ENGINEERING (70%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (69%); ACADEMIC TENURE (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (50%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2005



55 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; 36 HOURS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: San Jose, Calif.

BYLINE: By STEVE KETTMANN

 BODY:

SAN Jose passed San Francisco in population over a decade ago, but even though it's the high-tech capital of Silicon Valley, it still has a hard time competing for attention with its brassy, glamorous neighbor to the north. In the Bay Area itself, however, what used to feel like a rivalry no longer does. San Francisco, Oakland and San Jose have all grown together into one extended city full of interconnections, sharing liberal politics, a flair for innovation, a rich culinary tradition and a laughing disdain for the notion that the East Coast is the center of the world. And like any other part of the Bay Area, San Jose has attracted more than its share of creative oddballs who made their marks in colorful ways. STEVE KETTMANN

Friday 


8 p.m.
1 -- O. J.'s in S.J.
With its great location at 301 South First Street (408-292-7030), right in the heart of the rebuilt downtown, Original Joe's is a San Jose institution. It has an old-school lounge-lizard bar, reminding you that the place opened in the 50's (you can almost hear Dino crooning), but the restaurant has a friendly, upbeat air, and families have been coming here for special dinners for generations. There is an O .J.'s in San Francisco, too, but any real San Josean will tell you the South First Street O .J.'s is the best. Try the Joe's Special ($12.95), a concoction of chopped-up hamburger and onions sauteed together with spinach and eggs (great with ketchup).

10 p.m.
2 -- Hole in the Wall Blues
To find JJ's Blues lounge, (3439 Stevens Creek Boulevard, 408-243-6441; $10 to $12 cover on weekends), you would probably have to be in the nondescript neighborhood for some other reason and then happen on it by accident. That, it turns out, is how the place got its start: musicians would stop by the guitar shop across the street and stumble into the divey little lounge. John Lee Hooker and Albert King have both played at JJ's. So do up-and-comers with zero stage presence, awkward-kid body language and plenty of talent.

Saturday

11 a.m.
3 -- Egypt on Naglee Avenue
The Rosicrucian movement ties itself to ancient Egypt, based on the pursuit of esoteric wisdom and psychic and spiritual enlightenment. H. Spencer Lewis revived the Rosicrucian Order in the United States after a trip to France in 1909 and eventually established its headquarters in San Jose. Lewis encouraged members to contribute artifacts from Egypt, and the Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum and Planetarium (1342 Naglee Avenue, 408-947-3636), in an Egyptian revival park, has a surprisingly large and complete collection: ancient sarcophagi, mummified animals (a cat, a gazelle and baby crocodiles), papyrus writings and even the ancient board game Senet.

1 p.m.
4 -- Gooey Pleasures
The Coyoacan Cafe (375 Saratoga Avenue, 408-249-6255) is a festive place with gooey pleasures like a quesadilla ($6.75) smothered with tomato and fresh guacamole. But the best here is the pollo en mole ($9.50), chicken in spicy sauce. Coyoacan has all the right spicing, with a generous blend of sesame seeds, chile pasilla and chile guajillo. A tad less chocolate might have been preferable, but for the first-timer, an excellent introduction to the joys of mole.

3 p.m.
5 -- Mystery House
Sarah L. Pardee, born in New Haven in 1840, married into the Winchester family, known for its famous repeating rifle, ''the gun that won the West.'' Distraught after losing her husband and her infant daughter to illness, she is said to have visited a spiritualist who told her she had been cursed by the rifle's victims and should move west and work nonstop on a house, below left, so the clatter would ward off the troubled souls. She did, and her team of carpenters worked round the clock, 365 days a year, on the sprawling Victorian, now known as the Winchester Mystery House (525 South Winchester Boulevard, 408-247-2101; open every day but Christmas, $19.95 for adults, $13.95 for children ages 6 to 12). It has staircases leading nowhere, windows built into the floor, about 950 doors and 47 fireplaces. It's a tourist trap, with requisite gift shop and perky tour guides, but go anyway: the house is a monument to the human capacity for odd conviction. Winchester believed that the Great 1906 Earthquake was her fault and was rich enough to act on all her whims.

7 p.m.
6 -- Saratoga Vintage
Instead of making the 90-minute drive up to Napa in search of wine adventures, head just outside San Jose to the sleepy town of Saratoga. Most people go to the Plumed Horse, above, (14555 Big Basin Way, 408-867-4711) for the food, which is excellent, but for a change of pace, duck into its Crazy Horse lounge and tap the selection of 750 wines. The sommelier, Paul Mekis, tolerates those unfamiliar with wine with an easy smile, gives knowledgeable but never snobby answers, and talks conspiratorially about how the Plumed Horse cellar emphasized pinot noir years before ''Sideways'' came along. He might recommend a Pride Mountain (Napa) Viognier (''peach, apricot, floral, sweet up front, but kind of dry at the finish with a hint of mineral'').

9 p.m.
7 -- Barrel of Fondue
Right across the road, you'll find La Fondue (14510 Big Basin Way, Saratoga; 408-867-3332; call for reservations), an over-the-top fondue place that makes you feel as if you've parachuted into a theme park for adults. Try the plush, evocative red room, where medieval meets Arabian, or the cavernous blue room, with dark blue walls and sheets of silk billowing from the high ceiling. You can grill steak, chicken and tuna on the table in any room and choose from a mix of six sauces (wasabi, mustard-horseradish, etc.). Start with the cheese fondue (starting at $35), finish with the chocolate fondue ($8 a person) and dunk everything from baby carrots and broccoli to bananas, strawberries and bits of cake.

Sunday

10 a.m.
8 -- Rose Is a Rose Is a . . .
 The Municipal Rose Garden (Naglee and Dana Avenues; 408-535-3570; www.sanjosecagov/prns/regionalparks/rg), above, has over 4,000 rose plants of nearly 200 varieties. A map will tell you where to find what, from Voo Doo to Ole. Almost every day, there is some species in full bloom.

Noon
9 -- A Bit of Havana
The new Los Cubanos restaurant downtown (22 North Almaden Avenue, 408-279-0134) looks forgettable from out front, but once inside, the walls tell all: a giant map of Cuba, full of reverent detail; a painting of Jose Marti on horseback, sword drawn; even a full collection of pre-Castro Cuban currency. Edenia and Alcides Calvo left Cuba in 1970, but the food is as good as you can find in Havana, and the style and attitude are enthusiastically Cuban. Oxtail in Spanish red wine ($16.50) is a house specialty, and lechon asado ($13.95), a traditional Cuban dish of pork slowly cooked in its juices, is also delicious. Finish with a cafe cubano ($2.45), espresso with sugar, all but mandatory.

2 p.m.
10 -- Sunday Matinee
The San Jose Repertory Theater downtown (101 Paseo de San Antonio, 408-367-7255; www.sjrep.com) brought in stars like Holly Hunter and Lynn Redgrave in recent years to increase attendance, and now a nice bounce in fund-raising has enabled it to commission risky new works, including ''The Haunting of Winchester,'' a musical about Sarah Winchester, which ended last month. ''The Tricky Part'' is being presented now through Nov. 13. ''Pride and Prejudice'' starts on Nov. 26.

IF YOU GO

Outside the Shadow Of Its Neighbors
 The city council recently scaled back plans for a major renovation of Mineta San Jose International Airport, but at least it is only three miles from downtown. 
 It is served by most major airlines, and San Francisco International and Oakland International Airports, each less than an hour away, provide further options. 
 Renting a car is the best choice within San Jose, but there is a good public transportation system (www.vta.org), which includes bus and light rail service.
 The Fairmont San Jose (170 South Market Street, 408-998-1900) was a centerpiece of the 1980's downtown redevelopment when it opened in 1987 and just keeps growing, expanding in 2002 to 805 rooms and suites, which start at $149 a night on weekends. It is centrally located, next to a light-rail stop.
 Also downtown is the Art Deco Hotel De Anza (233 West Santa Clara Street, 408-286-1000), which opened to great fanfare in 1931 and was host to many famous guests. Among the celbrity guests were Eleanor Roosevelt and Jack Dempsey. 
 By the 1970's, the hotel had become run down, and it was nearly demolished, but it reopened in 1990 and developed a hip reputation. 
 It has 100 rooms and suites from $119, and a highly regarded jazz lounge.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)Map of California hightlighting San Jose.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); MUSIC (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (98%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (97%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); EGYPT (92%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



56 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: A Mercurial Conceptualist Who Remains an Enigma

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
The sculptor, photographer, filmmaker, Duchampian trickster, wacky inventor, eccentric scholar, rock singer and songwriter Rodney Graham is a nutty professor of contemporary art. Though far from unknown, the Vancouver-based conceptualist has produced so many kinds of art during the last three decades that he remains something of an enigma. 
 So an excellent retrospective at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia, ''Rodney Graham: A Little Thought,'' affords a welcome opportunity to know the mercurial and often highly entertaining Mr. Graham better.
The heart of the show consists of a small number of short, beautifully produced and dryly funny films that Mr. Graham started making in the late 1990's, beginning with the 1997 ''Vexation Island,'' a movie about a shipwrecked pirate that was shown at the 1997 Venice Biennale. 
 Before that, Mr. Graham, 56, dabbled in genres and multiple media in ways that seem intellectually and technologically impressive -- geeky, you could say -- but vaguely pointless. Preoccupied by the camera obscura in the 70's and 80's, he erected a room-size version aimed at a tree in a rural field. Then he conceived an urban project that had a camera obscura elevated on a high platform and directed to where a newly planted tree would eventually grow and come into focus. (These are displayed in the exhibition in model form.)
 For another project he employed a photographer to take pictures of majestic, isolated trees with a large-format camera. He then hung the elephantine black-and-white pictures upside down, like camera obscura images. Seven are presented in the exhibition, which has been organized by Grant Arnold of the Vancouver Art Gallery, Jessica Bradley of the Art Gallery of Ontario and Cornelia Butler of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles.
 Less visually compelling but more consequential for Mr. Graham's later career are works on paper involving the manipulation of literary texts and sheet music. For example, he had the beginning of a 19th-century romantic novel by Georg Buchner called ''Lenz'' typeset on five pages. The pages are built into a free-standing, revolving brass framework that enables you to keep reading because the last sentence on the fifth page reads into an earlier page; hence the title, ''Reading Machine for Lenz.'' 
 These early efforts are intriguing but tedious; they require a good deal of sympathetic concentration. 
 Then Mr. Graham began making more readily accessible works that focused on himself -- as a performer and, obliquely, as a person. For a film from 1996 that was a kind of extended self-portrait, he took the sleeping pill Halcion and had his friends film him dozing in the back seat of a car in his striped pajamas while they drove him home. It is an amusing Warhol-esque stunt, but more significantly, it introduced an impulse on Mr. Graham's part to quiet the more rational part of his mind and allow for more dreamlike fantasy. 
 With ''Vexation Island'' and subsequent films, all of which are designed to endlessly loop, the preoccupation with time and repetition comes into focus not only formally but also psychologically. In ''Vexation Island,'' the shipwrecked pirate, played by Mr. Graham, wakes up on a tropical island only to be knocked unconscious by a falling coconut that he has succeeded in shaking out of a palm tree; after a while he reawakens, returns to the tree and the cycle repeats. It is as though he were caught in a Sisyphean spell or a Freudian repetition compulsion.
 In ''How I Became a Rambling Man,'' a guitar-playing cowboy (Mr. Graham) sitting on a log singing about his wandering life, then rides into the distance on his horse, only to come riding back the way he came and sing the song again. ''The Photokinetiscope'' documents Mr. Graham taking a tab of LSD and riding a bicycle through a park, always ending up at the same place by a pond, where he again ingests the drug and again rides off. 
 Besides the clever play with movie genres -- the western, the 60's-style trip movie -- these films share an anxiety about being trapped in cycles of repetition. The marooned pirate can't even get started on a Robinson Crusoe-like survival and escape program, and though the wandering cowpoke thinks he is free from the strictures of city life, he is just going in circles, as is the intoxicated bicyclist. 
 Partly this is about art: painters paint the same painting over and over; writers write the same novels repeatedly with more or less minor variations. Mr. Graham keeps making circular films about circular behaviors. It is not only the artist, however -- many people are trapped in fruitless cycles of repetition: they keep falling for the same unsatisfactory mates; they keep rebelling against the same father figure, and so on. 
 Two other films shed more light on Mr. Graham's predicament. Set on a small, old-fashioned theatrical stage, ''A Reverie Interrupted by the Police'' is like a Beckett-style vaudeville routine. A man in a striped prisoner's outfit and handcuffs -- Mr. Graham doing a marvelous Buster Keaton imitation -- is escorted by a policeman to a piano onstage, where he plays little bursts of music that sound like Erik Satie updated by John Cage. The pianist keeps looking furtively over his shoulder, as though afraid he'll be arrested again for doing something wrong, but the policeman remains impassive. 
 The artist is always having trouble with the law. He wants to be free, an outlaw, but he keeps running into the fact that art without rules is impossible. Without the handcuffs, the pianist's inventions probably would be less creatively unconventional. The policeman is also a part of the artist's own self -- the inner critic, cop and judge who will tolerate no funny business. 
 ''City Self/Country Self'' is about the eternal battle in the artist's soul between sophistication and innocence. It stars Mr. Graham in two roles: as a dandified, 19th-century urbanite and as a rustic in clodhoppers and baggy pants who has ventured into the city. The film follows them on their separate perambulations until their paths intersect, and in an act of gratuitous hostility the gentleman kicks the bumpkin in the seat of the pants, sending him sprawling in slow motion and his top hat flying. After which, the rube picks himself up, resets his hat and continues on his way. 
 ''City Self/Country Self'' illustrates a tension that runs throughout Mr. Graham's career. In the earlier work, conceptual sophistication has the upper hand, and it still does in some later works, like a large color photograph of Mr. Graham playing Cary Grant disguised as a lounging fisherman in Alfred Hitchcock's ''To Catch a Thief'' -- a staged picture that is more interesting for its multiple conceptual allusions (explained in a wall label) than for what it offers visually. In his later and best works, it seems that sophistication still always gets the better of his inner fool, yet it is the fool who engages our sympathies. The fool is an endearingly vulnerable underdog who can still hope for transcendence, whether through instinctive innocence, romantic nonconformity or artificially induced ecstasy. 
 A realistic and darker approach to these themes is ''Aberdeen,'' a slide-projection piece. Projected on an old home movie screen, the slides document Mr. Graham's visit to Aberdeen, Wash., a nondescript town where the grunge rock star Kurt Cobain grew up. As banal views of the town go by, cacophonous, synthesized samples of rock music play through headphones that you listen to while sitting at schoolroom desks. 
 Besides riffing on Robert Smithson's mock-archaeological slide lecture on the ruins of a modern hotel in Mexico, ''Aberdeen'' is about Mr. Graham's own divided self. He grew up dreaming of becoming a rock hero and in his 20's he organized a moderately successful art-rock band. Going to the home of a self-destructive rock genius is Mr. Graham's consciously misguided search for a part of himself that he outgrew. Like most people, Mr. Graham lacked the raw charisma, instinctive talent and reckless abandon to become a rock idol. He made up for that lack with wit and craftsmanship. 
 Still, what keeps his art from being suffocated by its heady overdetermination is its wilder and goofier side, the side of the artist that does not know it all. And that is what makes Mr. Graham one of our most valuable players in moving-picture art. 

''Rodney Graham: A Little Thought'' remains on view through Dec. 23 at the Institute of Contemporary Art, 118 South 36th Street, Philadelphia, (215) 898-7108.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, a scene from Rodney Graham's ''Vexation Island'' and, left, an image from his ''How I Became a Rambling Man,'' in a retrospective at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia. (Photo by Lisson Gallery, London/Morris and Helen Belkin Art Gallery, University of British Columbia)
 (Photo by Donald Young Gallery, Chicago/Collection of Musee d'Art Contemporain, Montreal)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); FILM (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); COMEDY FILMS (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (68%) CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



57 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Pricing Drugs As if They Were Cars

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
SOME countries set health care spending policies through national legislation. In California, they do it through television advertising.
 It is almost impossible this week to turn on a television set without seeing an advertisement paid for by the major drug companies that is pushing one plan to let uninsured people qualify for prescription drug discounts, while vigorously opposing a competing proposal backed by unions and consumer groups.
The drug companies say they have spent $80 million, a figure that happens to be almost four times what Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger spent when he won his office in a special election in 2003. 
 There are virtually no ads on the other side. The unions are putting their money into fighting other ballot propositions, leaving this one undefended on the airwaves.
 But even a one-sided campaign can be enlightening. This one illustrates the wide variation in charges for the same prescription drug in the United States. In the background is the fact that Americans subsidize such drugs for people in other countries, with prescription spending 67 percent higher than in Germany.
 Within the United States, it turns out that drug prices are set in the same way that used-car prices are set: the better you are at negotiating, the less you pay.
 The union proposal would require the state to negotiate with drug companies for the best prices, using as a base the price the states pay for drugs in the Medicaid insurance program for poor people. Uninsured and low-income consumers would be given cards to allow them to buy, based on those prices.
 Any drug company that refused to negotiate would risk having its drugs dropped from preferred status in the Medicaid program, adding to the paperwork burden for doctors prescribing the drugs.
 The ad onslaught from the pharmaceutical companies contends that poor people would risk having their prescriptions vetoed by bureaucrats -- an assertion based on the theory that some drug companies would choose to drop out of Medicaid rather than negotiate. No company has actually said it would do that, but the point of the ad is to raise fears.
 The drug companies also commissioned an economist, William Hamm of the LECG Corporation, who produced a report suggesting that companies with health plans would have to pay more to offset the discounts that drug companies give to poorer Californians.
 ''Congress 10 years ago required companies to grant rebates in Medicaid,'' Mr. Hamm said. ''They generally increased prices in other markets, to generate revenue equal to what they gave up to the states under the Medicaid program.''
 Perhaps there is a limit to how much the drug companies can shift the burden. The ad spending, said Larry Levitt, a vice president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health policy research group not involved in the election battle, ''shows they are scared enough of this that they want to nip it in the bud.''
 The drug companies are backing a voluntary discount plan that would be available to fewer people. If both plans pass, the one with the most votes would become law. It is possible that both will be defeated.
 In the long run, this is likely to be a sideshow. American employers are finding that it is harder to be competitive with foreign companies that do not directly pay health care costs, and are starting to complain. Eventually, Washington will have to make substantial changes to a health care system that is the most expensive in the world but that forces some of the most vulnerable consumers to pay the highest prices for prescriptions.


GRAPHIC: Graph shows: Prescription drug spending Per capita, 2003U.S.: $728FRANCE: 606ITALY: 498GERMANY: 436JAPAN*: 393DENMARK: 272*Data are for 2002(Source by OECD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG PRICES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LECG CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541690 OTHER SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); NAICS541620 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); NAICS541199 ALL OTHER LEGAL SERVICES (63%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (77%); GERMANY (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



58 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Ford to Subsidize Ethanol Pumps in Midwest

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Ford, in partnership with the ethanol producer VeraSun Energy, plans to announce today that it will subsidize the installation of ethanol fuel pumps at gas stations around the Midwest. Ford also said it would increase the number of vehicles it builds that can burn fuel with as much as 85 percent ethanol. 
 In addition, Ford said it would work with dealers to emphasize the availability of ethanol-burning cars in areas where the fuel is sold.
Ordinary cars can burn fuel that is up to 10 percent ethanol and 90 percent gasoline. About five million ''flexible fuel'' cars and trucks can run on ethanol in any mixture up to 85 percent. But the fuel, known as E-85, is available at only about 500 stations, of some 180,000 stations nationwide. Nearly all of them are in the Midwest, because ethanol is produced from crops grown there, and is difficult to ship. 
 Even in the Midwest, though, sales of E-85 are held down. Bill Honnef, vice president for sales and marketing at VeraSun, which is based in Brookings, S.D., said in a statement that ''nearly 70 percent of flexible-fuel vehicle owners are unaware they are driving one.'' 
 Ford said it had a million flexible-fuel vehicles on the road and would build as many as 250,000 next year. For the first time it will add the F-150, the Crown Victoria, the Mercury Grand Marquis and the Lincoln Town Car to the list of vehicles in which a flexible-fuel option is available.
 Ford will subsidize ''under 100'' new pumps at gas stations in the Midwest, a spokeswoman, Chris Morrisroe, said. She would not say how much the company was spending. 
 Ford and other companies built the flexible-fuel vehicles partly because the Environmental Protection Agency offered them credits in their Corporate Average Fuel Economy calculations for doing so. Since the most recent leap in gasoline prices after the hurricane season, Ford and others have been promoting ethanol as a tool for saving money and reducing dependence on imported oil.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (97%); ALCOHOLS (93%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (91%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); GASOLINE (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); VERASUN ENERGY CORP (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2865 CYCLIC ORGANIC CRUDES & INTERMEDIATES & ORGANIC DYES & PIGMENTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



59 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Growth Nearly Doubled in the Third Quarter

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Productivity growth nearly doubled in the third quarter as labor costs fell, the government reported yesterday. The data, which showed that the economy was growing at a strong clip without signs of widespread inflation, surprised many analysts. 
 Productivity, which is calculated by dividing output by hours worked, rose at an annual pace of 4.1 percent from July through September, up from 2.1 percent in the second quarter, according to the Labor Department. Output jumped 4.2 percent, and hours worked edged up 0.1 percent.
Two other reports released yesterday were also mostly positive: unemployment claims dropped last week, and an index that measures the service industries jumped. But factory orders fell more than expected in September.
 ''The economy is still in very good shape,'' said Brian Jones, an economist at Citigroup, who noted that growth may soften in the coming months as consumers start getting the first of what are expected to be high heating bills.
 Historically high productivity in the last five years has been a central driver of economic growth in the United States. From 2000 to 2004, productivity gains have averaged 3.28 percent annually, compared with an average of 2.08 percent from 1995 to 1999 and 2.28 percent from 1948 to 2004.
 Many analysts had expected productivity to slow as businesses increased hiring and faced higher wage and benefits costs, and many say they still believe that will happen. But at least in the third quarter, those cost pressures remained in check.
 Unit labor costs, or the cost of labor divided by a unit of output, fell 0.5 percent from the second quarter, after increasing 1.8 percent in the second quarter. Compared with the third quarter of 2004, unit labor costs rose 2.7 percent.
 Hourly compensation was up 3.6 percent, but adjusted for inflation it was down 1.4 percent from the second quarter. Compared with last year, hourly compensation rose 5.8 percent (1.9 percent in inflation-adjusted terms).
 Other economic reports released yesterday showed:
 Initial claims for unemployment insurance fell by 8,000 last week, to 323,000, according to the Labor Department. There were 335,000 claims in the same week a year earlier. 
 The Institute for Supply Management's nonmanufacturing index, which measures the health of the service sector, rose to 60, from 53.3 the month before. Economists were expecting a reading of 57, according to a survey by Bloomberg News.
 Factory orders fell by 1.7 percent in September, the Commerce Department said, suggesting that manufacturing was not faring as well as services. Orders had risen by 2.9 percent in August, led by decreases in demand for airplanes, computers and household appliances. Excluding transportation, September orders dipped by 1 percent.
 Today, the Labor Department will release its monthly employment report for October, which will provide a broader view of how the American economy is doing two months after Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News say they believe that the economy added 120,000 jobs in the month, after losing 35,000 jobs in September, and that the unemployment rate will be unchanged at 5.1 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



60 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; AUTO RACING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Quarterbacks' New Role Will Be Far From a Snap

BYLINE: By KEN DALEY

DATELINE: FORT WORTH, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
The two-time season champion Terry Labonte and the journeyman Tony Raines were introduced Thursday as the initial driving team for Hall of Fame Racing, the Nascar Nextel Cup entry owned by the former Dallas Cowboys quarterbacks Roger Staubach and Troy Aikman that plans to begin racing next year.
 For a new organization that has taken nearly three years to land its principal sponsor, crew chief and drivers, the hard part is just beginning. 
''We know this is more than just 'the Aikman-Staubach team,' '' Aikman said at a news conference at Texas Motor Speedway. ''But Roger and I also realize that if this doesn't work out, that's how it's going to be remembered.''
 Jumping into the deep end of Nascar's premier circuit won't be easy for the rookie owners, but then neither was lining up on Sundays against Mean Joe Greene or Lawrence Taylor.
 ''We go into this with eyes wide open,'' Aikman said. ''We recognize it's not going to be easy, but we anticipate having success. To be able to compete every week as an owner, in a sport on a meteoric rise, is very appealing. And we've been very diligent putting this thing together to give ourselves the best opportunity to win.''
 Nascar officials know that a successful debut by Aikman and Staubach can only add to the sport's booming popularity. 
 But they also understand that the odds, at least initially, are stacked against them.
 Nascar Vice President Jim Hunter said that many potential new owners approached the organization. ''We usually encourage people, instead of coming in at this level, to come in with either the Craftsman Truck or Busch series, because of the economics involved,'' he said. ''It's an expensive sport for an owner.''
 Hiring drivers was the flashiest of Aikman's and Staubach's final tasks, but by no means was it the hardest. By the time the team's No. 96 Chevrolet makes its debut at February's Daytona 500, 37 months will have elapsed since Aikman and Staubach became partners with the former Trans-Am driver Bill Saunders to form their team.
 Despite the immense name recognition and appeal that comes with their combined five Super Bowl rings, Aikman and Staubach struggled to find a primary sponsor willing to commit the estimated $10 million to $15 million it takes to finance a competitive Nextel Cup team.
 That effort got a boost in March 2004 when Hall of Fame Racing announced a partnership with Hendrick Motorsports, the home to the star drivers Jeff Gordon and Jimmie Johnson. Hendrick was to provide equipment, resources and technological assistance to the Staubach-Aikman startup. But that arrangement soon dissolved. It wasn't until three months ago that Hall of Fame Racing reached an agreement on a three-year deal to make the electronics manufacturer Texas Instruments their car's primary sponsor. 
 At the same time, Aikman and Staubach announced what most N.F.L. fans would consider an unholy alliance. They will be partners with Joe Gibbs, coach of the Washington Redskins, the Cowboys' archrivals, and owner of Joe Gibbs Racing, to ease their introduction to Nextel Cup.
 Gibbs, who coached the Redskins from 1981 to 1992 and returned to their sideline in 2004, continues to own three Cup teams, including that of the points leader Tony Stewart. Since launching his Nascar enterprise in 1992, Gibbs has won Cup series titles with the drivers Bobby Labonte (2000) and Stewart (2002). Gibbs's operation will provide Hall of Fame Racing's Chevrolet with engines, equipment and technology.
 ''The relationship with Gibbs is such a huge advantage,'' said Philippe Lopez, hired six weeks ago as Hall of Fame's crew chief. ''You can't put a price on what they will be bringing to the table.''
 Labonte, 48, is a two-time Cup Series champion (1984 and 1996) who brings with him an all-important provisional that guarantees the new team a spot in the Daytona 500. Labonte's past-champion provisional could place the Hall of Fame Chevrolet in the 43-car fields for the first five races of next season if it is not fast enough to qualify otherwise.
 Labonte plans to race seven events for the new team, then turn the wheel over to Raines, a Busch Series veteran who has one top-10 finish in 54 Cup races. Labonte will run 10 events of his choice next year for Hendrick Motorsports, including what he said will be his final race at Texas Motor Speedway in November.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The former Cowboys Roger Staubach, on a monitor, and Troy Aikman, second from left, plan to have a Nextel Cup team for 2006. (Photo by Tony Gutierrez/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS (91%)

PERSON: JEFF GORDON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



61 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: You Can Take The Team Out of NY 

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: Haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE football teams that insist on calling themselves the New York Giants and the New York Jets have agreed to continue playing in New Jersey for good, or at least for the next 99 years, which qualifies as for good unless you expect to be around in 2104.
 Now that they are committed to the West Bank (of the Hudson), may a New Yorker be permitted a tiny question, humbly asked: 
Can our city have its name back? Please? Hasn't it been abused long enough?
 ''Yeah, you can have it back,'' Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey of New Jersey said by phone from Trenton.
 He would love to have the teams fly under the banner of New Jersey, where the Giants and Jets have played for about 50 years combined. Their clinging to NY logos instead of giving NJ a try ''rankles a lot of us,'' the governor acknowledged.
 He has his priorities, though. For him, keeping the teams in his state is a much bigger deal than names. ''I know and understand that marketing people told them they're better off with the NY for marketing purposes,'' Mr. Codey said.
 ''But you know what?'' he added. ''I wouldn't put it past myself late at night to go onto the field and do away with the Y and paint a J. I'm capable of that.''
 Does anyone want to read the governor his Miranda rights?
 Not that redoing the field would help him any. The New York label is here to stay, the teams say. No one has thought about changing it, said the Jets' chief spokesman, Ron Colangelo. Pat Hanlon, his counterpart with the Giants, said in an e-mail message: ''We are the New York Giants. Always have been. Probably always will be.'' 
 ''We are not trying to make a political statement with our name,'' Mr. Hanlon wrote. ''It is who we are. We proudly represent the New York metropolitan region, which encompasses New Jersey, New York and Connecticut.''
 Hmm. Maybe two of New Jersey's leading newspapers, The Record and The Star-Ledger, could get into the act by rechristening themselves The New York Record and The New York Star-Ledger. Why not? There is certainly nothing to stand in their way (except local pride, of course).
 New York officials may trademark logos like NYPD and FDNY or slogans like ''I Love New York.'' But ''that doesn't give them rights to every incarnation of the words 'New York,' '' said Jane C. Ginsburg, a professor of literary and artistic property law at Columbia University.
 That is so, said Daniel L. Doctoroff, the city's deputy mayor for economic development and rebuilding. The name New York ''is in the public domain,'' beyond trademark protections pursued by a city agency under his supervision, the Marketing Development Corporation. 
 You will recall that Mr. Doctoroff was the mayor's point man in the failed attempt to build a West Side stadium for the Jets. Despite that setback, he is fine with the team's holding on to the New York name for dear life. ''I'd probably be a little more upset if I lived in New Jersey and they weren't called the New Jersey Jets,'' he said.
 BUT even without a legal issue, doesn't truth in packaging matter at all?
 This is a question raised in other cities as well. The baseball Angels, who play in Anaheim, Calif., have changed their name over the years almost as often as has Sean (Puffy, Puff Daddy, P. Diddy, Diddy) Combs. They now go by the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, even though they have about as much to do with Los Angeles as free-flowing traffic.
 At least Anaheim and Los Angeles are in the same state. That is more than you can say about New York City and East Rutherford, N.J.
 ''In my column, I refer to the Giants as Jersey/A and the Jets as Jersey/B,'' said Gregg Easterbrook, a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution, who writes for the National Football League's Web site, nfl.com.
 The issue is simple for Siva Vaidhyanathan, an assistant professor of culture and communication at New York University. ''I think we should demand honesty from our sports teams,'' he said.
 ''Now I say this with bias, because I'm a Buffalo Bills fan,'' said Professor Vaidhyanathan, a native of Buffalo. ''They're the only team in New York really.''
 They are indeed. Then again, as he himself noted, his Bills do not actually play in Buffalo. They're in a suburb, Orchard Park.
 Tricky stuff, this truth business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); POLICE FORCES (76%); GOVERNORS (71%); MIRANDA RULE (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



62 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Want That on Rye, Or in Writing?

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
When people walk into Katz's Delicatessen on the Lower East Side, they are usually eyeing a hand-cut pastrami sandwich and a half-sour pickle.
 But to Marvin Taylor, who runs the Fales Library at New York University, the real treasures are the deli's business files.
Who knows what stories a century of salami and schmaltz sales might tell? ''These kinds of records chart more than the food history of New York,'' he said.
 For nearly four years, Mr. Taylor and his colleagues in the food studies department at the university have been piecing together a comprehensive record of 20th-century American cooking built on cookbooks, chefs' letters and other artifacts of eating. At the heart of the collection are 10,000 cookbooks from Cecily Brownstone, who was the food editor of The Associated Press for 39 years before she retired in 1986. Ms. Brownstone died in August. 
 The library and an anonymous donor paid $115,000 for her collection, which she kept in her three-story house in Greenwich Village. The money paid for her care during the last years of her life, Mr. Taylor said. Among her collection is every edition of ''The Joy of Cooking'' from 1931 to 1975, including first editions inscribed to Ms. Brownstone by the author, Irma S. Rombauer. 
 But Mr. Taylor believes there is much more culinary history still buried in dusty restaurant cellars and the apartments of notable New York chefs.
 In the coming months, he and his staff will approach restaurant owners and chefs and ask them to donate their papers to the library's archives. People with special collections of cookbooks or other material also will be invited to submit material for consideration.
 ''It's very important to get out there before people start throwing all of this material away or it goes to auction and we never see it again,'' said Carol Mandel, dean of the university's libraries and archives.
 Danny Meyer, of Union Square Cafe and Gramercy Tavern, is on the list. So is Mario Batali, the celebrity chef who was part of a panel in October at the library that examined the future of luxury dining.
 ''I would give them anything they want,'' Mr. Batali said in an e-mail message. That includes menus and recipes as well as what he calls ''fun correspondence'' between chefs, friends and members of his family.
 ''It matters because some of the most intimate and essential details of a society are made up of its attitudes about subsistence, luxury, taboo and knowledge all relating to its food experience,'' he said.
 Ruth Reichl, the editor at Gourmet and former restaurant critic at The New York Times, has donated cassette tapes of interviews she has conducted. Betty Fussell, the food writer, has agreed to donate her papers. And Dalia Carmel, a collector who helped preserve recipes that had been written by women in a Nazi concentration camp, plans to donate many of her books. 
 The Fales Library already includes a stack of letters and photographs that James Beard's secretary would pull almost daily from his wastebasket. She gave them to Clark Wolf, a restaurant consultant and adviser to the food studies department, 18 years ago. The Ladies' Home Journal cookbook collection is there, as well a complete set of the New York Zagat guides.
 Ms. Brownstone, the food reporter, left a culinary treasure trove that included a snappy section of cookbooks from the swinging 70's, including books intended for the single man and a book titled ''Cooking for Orgies and Other Large Groups.''
 The curators are particularly excited about her stash of 5,000 pamphlets produced by food companies and government agencies. One provides tips for cooking with wartime rations, while another, produced decades ago by the state of Louisiana, told of the nutritional value of nutria, a water rat.
 ''In this one collection you can really chart the changes in how America thinks about food,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''She collected for 60 years. If we had 60 years and all the money in the world, we couldn't put this together.'' 
 The Fales Library, which is on the third floor of the Bobst Library, is available to the public, as long as visitors are there to do serious food research. ''If they're just looking up a recipe for linguini, no,'' Mr. Taylor said. ''They would have to go to the New York Public Library for that.'' 
 The team at N.Y.U. is not interested in building a connoisseur's collection of charming recipes, however. They're trying to create a research center to aid academics who increasingly use food to understand history, economics, immigration patterns and other social changes.
 ''The whole concept of food studies is emerging,'' Ms. Mandel said. ''There's almost no topic that can't be illuminated by studying food as a historical record.''
 As an example, Mr. Taylor points to a study by an N.Y.U. student of the last meal requests of death row inmates. The most popular request was for food from McDonald's, which he said pointed to the socio-economic class of people sentenced to death in the United States. 
 One student tracing when ice cream was introduced to Japan studied every Japanese-American cookbook in the collection. 
 Other universities and institutions have cookery collections that have their own appeal. The New York Public Library has the nation's largest collection of historical menus. Papers from Julia Child and M. F. K. Fisher, the food writer, are among the 15,000 cookbooks at the Schlesinger Library at the Radcliffe Institute of Advanced Study at Harvard. 
 Michigan State was the first university to make its historic cookbook collection available on the Web, including the nation's first cookbook, Amelia Simmons's ''American Cookery,'' published in 1796. The University of Michigan also has a large collection of cookbooks and other material from the 16th to 20th centuries.
 But the Fales collection focuses on 20th-century American cooking and specifically on New York. ''New York is the center of the shift in American thinking on food,'' Mr. Taylor said. 
 In the past few decades, America began to look inward rather than to Europe for culinary inspiration, largely through the efforts of New York cooks like James Beard and others who began using American regional food.
 For people considering whether their aunt's old cookbook collection is worth something, be prepared for a letdown. Not everything is special enough. And the library already has copies of popular books.
 More desirable are unusual materials, books from small printings or collections that are specialized or comprehensive. 
 Of course, anything the curators reject can still be donated. But those donating should know that some of those books could be included at the library's monthly book sales. 
 The next one is from noon to 2 p.m. on Nov. 10 at the Bobst Library. Cookbooks will be sold for 50 cents, but if you offer a quarter they might take it, Ms. Mandel said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cookbooks, even one for orgies, are part of the culinary collection at N.Y.U. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Marvin Taylor, who runs the Fales Library at New York University, which houses a collection of books and other items related to 20th-century American cooking. The library has every edition of ''The Joy of Cooking'' from 1931 to 1975. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (90%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (88%); LIBRARIES (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); CELEBRITIES (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); DRINKING PLACES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



63 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 888 words

PERSON: Anthony R. Coscia

HEADLINE: The Authority at the Authority, Embracing Dullness

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 

 BODY:
WHITE shirt, tame tie, nerdy specs, wallflower proclivities: Anthony R. Coscia, chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, wears his distance from the Robert Moses-type table-slammers who preceded him in the upper echelon of metropolitan policy makers and power brokers like a disclaimer. The spotlight makes him cringe. Flesh-pressing and glad-handing are akin to sipping hemlock. He is, by nature, an inept fund-raiser. Let the charismatic guys run for office; Mr. Coscia prefers to be part of the scaffolding, an articulate infrastructure player. 
 ''I'm exceedingly dull,'' he insists. ''I'm an accident of modern politics. People like me don't become chairman of the Port Authority. My political pedigree is clearly not sufficient to become chairman of the Port Authority.'' 
Whatever. He nailed the job anyway and, wouldn't you know, it didn't hurt his next-to-invisible ego that he was former Gov. James E. McGreevey's fallback choice after the nomination of Charles Kushner, a developer and well-connected Democratic fund-raiser, collapsed in 2003. As for Mr. Coscia's nomination? No conflict. 
 Mr. Coscia, at 46 more florid than fit -- not enough hours in the day for this workaholic to exercise -- says the unpaid chairmanship ''came out of left field,'' but that he accepted it in a heartbeat. Just call him a glutton for public-service punishment. Not only does the post have the somewhat complicated requirement of calling two separate states that are hardly mutually compatible ''boss,'' but it also means operating the region's pivotal bridges, tunnels and airports. Also, the authority owns the World Trade Center, the most fraught building plot on earth. 
 ''The Port Authority will do whatever it needs to do to get it developed again, but we need to do it right and we need to do it quickly,'' he says of the site, where his agency intends to build a half-million square feet of retail space and has broken ground on the Calatrava-designed transit hub that he calls ''a Grand Central for downtown.''
 ''We're building a symbol,'' he continues. ''But I would like to see more aggressive building, en masse, as opposed to one piece at a time. 
 ''I'm happy to work with Silverstein Properties,'' he says of the leaseholder, Larry Silverstein, ''and I'm happy to work without Silverstein Properties.'' Stay tuned.
 MAKE no mistake that he took it as a painful setback last week when a jury found the Authority 68 percent at fault, and thus 100 percent liable, for a potential $1.8 billion in claims by plaintiffs injured in the 1993 trade center bombing. He will appeal the unanimous verdict if necessary, albeit queasily. ''Two things about this that trouble me is, the verdict itself, and the other is, those who were put through that horrible ordeal deserve enormous sympathy, and it's difficult for me to find myself in opposition to them,'' he says, folding his arms across his chest as if to keep his emotions under wraps. ''But I have a responsibility to this agency.'' 
 It irks him to have the Port Authority characterized as negligent. ''I don't think there's an agency on the planet that has a greater sensitivity to the whole issue of security in the 21st century than the Port Authority. We were the direct target of both attacks.'' 
 Mr. Coscia, who was named chairman of New Jersey's Economic Development Agency at 32 and later turned down Mr. McGreevey's offer to be state treasurer, feels he has the proper skills for this role: a nonpartisan mind-set and a Midas touch for finessing -- as opposed to muscling -- public-sector projects to fruition. He helps make big, tangible things happen, like the Performing Arts Center in Newark and the $600 million rebirth of PATH train service to Lower Manhattan, a five-year project which, he says, was completed in 16 months.
 Yet Mr. Coscia is so discombobulated at the prospect of inspecting himself -- and any ulterior motives for winding up in his high-profile post despite his low profile -- that he initially shrinks behind his expansive desk at Windels Marx Lane & Mittendorf, a firm he joined 21 years ago after earning his law degree from nearby Rutgers University. Now he's a partner and runs the firm. He is, he says, a keeper type. One wife. One firm. One flaw: He works too hard. His antidote to that: Five children, the oldest 17.
 ''It's not fashionable these days,'' he says, ''but for me, having a large family is what adds sanity to what would otherwise be an insane life.'' 
 Because ''the political process requires you to pick a side,'' he is a registered Democrat, with this caveat: ''I have a great deal of interest in government and much less of an interest in politics.'' Also, he refuses to favor New Jersey over New York. ''Looking at an artificial line drawn down the middle of the Hudson River in a global economy is naive,'' he says.
 Mr. Coscia is the son of Italian immigrants. His father was a union construction worker, his mother a seamstress in a coat factory in Paterson. In his working-class neighborhood there, ''There were some people who spoke Italian and not English, but no one spoke English and not Italian.'' Though his parents pressed him to attend medical school -- his sister complied -- he chose law because he felt it would put him in touch with ''the rules of the world.'' He was right.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ANTHONY R. COSCIA (Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (85%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (66%); RETAIL PROPERTY (66%); VERDICTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%)

RICK PERRY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Law

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



64 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: THE WORKERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: In Louisiana, Worker Influx Causes Ill Will

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON

DATELINE: GOOD HOPE, La. 

 BODY:
Near this speck on the map southwest of New Orleans, where an oil refinery spouts flames into the sky and alligators are said to lurk in the green canals, sits something that is causing consternation across Louisiana: a camp for out-of-state workers cleaning up after the flood.
 The camp, operated by a New York company called LVI Services, is not much to look at: a row of tractor-trailers crammed with bunks, a long line of portable toilets, a couple of R.V.'s and three tents with striped roofs. Gun-packing guards wear black T-shirts reading, ''Police.''
 It is a temporary home for hundreds of LVI's workers, some of whom said they were in the United States illegally. They are commuting into New Orleans, swabbing the mold off walls, ripping the guts out of buildings, removing mountains of soggy debris. 
 And they are stirring up resentment. Louisianians, from high-level public officials to low-wage workers, have begun to complain about the influx of outsiders they perceive as having come to profit off their pain.
 ''People from other states, we appreciate their help,'' said Aubrey D. Cheatham, a union electrician from New Orleans who believes he lost a job to lower-paid workers from outside Louisiana. ''But everybody else is getting work, not us.''
 Workers from all over have been pouring into Louisiana, some bused in by contracting companies, others simply turning up on their own in search of jobs. While nobody seems to know how many are here, there is plenty of work; the federal government estimates it will spend more than $450 million just to clean up hurricane debris.
 And as that work continues, Louisianians are casting unhappy eyes on everyone from the giant construction companies that won federal contracts to the small-town builders driving big pickup trucks with out-of-state license plates.
 Much of the overt hostility is focused on the army of Latino workers who appear to be doing much of the dirtiest cleanup work, often in the employ of those big companies, and often for less money that local workers might insist on.
 State officials have expressed concerns, with Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, calling on Oct. 24 for an investigation of federal contractors, whom she said were hiring ''low-wage undocumented workers.'' And in Kenner, just west of New Orleans, the City Council has passed an emergency ordinance to try to regulate workers' trailers and tents that have mushroomed all over the city.
 ''We're trying to be as considerate and compassionate as we can be to our out-of-town guests, but we need to preserve the quality of life for our residents as well,'' said Philip J. Ramon, chief of staff for Kenner's mayor.
 Employers point out that they are not required to investigate the authenticity of employees' documents. And as for bringing in workers, some say they have no choice.
 ''People in the area of impact are disjointed, disoriented,'' said Burton T. Fried, president of LVI Services.
 But in places where LVI will be working for a while, it tries to make a transition to local workers, Mr. Fried said. ''The purpose is, forgetting morality, that we don't have to pay per diems, food service, transportation,'' he said.
 The focus on Hispanic immigrants worries people like Representative Nydia M. Velazquez of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House Small Business Committee.
 ''I am afraid the anger and frustration of hurricane victims is going to be turned against undocumented workers, who are being taken advantage of,'' Ms. Velazquez said.
 Louisiana has only a small Spanish-speaking population, which is concentrated in and around Kenner. New Orleans itself is 3.1 percent Hispanic, according to the latest census, and the state as a whole is just 2.4 percent, far less than the national average of 12.5 percent. Therefore many of the newcomers stand out. 
 The worker encampments are also not hard to spot: next to a cemetery on Airline Highway in Metairie, around the side of a Winn-Dixie supermarket on Williams Boulevard in Kenner, on the campus of Delgado Community College in New Orleans.
 There are less formal living arrangements, too. On the west side of City Park, in the north part of New Orleans, campers are parked next to forklifts, tents have sprouted next to dump trucks and hammocks are slung next to front-end loaders. Judging by the license plates on the trucks, many of the inhabitants appear to be from nearby states.
 But not all, at least not originally. Jose L. Garcia and five of his friends were camping recently under a live oak tree, sharing three tents, eating food from a church kitchen and bathing in a plastic garbage can. The men live in Charlotte, N.C., but said most of them knew one other from the Mexican state of Michoacan.
 Behind their pickup trucks were two large trailers, which the men use to transport debris to a dump. They get $10 for every reeking refrigerator they throw out, Mr. Garcia said, but they do not want to do that work anymore -- it makes them smell too bad.
 Hard and unpleasant as cleanup work is, there are Louisianians willing to do it, said Barry Kaufman, the business manager of Construction and General Laborers' Local 689 in New Orleans. Mr. Kaufman has said he has at least 2,000 people willing to take cleanup jobs, although many of them -- and the local's hiring hall -- are now displaced in Baton Rouge, more than an hour's drive from New Orleans.
 ''The local guys are trying, but there's nowhere for them to stay,'' Mr. Kaufman said, adding that one of the camps ''looks like Little Mexico.''
 The situation is new to Louisiana, which has little tradition of attracting large numbers of transient workers, unlike Florida and other booming areas, said Mark Zandi, chief economist for Economy.com. The stagnant economy here has not provided many job opportunities since 2001. 
 The complaints also reflect the widespread frustration over the continuing lack of housing in the area. Tens of thousands of houses were destroyed by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, leaving their former residents adrift. Businesses of all sorts are frantically advertising for workers, even as the jobless rate for Louisianians jumped to 11.5 percent in September, from 5.8 percent in August.
 It was the promise of housing, as much as anything, that prompted Mr. Cheatham, the union electrician, to take a job wiring a tent city for a subcontractor at the Naval Air Station at Belle Chasse, south of New Orleans, he said. He had lost his house near Lake Pontchartrain to flooding, along with his car; his family was scattered.
 Life on the base was tough, he said, but he was particularly troubled by the presence of a large number of people he believed to be illegal immigrants, some of whom were working at the base, others of whom arrived each night on buses for meals. (The Navy said it allowed its contractors to house workers on the base.) ''I called immigration several times to complain,'' Mr. Cheatham said.
 Then, abruptly in their view, the subcontractor, BE&K, fired Mr. Cheatham and his fellow union electricians. The electricians, who make about $22 an hour plus benefits, said they believed that their jobs were taken by lower-paid, illegal workers.
 Their boss, Albert Knight of Knight Enterprises in Lacombe, La., complained to Senate Democrats, who demanded an investigation. And, in fact, federal officials have since found more than two dozen illegal workers at the base, although only two worked for BE&K, which says it did not replace the electricians with lower-paid workers. 
 According to an August report by the Government Accountability Office, enforcement of workplace laws has become a low priority for federal immigration authorities, which fined only three companies for improper hiring in the 2004 fiscal year, down from 417 in the 1999 fiscal year. Arrests have also plummeted.
 For workers, company-provided housing can be as much a curse as a blessing, said Frank J. Curiel, an organizer for the Laborers International Union. Some workers have been cast into the street with nowhere to go, he said, while others cannot quit their jobs because they would become homeless.
 It is not hard to find such people, as Mr. Curiel demonstrated by striking up a conversation with three men outside an LVI building down the road from the housing camp. The men said they were making $10 an hour cleaning up debris and were bunking at the camp, which they said had an atmosphere like a jail.
 One man, a Honduran who said he was afraid to give his real name, said he wanted nothing more than to return to Houston, where he had lived for six months. But he did not have enough money after sending most of his last paycheck back to his family. 
 The man said he did not like working with strong chemicals and had been having health problems. When he did not want to work one day, he said, his supervisor told him that he was fired and that he had to leave the camp. He was not sure what he would do next.
 One of his friends, a teenager who gave his name as Valentine Morales (which was not the name on the plastic ID tag he was wearing), said he was from the Mexican state of Chiapas and had been living in Springfield, Mass. He had heard there was a lot of work after the hurricane, he said, so he took a bus to Mississippi and made his way to Louisiana.
 Soon, he will move on to Florida, the young man said. ''I used to be a farm worker,'' he explained, ''but now I do cleanup work.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose L. Garcia, right, and fellow workers originally from the Mexican state of Michoacan get $10 for every refrigerator they throw out.
 Mexican laborers from North Carolina camped out in City Park in New Orleans during a break from removing debris left by Hurricane Katrina. (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); HURRICANES (72%); FOREIGN LABOR (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); ORDINANCES (67%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (67%); CONTRACT AWARDS (64%); CITIES (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LVI SERVICES INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC1799 SPECIAL TRADE CONTRACTORS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: MARY LANDRIEU (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



65 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: From Gunpowder to the Next Big Bang

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
There is a techie adage that goes like this: In China or Japan the nail that stands up gets hammered, while in Silicon Valley the nail that stands up drives a Ferrari and has stock options. Underlying that adage is a certain American confidence that whatever we lack in preparing our kids with strong fundamentals in math and science, we make up for by encouraging our best students to be independent, creative thinkers. 
 There is a lot of truth to that. Even the Chinese will tell you that they've been good at making the next new thing, and copying the next new thing, but not imagining the next new thing. That may be about to change. Confident that its best K-12 students will usually outperform America's in math and science, China is focusing on how to transform its classrooms so students become more innovative. 
''Although we are enjoying a very fast growth of our economy, we own very little intellectual property,'' Wu Qidi, China's vice minister of education, told me. ''We are so proud of China's four great inventions [in the past]: the compass, paper-making, printing and gunpowder. But in the following centuries we did not keep up that pace of invention. Those inventions fully prove what the Chinese people are capable of doing -- so why not now? We need to get back to that nature.'' Nurturing more ''creative thinking and entrepreneurship are the exact issues we are putting attention to today.'' But this bumps head-on against Chinese culture and politics, which still emphasize conformity.
 But for how much longer? Check out Microsoft Research Asia, the research center Bill Gates set up in Beijing to draw on Chinese brainpower. In 1998, Microsoft gave IQ tests to some 2,000 top Chinese engineers and scientists and hired 20. Today it has 200 full-time Chinese researchers. Harry Shum, a Carnegie Mellon-trained computer engineer who runs the lab, has a very clear view of what Chinese innovators can do, given the right environment. The Siggraph convention is the premier global conference for computer graphics and interactive technologies. At Siggraph 2005, 98 papers were published from research institutes all over the world.
 Nine of them -- almost 10 percent -- came from Microsoft's Chinese research center, beating out M.I.T. and Stanford. Dr. Shum said: ''In 1999 we had one paper published. In 2000, we had one. In 2001, we had two. In 2002, we had four. In 2003 we had three. In 2004, we had five, and this year we are very lucky to have nine.'' Do you see a pattern?
 In addition, Microsoft Beijing has contributed more than 100 new technologies for current Microsoft products -- from the Xbox to Windows. That's a huge leap in seven years, although, outside the hothouses like Microsoft, China still has a way to go.
 Dr. Shum said: ''A Chinese journalist once asked me, 'Harry, tell me honestly, what is the difference between China and the U.S.? How far is China behind?' I joked, 'Well, you know, the difference between China high-tech and American high-tech is only three months -- if you don't count creativity.' When I was a student in China 20 years ago, we didn't even know what was happening in the U.S. Now, anytime an M.I.T. guy puts up something on the Internet, students in China can absorb it in three months. 
 ''But could someone here create it? That is a whole other issue. I learned mostly about how to do research right at Carnegie Mellon. Before you create anything new, you need to understand what is already there. Once you have this foundation, being creative can be trainable. China is building that foundation. So very soon, in 10 or 20 years, you will see a flood of top-quality research papers from China.''
 Once more original ideas emerge, though, China will need more venture capital and the rule of law to get them to market. ''Some aspects of Chinese culture did not encourage independent thinking,'' Dr. Shum said. ''But with venture capital coming into this country, it will definitely inspire a new generation of Chinese entrepreneurs. I will be teaching a class at Tsinghua University next year on how to do technology-based ventures. You have technology in Chinese universities, but people don't know what to do with it -- how to marketize it.''
 A few of his young Chinese inventors demonstrated their new products for me. I noticed that several of them had little granite trophies lined up on their shelves. I asked one of them, who had seven or eight blocks on her shelf, ''What are those?'' She said the researchers got them from Microsoft every time they invented something that got patented.
 How do you say ''Ferrari'' in Chinese? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (88%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (85%); ENGINEERING (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) CHINA (97%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



66 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: World Bank's Former Chief Will Be Hired By Citigroup

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
The world's biggest bank is hiring the former head of the World Bank. Citigroup said yesterday that James D. Wolfensohn, 71, who left as president of the World Bank last spring after 10 years at the helm, would serve as a global strategy adviser to senior management and clients. He will also become chairman of the Citigroup International Advisory Board in 2006. 
 His appointment comes just a day after Shengman Zhang, 48, a World Bank managing director from China, was named vice chairman of Citigroup's global banking division and head of its public sector group.
Citigroup already has a toehold in more than 100 countries outside the United States, and its overseas operations contributed about 40 percent of its operating income in the first three quarters this year. But the fast-growing economies in Latin America, Eastern Europe and Asia have become an increasingly important focus as places to expand its retail presence and take advantage of higher business investment returns. And both Mr. Wolfensohn and Mr. Zheng bring a Rolodex of worldwide political connections.
 ''More of our growth over the 5 to 10 years will come internationally than nationally,'' Charles O. Prince III, Citigroup's chief executive, said yesterday in an interview. ''Having their expertise as part of the team effort really gives us a leg up.''
 Mr. Wolfensohn has been serving as a special envoy to oversee the pullout of Jewish settlers from Gaza. He is expected to start his new job at Citigroup in two or three months. Mr. Zheng, who spent a decade at the World Bank directing operations in more than 140 developing countries, will join Citigroup in early 2006.
 The Citigroup executive suite has long been home to globally minded leaders. Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary during the Clinton administration, is the chairman of its executive committee, and Stanley Fischer, the former managing director of the International Monetary Fund, was a Citigroup vice chairman until he was named the governor of Israel's central bank earlier this year. Gerald R. Ford, the former president, is an honorary member of the board.
 For Mr. Wolfensohn, Citigroup is a homecoming of sorts. A naturalized United States citizen born in Australia, Mr. Wolfensohn was in the 1970's the executive deputy chairman at Schroders and an executive partner at Salomon Brothers, both investment banks that are now under the Citigroup umbrella. Moreover, he was recommended for his World Bank job by Mr. Rubin and counts Sir Win Bischoff, Citigroup's chairman for Europe, as a longtime friend. He was also a chairman of Carnegie Hall, preceding Sanford I. Weill. 
 Mr. Wolfensohn comes to Citigroup at a time when the Federal Reserve has barred it from making major acquisitions and there has been significant turnover in its executive ranks. Will Mr. Wolfensohn's diplomatic skills come in handy, too? ''Jim is really going to be helping us expand the footprint," Mr. Prince said with a laugh. ''We don't need a peacemaker internally.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: James Wolfensohn has been serving as a special envoy to oversee the pullout of Jewish settlers from Gaza. (Photo by Chris Kleponis/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (76%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



67 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: A Look Inside the Outsize Company That Is the Biggest Retailer on the Planet

BYLINE: By ANITA GATES

 BODY:
Robert Greenwald's ''Wal-Mart: The High Cost of Low Price'' is not ''Fahrenheit 9/11.'' There are no goofy takeoffs of old television series. You won't see H. Lee Scott Jr., the chief executive of Wal-Mart, the largest retailer on the planet, practicing his golf swing or making revealing comments on camera. 
 He doesn't have to. Mr. Greenwald's film features plenty of star witnesses, many of them former employees. Weldon Nicholson, a store-manager trainer for 17 years, says that when Wal-Mart came into a new town, management people would scan the stores along Main Street and make a game of predicting how long it would take each business to close. 
 Johnny Faenza, an employee of H & H Hardware, a family business in Middlefield, Ohio, that opened in 1962 but bit the dust after Wal-Mart came to town, is mystified by the corporation's unimpeded march toward monopoly. ''They busted up Standard Oil, and they busted up Ma Bell,'' Mr. Faenza says in the film, but in this case, ''nobody seems to be paying attention.''
 The saddest part of this documentary is a series of shots of abandoned Main Streets, empty store after empty store, with Bruce Springsteen's plaintive version of ''This Land Is Your Land'' as accompaniment. But vanquishing thousands of small businesses coast to coast is not Wal-Mart's only crime, its critics say.
 They also cite the company's treatment of its employees, whose average annual income is under $14,000. The company offers health insurance, but it is so expensive, employees say, that most people can't afford it. According to the documentary, company representatives openly recommend that workers sign up for government-aid programs instead. 
 Wal-Mart's record on sex and race discrimination is also addressed. One training coordinator recalls being made to clean the bathroom on a regular basis because she was the only woman in the department. A black man recalls racial epithets and lynching jokes. 
 In China, a young factory employee talks about working conditions. (''I'm sitting there, dripping with sweat all day long,'' she says.) Employees in China say they are housed in dismal dormitories; they may choose to live elsewhere, but still have to pay the dorm rent. In Bangladesh, the documentary says, working hours are 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., seven days a week, for 13 to 17 cents an hour. 
 Back home in the United States, employees say they are frequently forced to work off the books, meaning no pay for overtime. And of course there was the scandal about employees being locked inside stores overnight. 
 In all fairness, Wal-Mart is not the only company in the world accused of trying to work its employees to death or of economizing by using part-time and freelance people who don't receive expensive employee benefits. 
 In addition to these complaints, there also seems to be a problem with security in Wal-Mart parking lots. After interviews with victims and their families, a seemingly endless list of crimes committed in store lots rolls like film credits. Then a message appears onscreen: those were only the ones from the first seven months of 2005.
 ''The High Cost of Low Price'' makes its case with breathtaking force. Mr. Scott of Wal-Mart declined to speak on camera, Mr. Greenwald says. The company is worried enough about this film and growing opposition elsewhere that it has hired high-powered former presidential advisers and set up a public relations ''war room'' to deflect and respond to criticism. 
 But it's impossible not to remember what happened with Michael Moore's ''Fahrenheit 9/11'': it outraged many Americans, made White House decisions look ridiculously dishonest and/or inept, and President Bush was re-elected anyway.

Wal-Mart
The High Cost of Low Price
Opens today in New York and Los Angeles.

Directed by Robert Greenwald; director of photography, Kristy Tully; edited by Chris Gordon, Douglas Cheek, Robert Florio and Jonathan Brock; music by John Frizzell; produced by Mr. Greenwald, Jim Gilliam and Devin Smith; released by Brave New Films. In Manhattan at the Village East, Second Avenue at 12th Street, East Village. Running time: 97 minutes. This film is not rated.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene from ''Wal-Mart: The High Cost of Low Price.'' (Photo by Brave New Films)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); GOLF (71%); WITNESSES (70%); CITIES (69%); RACE & RACISM (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); DISCRIMINATION (61%); OVERTIME (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%)

PERSON: H LEE SCOTT JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); BANGLADESH (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



68 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Merck Ruling and 2 Reports Help Buoy the Markets

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, as Merck won a favorable verdict in a product liability trial and reports on labor productivity and the services sector increased optimism about the economy's outlook. 
 Technology shares rallied for a second day, pushing the Nasdaq Composite Index, where many technology shares are listed, to its highest close in six weeks and stirring hopes of a year-end rally.
 Shares of the drug maker Merck climbed 3.8 percent, to $29.48, on the New York Stock Exchange, after a jury in New Jersey ruled that Merck was not at fault in a product-liability suit charging that its Vioxx pain medicine caused a heart attack in a patient taking the drug. 
 ''Stocks started the day on a positive note and the verdict on Merck gave the bullish investors out there another incentive to buy,'' said Martin Yokosawa, senior portfolio manager at Oberweis Asset Management in Lisle, Ill. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average was up 49.86 points, or 0.48 percent, to end at 10,522.59. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 5.18 points, or 0.43 percent, to finish at 1,219.94. The Nasdaq composite index was up 15.91 points, or 0.74 percent, at 2,160.22. 
 A rebound in oil prices limited gains as crude oil futures for December delivery rose $2.03, to $61.78 a barrel.
 Interest rates crept higher, with the 10-year bond rising to 4.65 percent, from 4.60 percent late Wednesday, and the price, which moves inversely to the yield, falling 10/32, to 96 29/32. 
 In the tech sector, Qualcomm, the wireless technology company, rose a day after posting a higher fiscal fourth-quarter profit. Qualcomm's stock rose 9 percent, or $3.64, to $44.02 a share.
 ''Technology shares are among the most undervalued,'' said James Huguet, president of Great Companies L.L.C. in Florida, with $1 billion in assets under management. ''Investors who are betting on a year-end rally are probably going to favor the sector.'' 
 Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, told Congress that the nation's economy had weathered the blow from the recent hurricanes and still had good momentum. 
 ''More uncertainty, however, surrounds the outlook for inflation,'' Mr. Greenspan said. 
 Economic reports, including business productivity data for the third quarter, which showed that unit labor costs declined, eased worries about inflation and helped to lift stocks. 
 In another report, the Institute for Supply Management's services index rose to 60 in October, beating Wall Street's forecast for an increase to 57. 
 Chain stores such as Abercrombie & Fitch reported sales that beat Wall Street estimates. 
 Abercrombie's stock rose $2.42, or 4.5 percent, to $56.27. 
 J. C. Penney said yesterday that sales at department stores open at least a year rose 2.4 percent in October; it raised its quarterly profit forecast. Penney's stock rose $1.95, or 3.8 percent, to $53.40 a share. 
 Trading was heavy on the New York Stock Exchange, with about two billion shares changing hands. On the Big Board, gainers outnumbered decliners by a ratio of less than three to two.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Tax-Exempt Yields'' shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since July, 2005. (Source by The Bond Buyer)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since July, 2005. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); VERDICTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); FUTURES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (78%); BONDS (77%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (76%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); RETAILERS (60%); WEATHER (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (85%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (80%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); QUALCOMM INC (53%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%); ANF (NYSE) (80%); AFT (FRA) (80%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (80%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (80%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



69 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Wachovia Plans Return To Credit Card Market

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Wachovia has been the only big bank without its own big credit card business. Yesterday, it announced plans to re-enter the credit card market as a direct issuer, starting in January 2006.
 The decision effectively ends the joint-marketing agreement that for the last six years has allowed MBNA to solicit Wachovia customers for credit card business. MBNA agreed to be acquired for $35 billion by Bank of America in June, after Wachovia passed on a deal.
As interest rates tick upward, yesterday's announcement highlights the pressure for Wachovia to find new outlets to take advantage of the spread between the money it lends out and the money it takes in from deposits. Credit cards are an extremely profitable business, not to mention a wallet-size billboard for advertising and a platform to cross-sell. 
 ''The whole name of the game in banking right now is trying to generate high-interest-yielding assets,'' said David Hendler, a financial services industry analyst at Creditsights in New York. ''That's what the credit card business is. Everyone has these deposits right now. They have to put them to work.''
 Wachovia's announcement also fueled speculation that the bank might seek to acquire Capital One, which, along with American Express, is among the few sizable standalone card issuers that remain.
 Wachovia customers account for about $6.5 billion in receivables of MBNA's $88.5 billion United States credit card portfolio, according to The Nilson Report, which tracks industry statistics. That would make Wachovia the nation's 11th-largest credit card issuer as of today.
 Wachovia executives, however, said that they were focused on offering credit cards to their 13 million customers -- for now.
 ''We don't envision being a national distributor of credit cards, a huge issuer of credit cards,'' said Brad Jenkins, president of Wachovia's General Bank. ''We will do it through our own customers and focus on our customers.''
 Wachovia's foray into credit cards reverses a decision made to exit the business entirely in 2002 shortly before the bank, then known as First Union, snapped up Wachovia (and took its name) and SunTrust on its way to becoming the nation's fourth-biggest bank. 
 The move is also the latest clash in the continuing rivalry with Bank of America, the nation's second-largest bank. It and Wachovia are based in Charlotte, N.C. 
 Wachovia executives said they began exploring the credit card business shortly after Bank of America's acquisition of MBNA was announced. Indeed, analysts said at the time that it was unlikely that the bank would want to share its customer lists with its main rival. 
 Yesterday's announcement coincided with a deal to terminate the joint-marketing agreement with MBNA, once its sale is completed in January 2006. The terms will require MBNA to pay Wachovia a $100 million breakup fee that will be used to offset its costs of re-entering the credit card business.
 In the meantime, MBNA will retain and service the existing Wachovia-branded credit card loans and begin issuing replacement credit cards, MBNA said in a separate statement. Wachovia executives said that a decision whether to offer Visa, MasterCard or American Express branded cards had not yet been made.
 For Wachovia, credit cards were a prime source of profits before it handed over much of the business to MBNA in August 2000. 
 With the credit card industry growing increasingly competitive, the bank faced the possibility of falling behind unless it significantly bolstered marketing and increased the size of its portfolio. Instead, executives decided to allocate the capital elsewhere, including its acquisition spree, analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (95%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); WELLS FARGO & CO (92%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); WFC (NYSE) (92%); AXP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



70 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1710 words

HEADLINE: Voted In, Hamas Sets a West Bank City Astir 

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: QALQILYA, West Bank, Oct. 29 

 BODY:
The mayor won a landslide victory from the inside of an Israeli jail, and still sits there today. The city banned a cultural festival from its grounds, in no small part because singing, dancing and the mixing of men and women reflects ''a Western mentality.'' 
 And yet, the budget deficit has been tamed, city employees are getting raises and more roads are being paved courtesy of the new party in power -- Hamas.
A lot of eyes are fixed on Qalqilya, where the radical Islamic group Hamas won every seat on the city council five months ago. It was a major shock for Fatah, the dominant faction in the Palestinian Authority, and is emerging as a test case of Hamas's foray into electoral politics.
 Hamas, which advocates Israel's destruction and is regarded by Israel and the United States as a terrorist group, is fielding candidates in the Palestinian local and parliamentary elections. Here in Qalqilya, its rule has already set off a fair amount of grumbling that the group is trying to impose a strict Islamist morality. 
 ''They're isolating us!'' said Othman Zaid, a poultry merchant in the market, taking out his fury on the necks of chickens bound for the dinner pot. ''We used to have many diplomats visiting, and since Hamas took over, I haven't seen one. We've lost some aid and projects.''
 But in its short tenure, Hamas has also brought a new measure of modernity to this town of 45,000 people. It has tackled the budget and even predicts a surplus. It has introduced previously alien practices, like computerized bookkeeping and competitive bidding on city contracts, and has begun to investigate past corruption. 
 The struggle between Fatah and Hamas is a prime topic for conversation far beyond Qalqilya, a town divided only by a highway and Israel's separation barrier from the Israeli city of Kfar Sava, with which it shares a water and sewage plant.
 Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, has encouraged Hamas to run in the parliamentary elections scheduled for Jan. 25. He thinks he can co-opt Hamas members into politics and away from armed resistance, hoping to persuade them to put down their arms after the elections. The Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, thinks Mr. Abbas is making a fatal error and wants Hamas disarmed before it enters Parliament.
 The Bush administration, in its call for the democratization of the Middle East, has refused to support Israel's desire to exclude Hamas from January's elections. But while urging Mr. Abbas to ''confront the threat of armed gangs,'' criticizing Hamas and insisting that Palestinian violence cannot coexist with Palestinian politics, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has argued that the elections are ''a Palestinian process, and I think we have to give the Palestinians some room for the evolution of their political process.''
 So how is Hamas doing here? It has made significant strides in reforming city management and budgeting. But it has also created waves of dissent, fanned by Fatah, by refusing to allow the use of city property for the Palestinian cultural festival and by barring a group of intellectuals from meeting in a city building unless they first apologized for criticizing Hamas. 
 Most troubling for Hamas, which ran on a platform of reform and lower prices, especially for electricity, has been an increase in electricity prices. No matter that Israel provides Qalqilya its electricity, and that prices have gone up everywhere because of higher oil costs. People in the market here are angry.
 ''Hamas promised to lower electricity prices, but increased them,'' said one resident, Youssef Sharwar. ''They promised reform, but I think they were lying.''
 Qalqilya ''is already under siege from the Israeli wall,'' said Mr. Zaid, the poultry merchant, referring to the separation barrier -- here mostly a 10-yard-high concrete wall -- that cuts off the city from Kfar Sava and curves around the Israeli settlements that overlook Qalqilya. ''But this vote has created another siege by the world.''
 Omar Rai voted for Hamas, but now regrets it. ''I worked in Hamas's campaign,'' he said, citing Fatah's reputation for lassitude and corruption. ''But they want to bring us back to Afghanistan!''
 Mr. Rai's comments were echoed by Ahmad Shraim, 57, a longtime Fatah leader here who has spent 22 years in Israeli jails. ''I've paid a heavy price for resisting Israeli occupation,'' Mr. Shraim said. ''And Fatah is paying a price here for its mistakes. But like me, Fatah will regain its strength.''
 Mr. Shraim scoffed at Hamas's promises to improve economic conditions here, citing the cost of electricity and charging that Hamas is featherbedding by hiring new city employees.
 The acting mayor, Hashem el-Masri -- he came in second to Wajih Qawas, who has spent the last 38 months in an Israeli jail without charges -- patiently rebuts the varying accusations from the market. Mr. Masri, 44, like many Hamas politicians, is an educated man, a pharmacist trained in Romania who owns three drugstores and a factory in Uzbekistan.
 Sitting at a large wooden desk in an enormous office, both inherited from the old mayor, Mr. Masri unrolls a colored flowchart depicting his reorganization of city administration. He waves a thick auditor's report from an independent Palestinian company into the city's tangled affairs. 
 ''The previous administration was not so clear,'' he said, with a touch of sarcasm. ''There were a lot of gaps.''
 He has retired the city's debt of $1.5 million, mostly for electricity, and expects a surplus this year in the annual budget of $6.4 million, despite 33 new employees and a 5 percent raise for the others. How? By auditing oversight and introducing competitive bidding for city contracts, he said.
 For instance, he said, the city is now spending two-thirds of what it did last year to pave roads, but will pave nearly twice as many square miles. The city managed to buy asphalt for $45.30 a ton instead of $66.67 and hired another company to do the work.
 But what about those electricity prices? He sighed. ''We get our electricity from Israel, and the prices have gone up because of the world price of oil,'' he said.
 Still, he insisted, people here pay the lowest prices for electricity on the West Bank because the city council is barely taxing it now. 
 ''Ordinary people understand we can't control the electricity price, but there are those opposed to us who have nothing against us except the price of electricity,'' Mr. Masri said, annoyed. ''It's just a small number of people who are looking for holes and have made electricity a big deal.''
 What about the cultural festival the Hamas council rejected in July, and the intellectual forum that Hamas recently barred from city property? Mr. Masri grew more annoyed. 
 ''They use this festival to try to catch fish in dirty water,'' he said. ''We didn't say yes or no. We just said they couldn't use a city facility. They could use some private place.''
 But did he approve of the festival?
 ''I was born here, and this is a conservative city that rejects a festival like this, mixing men and women with each other, with dancing and singing bands,'' he said. ''This is a Western mentality, and it conflicts with our beliefs and customs. Even when the mayor of Qalqilya was appointed by Israel, the city rejected a festival like this. If we said yes, it would mean we were part of this activity that the people reject.''
 He knows there was criticism, he said, adding: ''But this came from some columnists who want to see an American or European society here. The people don't want that, and our presence in city hall is a measure of that. When the people voted for us, they knew what we are. But we will not go into the street and force anyone to adopt what we believe in or do anything to affront the beliefs of any individual in Qalqilya. We represent everyone here -- that's our responsibility.''
 As for the forum, he scoffed. ''These are six former communists who are trying to sell themselves,'' he said. ''We told them they could have the hall, but first they had to apologize for making a false campaign against us on their Web site. Fatah may try to use this against us, but the people of Qalqilya know who these people are.''
 Asked about Hamas's commitment to a Palestinian state on all the territory that was Palestine and the destruction of Israel, Mr. Masri said he was merely in charge of local affairs. He would be happy to meet with the mayor of Kfar Sava and other Israeli officials if necessary for the welfare of the city, he said.
 And what about Hamas's military resistance to Israel?
 ''We are committed to the calm,'' he said referring to a cease-fire with Israel, ''but Israel arrests our members and kills not only our leaders but civilians, so it's natural after that to hear about a reaction. This circle of violence is evidence that Israel doesn't want the calm.''
 In the last month, he said, Israel has arrested ''more than 300 responsible figures of Hamas who were either candidates or coordinators for the election,'' a figure Israel does not deny; they included some of Hamas's most respected figures in the West Bank, like Sheik Hassan Youssef. ''This could affect the results,'' Mr. Masri said.
 Hamas ''is trying to create a balance between political and military issues,'' he said, and will not give up one for the other. ''Hamas is a resistance movement that will enter these elections to promote reform, but we remain a resistance movement.''
 In the market, Mr. Zaid, the chicken seller, praised the cease-fire with Israel, which makes it easier for Israeli Arabs to cross the separation barrier and shop here. 
 ''When the border is open and we're not under siege in a jail here, things are much better,'' he said. ''That's why Hamas agreed to the calm, to play politics,'' he said. ''A year ago, it wasn't like this.''
 Taleh Owaisi, 84, said he, too, had voted for Hamas. ''They do a good job, but people are suffering economically,'' he said. ''I thought the situation would change with them. I voted for them for change, to make life better. But it's worse now.''
 Is he sorry he voted Hamas? 
 He pulled at his robe, then finally said, ''Well, just now I don't know what's right and what's wrong.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hashem el-Masri, Qalqilya's acting mayor (the elected mayor is in an Israeli jail), in a prayer break. He and all city councilors belong to Hamas.
 Nasreen Nazzal, 20, a traditional preschool teacher in Qalqilya, had hoped for quicker change from Hamas. (Photographs by Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times)(pg. A12)Map of the West Bank highlighting Qalgilya: Dissent in Qalqilya is being fanned by Fatah, Hamas's rival. (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); AL FATAH (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (75%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); POULTRY (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); CORRUPTION (63%); RELIGION (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



71 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Where's That Veto Threat?

 BODY:
Twice this year, President Bush has stood on the world stage and promised to sharply increase development assistance to poor nations. At the Group of 8 summit meeting in Scotland in July, Mr. Bush pledged to double aid to Africa by 2010, compared with the level in 2004. And at a United Nations summit meeting in New York in September, he said, ''I call on the world's nations to implement the Monterrey Consensus,'' which calls for rich countries to increase their spending on development aid to 0.7 percent of gross national product by 2015. 
 Toward that end, Mr. Bush requested a $2.3 billion increase from Congress for poverty-related development assistance in next year's budget. But this week, House and Senate negotiators broke the promise. They agreed to a foreign aid budget that would cut nearly $2 billion from Mr. Bush's request. The president's much-hyped Millennium Challenge Corporation, which is supposed to provide money to poor countries that practice good governance, would be held to $1.77 billion, about $1.2 billion below the White House's request.
Lawmakers were more generous on another front, approving an estimated $2.82 billion to fight AIDS globally. But the battle against endemic poverty in Africa, Asia and Latin America is one that America, as the richest country on earth, must lead. Cutting funds from the amount requested by the White House is hardly the way to equip troops for that fight.
 Britain, France and Germany have all announced how they plan to reach that 0.7 percent goal for development assistance by 2015. The United States, which was rated the world's second-stingiest country (behind Italy) by a recent United Nations report, gives just 0.18 percent of its G.N.P. to poorer countries. 
 President Bush has done a better job than his predecessor, Bill Clinton, at ramping up assistance to Africa. But he hasn't come close to doing enough. His Millennium Challenge project has been slow off the mark, to say the least, signing contracts with only a handful of countries. Budget cutters in Congress say that until the program starts actually giving money to poor people, they're hard pressed to give it money. That's something of a dodge because those same lawmakers have shortchanged the program from the start. But the officers and board members of the Millennium Challenge Corporation -- including Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice -- must do more to breathe some life into the program.
 For the president, this is the time to show that his fine words about tackling global poverty are more than just words. His party is in charge -- both at the White House and on Capitol Hill -- and he has been willing to use the threat of a veto to try to stop a law banning torture at American military prisons. Why isn't he using that same power to push Congress into backing the foreign-aid promises he's been making to help the desperately poor?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); AIDS & HIV (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%); UNITED NATIONS (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); BILL CLINTON (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); GERMANY (75%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



72 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: To Fight Rising Prices, Fed Nominee May Need New Weapons 

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
Early in his tenure as chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan declared that the risk of too much inflation was so considerable that he would ''err more on the side of restrictiveness than of stimulus.''
 And he meant it. At his very first meeting, in August 1987, Mr. Greenspan established his inflation-fighting credentials by pushing up short-term interest rates in response to only a modest rise in consumer prices, a move that contributed to the stock market crash just two months later.
Ben S. Bernanke, who is expected to take over at the Fed in February, will almost certainly echo Mr. Greenspan's step, raising rates at his first meeting next year, in part to demonstrate his commitment, too, to keeping inflation under control. But for all the similarities of their actions upon taking office, Mr. Bernanke faces a fundamentally different set of circumstances than those that Mr. Greenspan confronted 18 years ago.
 ''Inflation is clearly not right around the corner like it used to be,'' said Edward M. Gramlich, until recently a Fed governor and now interim provost at the University of Michigan. ''The relationships are different, and Mr. Bernanke is going to have to figure them out.'' 
 Perhaps the biggest differences are the rise of global production, as well as much easier access to capital, particularly from abroad. Adding to the change is labor's weaker bargaining power. These factors have combined to greatly diminish the force of old-style inflation in which demand outran supply, pushing prices ever higher, and wages, too, until the Fed put the brakes on the economy.
 Instead, a new style of inflation has emerged as one of the principal threats to the economy. It is evident in the stock market bubble of the late 1990's and in surging home prices in this decade. This asset price spiral, as it is called, has proved much more resistant to the Fed's standard interest rate tool than traditional inflation.
 Mr. Bernanke, for his part, is known as an advocate of inflation targeting, a technique for adjusting interest rates with the aim of keeping traditional inflationary pressures within a limited range. He has also asserted, like Mr. Greenspan, that he does not intend to use interest rates prematurely to puncture an asset bubble. But he has signaled a readiness to use a different set of tools to fight the new inflation, and in this he departs from Mr. Greenspan.
 What lifts asset prices, Mr. Bernanke and others argue, is the willingness of lenders to offer riskier types of loans, which ''juice up the housing market and are not very responsive to interest rates,'' as Mark Zandi, chief economist at the research firm Economy.com, put it.
 Lenders can engage in riskier loans because they have developed techniques in recent years that make it far easier for them to shed their vulnerability to risk, doing so mainly by shifting the risk of default to others. The lenders operate in sophisticated markets that allow thousands of individual investors to purchase a slice of the original loan, and a slice of the risk. 
 In the past, the danger of default as rates rose tended to discourage lenders from making overly risky loans. The lender, often a bank, kept the loan and bore all the risk. Mr. Bernanke, in response to the risk shifting, has raised the possibility of limiting the dangers through the use of regulations -- microregulatory policy, he calls it. 
 ''There are two ways to approach bubbles: one is interest rate policy, the other is microregulatory policy,'' he said in a little noted interview published last year by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. ''Microregulatory policy is the much better approach, in my view,'' Mr. Bernanke said.
 Pursuing his point, he added: ''Research on historical episodes suggests that large asset price increases are sometimes preceded by credit booms. In many cases, this pattern results from the fact that the country in question deregulated its banking system, giving banks extra powers, but did not enhance the supervisory structure adequately at the same time.''
 The surge in oil and gas prices is another big source of inflation that Mr. Greenspan did not have to deal with in his early days as chairman, and through most of his tenure. Many economists argue that rising interest rates are a double-edged sword under such circumstances.
 They note that higher fuel prices do not blunt the demand for petroleum products. Rather than cut back on purchases of gasoline and heating oil, consumers offset the rising cost by cutting back first on other purchases: automobiles and appliances, for example. That slows the economy. Rising interest rates encourage this cutback, slowing the economy even more.
 ''Whereas in 1987, it was clear that the way to combat inflation was to raise interest rates,'' said Brian Sack, a senior economist at Macroeconomic Advisers who once wrote a research paper with Mr. Bernanke, ''today the Fed's policy makers have to be cognizant that the higher energy prices are slowing the economy'' on their own. 
 Not that Mr. Bernanke would be less diligent than Mr. Greenspan in resorting to interest rates to prevent inflationary expectations from creeping back into consumer and business behavior. That happens when prices rise unchecked, as they did during the oil shocks of the 1970's, encouraging people to buy more to avoid paying higher prices later.
 The stepped-up demand only encourages more price increases, and then wage increases to keep up with the price increases, until the Fed, in response, pushes interest rates so high that the economy is knocked flat on its back and demand finally is punctured.
 Paul A. Volcker took this route as Fed chairman in the 1980's; so did his successor, Mr. Greenspan, who pushed up rates to nearly 10 percent in his first three years, helping to provoke the early 90's recession, which further reduced the inflation rate. 
 Mr. Bernanke has no intention of reversing these gains. ''Inflation-averse central bankers,'' he said in a speech last fall, while he was serving as a Fed governor, before shifting to chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, are ''likely to contribute to increased central bank credibility and hence better policy outcomes.''
 But his world is different from Mr. Volcker's and Mr. Greenspan's. They dealt with a more closed, less global economy. If the nation's manufacturers were running their factories flat out, using all their productive capacity, and were still unable to meet demand, the shortages were considered inflationary. 
 That made capacity utilization a much-discussed concept in Mr. Greenspan's early days. It is now rarely mentioned, for good reason. The output -- the capacity -- of other countries pours into the United States. In 1987, factories in this country supplied nearly 95 percent of what Americans consumed; today they furnish less than 80 percent. 
 Another pillar of old-time inflation was wage pressure that intensified as unemployment fell. Not long after Mr. Greenspan became chairman, the jobless rate dropped below 6 percent and kept falling, a traditional signal that a shortage of workers would give them leverage to negotiate higher wages.
 Economists argued endlessly about how low the unemployment rate could go before inflation began to accelerate, pushed along by rising wages. They referred to this balancing act as the nonaccelerating inflation rate of unemployment, another economic concept seldom mentioned today. 
 The trade-off reflected labor shortages that have since diminished as additional production of goods and services has shifted abroad, in effect globalizing the nation's labor supply. The unemployment rate has held below 5.5 percent since February, but instead of rising, median wages -- adjusted for inflation -- have fallen. 
 The Fed's policy makers also responded much more in the late 80's to what they perceived as a potential shortage of capital. The concern was that American investors could not easily finance the Reagan administration's rising budget deficit and also the credit needs of the private sector. 
 The competition for the limited supply of funds came to be known as ''crowding out,'' another concept now discarded as foreigners, particularly the Chinese, pour their savings into Treasury securities. In 1987, 15 percent of all Treasuries were owned by foreigners; today 45 percent are. 
 ''It may have been the case,'' Mr. Gramlich said, ''that when the Fed tightened, the higher rates would crowd out some investment. Now you don't have that effect. Rates rise and you suck in more capital.''
 To be sure, the gradual shift to a more global economy and the vast expansion of global capital markets have not left the central bank with no inflation to fight. But the dynamics have changed. 
 ''Sometimes people ignore the rest of the world and think of the United States as an isolated island,'' said Alan S. Blinder, an economist at Princeton University and a Fed governor in the Greenspan era. ''That is clearly incorrect.
 ''Or you can view the United States as a big cork bobbing in a figurative sea that is the global economy,'' Mr. Blinder added. ''That is also incorrect.'' 

The Greenspan Effect
 Articles in this series will periodically examine Alan Greenspan's 18-year tenure as chairman of the Federal Reserve, scheduled to end in January. The articles will remain online at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Going Global''Growing foreign investment and rising imports are making the United States economy more interdependent with the rest of the world.Graph shows share of Treasury securities held by foreigners from 1987-2005 (As of June 30)Graph shows share of merchandise sold in the United States made by foreigners from 1987-2004(Sources by Federal Reserve
Census Bureau
 Economy.com)(pg. C13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



73 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; CAMPAIGNING FOR CITY HALL: THE ISSUES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1943 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Wins Wide Praise For Initiatives On Housing

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
Eleven months after taking office in 2002, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg unveiled the most ambitious housing initiative undertaken by any mayor since Edward I. Koch -- a $3 billion, five-year plan to begin to tackle New York City's housing shortage by producing 65,000 apartments and homes for New Yorkers with low and moderate incomes.
 Several years into the plan and facing an election next week, the Bloomberg administration says it has financed nearly 29,000 of the promised units; it has started construction on more than 12,000 and work on preserving some 16,000 units. It has rezoned large swaths of the city to make room for new apartments. Its Housing Development Corporation is now the nation's biggest issuer of bonds to finance lower-cost housing.
And the administration says it financed an additional 18,550 units before its plan went into effect. 
 Housing has become one of the hottest issues in the mayoral campaign. Mayor Bloomberg's Democratic opponent, Fernando Ferrer, has accused the administration of not doing enough to solve what is increasingly called the crisis of affordability in the city. And while some find fault with specific elements of the mayor's housing policy, many housing experts say the administration has done more than any administration in decades to address the shortage of homes for low- and moderate-income people.
 The administration's record has been praised by community organizations, developers of low- and moderate-income housing and the city's extensive network of housing advocates, many of whom say they have found the Bloomberg administration more interested in housing, more open to new ideas and more willing to compromise.
 ''The mayor's first five-year plan put housing back on the screen in public policy,'' said Victor Bach, senior housing policy analyst at the Community Service Society of New York. ''There has been a long history of Washington looking the other way on housing issues. To find local government stepping into the breach is very heartening. That's what the mayor did. He put some fire into a major development initiative.''
 Much of what the administration has accomplished has been done under less than optimal conditions. Federal financing for low- and moderate-income housing has dwindled. The supply of city-owned buildings taken in foreclosures has almost run out, cutting off a major source of what was once low-cost land. With the real estate market booming, developers have options they have not had for years: They can build market-rate housing almost anywhere in the city.
 As a result, one part of the administration's strategy has been to rezone areas of the city to create more developable land, then to use so-called inclusionary zoning provisions to encourage developers to include lower-priced units. Other administration initiatives have included the creation of what is said to be a $200 million acquisition fund, supported by five major foundations, for low-interest loans to developers of lower-cost housing.
 In addition, the administration has agreed to use $130 million in Battery Park City Authority revenues to help subsidize low-income housing. It is enlisting developers to build affordable housing on vacant land, including parking lots, on New York City Housing Authority property. It wants to overhaul the city's building code in order to streamline regulation, allow new technologies to be used, and bring down construction costs.
 ''It's been a tremendous record,'' said William R. Frey, senior vice president for the Enterprise Foundation, a national foundation that works with investors, including banks, to encourage the development of housing for low-income people. In response to Mr. Bloomberg's 2002 initiative, Mr. Frey said, the foundation decided to invest a billion dollars in grants, loans and equity in New York City.
 ''In light of the challenges of affordability which face the city, they could have just allowed the market to pick up and pay significant amounts of money for city-owned property for development of market-rate projects,'' Mr. Frey said. ''But instead they have a program which allows for private development to happen but also created programs and resources targeted for affordable low-income housing development.''
 But even the administration's admirers want more done. Some want its housing programs more focused on the city's poorest residents. Some want inclusionary zoning to be official policy citywide. Some want greater priority given to housing the homeless, a more aggressive approach to policing housing-code violations, and more attention to what they say are the shortcomings in the city's rent regulation rules.
 Michael McKee, associate director of Tenants and Neighbors, a statewide organization that lobbies for tenants' rights, accused the administration of ignoring the loss of moderately priced apartments from the city's rent regulation system as a result of vacancy decontrol. He faulted Mayor Bloomberg for failing to take on the State Legislature to try to regain local control of the rent regulation rules -- a fight that others doubt the city could win.
 ''It doesn't do any good to build a few thousand units when you're losing hundreds of thousands of units,'' Mr. McKee said. ''It's like one step forward and five steps back. The failure of the mayor to fight for home rule over our rent laws the way he fought for control over the schools will prove deadly to the future of the city. It's going to be a market-rate town. It means there won't be any affordable rental housing.''
 Shaun Donovan, the commissioner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said the administration had produced a net gain in affordable housing.
 Many housing advocates who praise the mayor's efforts have been especially admiring of Mr. Donovan, who remembers being at Yankee Stadium as a child during the 1977 World Series when Howard Cosell, the sportscaster, famously observed that the Bronx was burning. Mr. Donovan became fascinated by urban policy and poverty at Harvard, then embarked upon a career in low- and moderate-cost housing.
 By the time Mayor Bloomberg appointed him in 2004, Mr. Donovan had earned two master's degrees and had worked for a private mortgage lender, had served as acting commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration in Washington, and had been a managing director of a mortgage capital company, overseeing $1.5 billion in debt and equity investments in subsidized low- and moderate-income housing.
 Outlining his housing plans for a second term in office, Mayor Bloomberg two weeks ago proposed building or preserving an additional 100,000 homes for poor and moderate-income New Yorkers by 2013. Among other things, he said the administration would create a new city agency to finance the construction of rental apartments for families with incomes between $50,000 and $100,000.
 Under the plan, the city would also make greater use of inclusionary zoning. And it would intervene to insure the continuing affordability of apartments in privately owned low- and moderate-income buildings with state and federal subsidies that are expiring.
 ''I think the mayor seems to be very much focused on affordable housing,'' said Shaun M. Belle, president and chief executive of the Mount Hope Housing Company, which develops and manages housing for low-income people in the Mount Hope and Morris Heights sections of the Bronx. ''That as a policy mandate is important to us because it sends a signal that he is in tune with the fact that the average person in the city finds it extremely difficult to pay for housing.''
 For decades, the city's affordable housing policy centered largely on selling off its inventory of blighted property, taken through tax foreclosure in the 1970's and 1980's and then made available for development as low-income housing. The program was so successful, however, that the land ran out; the Bloomberg administration announced in August that it was selling its last 248 lots.
 The city's population, meanwhile, has climbed to an all-time high. Real estate prices have risen sharply. According to Mr. Bach, 65 percent of poor households pay more than half their income in rent. And thousands of apartment buildings built several decades ago with federal and state subsidies in return for renting to low-income tenants are now becoming eligible to leave the programs and start charging market-rate rents.
 Confronted with the shortage of land and the strong housing market, the Bloomberg administration has ''upzoned'' three major areas -- Hudson Yards and West Chelsea in Manhattan, and Greenpoint-Williamsburg in Brooklyn -- to encourage development. Under pressure from community groups, it adopted inclusionary zoning provisions under which developers can build at higher densities if they include some percentage of lower-cost units.
 To help finance an estimated 30,000 homes for low- and moderate-income New Yorkers, the administration and five major foundations, including Rockefeller and Ford, also set up the New York City Affordable Housing Acquisition Fund. The aim is to provide speeded up access to loans and loan guarantees for land acquisition and predevelopment expenses borne by developers of low-income housing.
 At the same time, the administration has proposed another fund, the New York City Housing Trust Fund, made up of $130 million in Battery Park City Authority revenues. That money is to be used to subsidize housing for households with incomes well below the area's median household income as well as to buy up portfolios of ''at-risk properties,'' buildings in danger of slipping out of the affordable category, including buildings with expiring subsidies.
 Meanwhile, the city's Housing Development Corporation, which provides financing programs to create and preserve low- and moderate-income housing independent of the city budget, now has $4.8 billion in bonds outstanding, up from $2.8 billion in 2001. The agency makes available low-cost mortgages through the sale of bonds, as well as subordinate mortgages through its own corporate reserves.
 ''The private market will be increasingly important going forward,'' said Emily A. Youssouf, the investment banker whom Mr. Bloomberg appointed president of the agency in 2003. Ms. Youssouf has worked to reinvigorate the agency; her predecessor, Russell A. Harding, a Giuliani administration appointee, was sentenced in July to more than five years in prison for embezzling more than $400,000 from the agency.
 Among other things, the Housing Development Corporation has put in place new programs to ensure that some 59,000 Mitchell-Lama apartments remain affordable to the middle class. The agency has issued $235 million in bonds to fund refinanced mortgages, lent $57.5 million from corporate reserves for capital improvements, and financed the rehabilitation of 6,500 units.
 ''If you're going to provide for a city that continues to attract immigrants and that continues to attract a mix of people, then you have to provide not just one kind of housing opportunity but a myriad,'' said Mr. Frey. ''You have to provide for middle income, moderate income, younger couples starting out, lower-income families who continue to be vital in providing services and working in the city. That's the kind of mix that you want to see from an administration, and I think they have done that.''

The Bloomberg Record
 This is the last article in a series examining Mayor Bloomberg's record on the issues. Previous articles have looked at crime, the economy, labor relations, education and social services. Campaign coverage is online at nytimes.com/metrocampaigns.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In April, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, shown with advocates for low- and moderate-income housing, proposed a $130 million housing trust fund. The city's housing advocates give him high marks for his efforts. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); ZONING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BOND ISSUES (74%); FORECLOSURE (72%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



74 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS SUMMARY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1286 words

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Chavez Taunts Bush On Eve of Talks
President Bush arrived in Mar Del Plata, Argentina, for a gathering of Western Hemisphere leaders and was greeted by strong anti-American sentiment and taunts from Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez. Mr. Chavez is using the international summit meeting to protest the administration's free trade message and to attempt a showdown with Mr. Bush. A8

Violence Continues in France 

Angry French-Arab youths clashed with police officers and firefighters outside Paris in the worst of sevenstraight nights of violence set off by the accidental death of two teenagers. A3

Hamas Rule in Palestinian Town
Qalqilya, where the radical Islamic group Hamas won every seat on the city council five months ago in a major shock for Fatah and the Palestinian Authority, is emerging as a test case for Hamas's foray into electoral politics. Hamas's rule has brought a new measure of modernity to the town while setting off grumbling among locals that the group is trying to impose a strict Islamist morality on the town. A1

Israeli Troops Shoot Youth
Israeli troops mistakenly shot and seriously wounded a Palestinian boy who was holding a toy gun as they clashed with Palestinian men in Jenin while trying to arrest a local leader of Islamic Jihad. A12

Hostages' Deaths Are Ordered
The Islamic militant group Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia announced in an Internet posting that it would kill a Moroccan diplomat and driver who were kidnapped in Iraq on the highway from Jordan last month. The American military also announced the deaths of three more American soldiers, bringing the three-day death toll for American troops to eight. A10

New Tests in Milosevic Trial
More than three years into the trial of Slobodan Milosevic, judges are facing a new test of the credibility of the international court. They can either allow the former Yugoslav strongman to overhaul his defense schedule or risk accusations of an unfair trial. A10

E.U. to Review Report of Jails
The European Union said it would ''seek more information'' on allegations that a member country and a would-be member, Poland and Romania, might have been sites of secret American jails for Qaeda suspects. The European Commission, the organization's executive arm, stopped short of starting a formal investigation. A25

Fleet Issues Agitate Venezuela
Unable to get spare parts for a fleet of American-made F-16 fighter planes from the United States, Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez has warned that he is prepared to give the planes to Cuba and China and replace them with Russian and Chinese aircraft. A4

NATIONAL A16-25

Former Cheney Adviser Enters Not Guilty Plea
I. Lewis Libby Jr. pleaded not guilty to obstruction and perjury charges in a case that lawyers on both sides acknowledged could stretch well into next year because of complications over access to classified files. A1

Greenspan on Tax Cuts
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, told lawmakers that they should not extend President Bush's tax cuts if they could not make up for the lost revenue with savings in other areas. A18

Cancer-Stricken Teen at Home
Vowing to seek the best cancer treatment possible for their 13-year-old daughter, Katie, Edward and Michele Wernecke reclaimed her from a Houston hospital, reuniting a family separated by a judge's order five months ago. A16

Senate to Trim Federal Benefits
The Senate approved a sweeping five-year plan to trim a wide range of federal benefit programs and to allow drilling for oil and natural gas in a wilderness area of Alaska, increasing the chances that the energy industry and Alaska officials will achieve a long-sought goal. A18

View on Church and State
Senators of both parties said Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr., the president's choice for the Supreme Court, told them he believed the court may have gone too far in separating church and state. A22

Senator Patrick M. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, concedes that Judge Alito has the qualifications to serve on the nation's highest court, but says unapologetically that the stellar resume is not enough. He plans to assess Judge Alito on ideological grounds. A1

EDUCATION

$100 Million for Small Loans
Pierre M. Omidyar, the founder of eBay, and his wife, Pamela, gave $100 million to Tufts University, under the condition that half the money must be invested in organizations that make small loans to poor people in developing countries, a field known as microfinance. A16

Aid Package for Storm Schools
After years of bitter, often partisan clashes on broadening federal assistance to private and parochial schools, the Senate approved by a unanimous voice vote a $1.66 billion aid package for public and private schools across the country that have taken in students displaced by Hurricane Katrina. A22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

$5 Billion Sought for Space
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration needs up to $5 billion more than previously budgeted to operate the space shuttle before the program ends in 2010, and the agency is looking for ways to reduce the shortfall, Michael D. Griffin, the agency administrator, said. A22

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Hybrid Cars Hit the Streets In New Era for City's Taxis
After a long battle between three Russian immigrant business partners and the city's Taxi and Limousine Commission, six Ford Escapes hit the road without fanfare and became the first hybrid-engine taxicabs, which run on a combination of gasoline and electricity, in New York City history. B1

Up Again at Ground Zero
Carpenters at the World Trade Center site prepared a 168-foot-long wooden trough through the footprint of the south tower at ground zero, in which the PATH terminal and transportation hub will emerge over the next four years. B2

Radio City Show Goes On
For the first time in the 73-year history of the annual ''Christmas Spectacular,'' Radio City's orchestra members, in a labor dispute, missed the debut, leaving the Rockettes to perform to prerecorded music. B1

WEEKEND E1-32; E33-44

ESCAPES F1-12

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-6

OBITUARIES C14

Waldemar Nielsen
An influential and widely recognized expert on the workings of charitable foundations who wrote exhaustive, critical analyses of America's foremost philanthropies, their goals and their methods, he was 88. C14

William L. McLaughlin
A radiation scientist who devised accurate and widely used methods for measuring the radiation absorbed by cancer patients and by many foods and commercial products, he was 77. C14

Fred S. Fox
A comedy writer whose career started in radio and who wrote for stars like Bob Hope, Lucille Ball and George Burns, he was 90. C14

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Merck Wins Vioxx Case
The drug giant Merck won decisively in the second Vioxx-related personal injury case to go to trial, an outcome that legal experts say could slow the flood of lawsuits against the company. A1

Buying Books by the Page
Amazon.com and Google, racing to become the iTunes of the publishing world, are both developing systems to allow consumers to purchase online access to any page, section or chapter of a book. A1

A New Inflation Strategy
Ben S. Bernanke, left, who is expected to take over as chairman of the Federal Reserve in February, has signaled a readiness to fight inflation with a different set of tools than the current chairman, Alan Greenspan. C1

Stores Report Strong Sales
The nation's retailers reported surprisingly strong results for October, despite fears that high fuel costs would keep shoppers at home. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Where's that veto threat?; in Paris, tough talk isn't enough; the Capitol's revolving door; the organic drift.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E4
TV Listings E32
Weather D7

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); TERRORISM (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); ADOLESCENTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); AL-QAEDA (74%); AL FATAH (74%); RELIGION (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); LAWYERS (70%); CITIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (66%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%); AL-QAEDA (54%); HEZBOLLAH (54%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (54%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); JORDAN (79%); ROMANIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (72%); POLAND (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



75 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Urges Congress To Offset Any Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, told lawmakers on Thursday that they should not extend President Bush's tax cuts if they could not make up for the lost revenue with savings in other areas.
 ''We should not be cutting taxes by borrowing,'' Mr. Greenspan said in testimony to the Joint Economic Committee of Congress. ''We do not have the capability of having both productive tax cuts and large expenditure increases, and presume that the deficit doesn't matter.''
Mr. Greenspan's comments are likely to be a headache for Mr. Bush and his Republican allies in Congress. They are struggling to pass tax cuts before Thanksgiving totaling $70 billion over five years, but would not try to offset the cost with savings in other areas. 
 The biggest of the cuts would be a five-year extension of Mr. Bush's 2003 tax reduction on stock dividends and capital gains, which is set to expire at the end of 2008. The Fed chairman, a Republican, repeated his longstanding support for reducing dividend taxes, on the ground that they amount to ''double taxation'' of profits, first at the corporate level and then at the individual. But in unusually pointed language, he all but said he would prefer giving up that cut if Congress did not make up for the cost with spending cuts.
 ''I would say, let's confront the question of the trade-offs -- of what the advantages are of keeping or even increasing the reduction of the double taxation on dividends with the context of what other priorities there are,'' he told the lawmakers.
 Mr. Greenspan's comments could strengthen the hand of moderate Republicans, especially several in the Senate, who worry that the tax cuts will worsen the federal budget deficit at a time when spending continues to soar. 
 The deficit dropped nearly $100 billion in the 2005 fiscal year, which ended Sept. 30, to $319 billion. But Mr. Greenspan took cold comfort Thursday from that decline.
 ''Even apart from the hurricanes,'' he said, ''our budget position is unlikely to improve substantially further until we restore constraints similar to the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990,'' which imposed caps on discretionary spending.
 Mr. Greenspan's career as a Fed governor expires at the end of January, and Mr. Bush has nominated Ben S. Bernanke, a former Fed governor and now a top White House economic adviser, to succeed him as chairman. Mr. Bernanke has supported Mr. Bush's tax cuts since joining the White House, and he is less likely than Mr. Greenspan to insist on ''pay as you go'' for them.
 Mr. Greenspan made it clear in his testimony that he was worried more about rising inflation than about any slowing in growth. He did note that the pace of inflation, other than in energy prices, remained mild. But he also said that some of the main forces behind the low level of inflation, including the emergence of China and other low-cost countries as major exporters, would not suppress a rise in prices forever. 
 And he warned that American consumers were likely to face an unpleasantly expensive winter, with natural gas prices remaining high and, if the weather proves colder than normal, perhaps spiking.
 ''I think people are going to be quite surprised by their heating bills this winter,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); INFLATION (73%); DIVIDENDS (72%); WEATHER (65%); THANKSGIVING (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



76 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Bush at Hemisphere Talks: Trade Fight Awaits 

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: MAR DEL PLATA, Argentina, Nov. 3 

 BODY:
President Bush arrived in this beach resort city on Thursday night for a gathering of Western Hemisphere leaders after one of the worst weeks of his presidency, only to be greeted by strong anti-American sentiment and taunts from Venezuela's populist president, Hugo Chavez.
 Mr. Chavez, who has repeatedly accused the Bush administration of trying to assassinate him and invade his oil-producing country, is using the international summit meeting here to protest the administration's free trade message and to attempt a showdown with Mr. Bush, the man the Venezuelan government calls ''Mr. Danger.'' 
Air Force One landed shortly after 8 p.m. on a rainy spring evening, and Mr. Bush went immediately to his hotel, the Sheraton Mar del Plata, on a bluff overlooking the Atlantic.
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Chavez are expected to see each other Friday in a group session at the opening of the Summit of the Americas, a two-day, 34-nation gathering. The meeting is officially to focus on creating jobs and promoting democracy. But Mr. Chavez said this week that his main goal at the meeting was the ''final burial'' of the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas accord, which is already stalled.
 The White House strategy is to ignore Mr. Chavez as much as possible. ''President Chavez has been pretty vocal about how he sees the summit and what he hopes to achieve at the summit,'' Thomas A. Shannon, the assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs, told reporters on Air Force One on Thursday as it headed for Argentina. ''I mean, he's going to behave the way he wants to behave.''
 Even so, on Tuesday Mr. Bush did not denounce a longstanding request from Mr. Chavez that the Argentine government build a nuclear reactor in Venezuela for energy production.
 ''I guess if I were a taxpayer in Venezuela, I would wonder about the energy supply that Venezuela has,'' Mr. Bush said in an interview at the White House on Tuesday with a group of reporters from Latin American publications. ''But maybe it makes sense.'' Mr. Bush added that ''it's the first I've heard of it.''
 A little more than 24 hours later, Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, appeared to backtrack when he noted that Mr. Chavez had asked a number of countries to build a nuclear reactor in Venezuela, and that he was far from a deal.
 ''I think that's because people recognize that it would be problematic for Chavez to be in the nuclear business, if you will,'' Mr. Hadley said, adding that ''this trip, this summit, is not about Hugo Chavez.''
 But behind the scenes on Thursday, the United States and Venezuela were intensely jostling for advantage. As a result, negotiators were still struggling to come to an agreement over the final text of a joint communique, meant to be based on a consensus, that the leaders here hope to issue when the meeting ends on Saturday.
 In a section on job creation, United States representatives have suggested taking note of ''the 96 million people who live in extreme poverty'' in Latin America and the Caribbean, subsisting on $1 a day or less. But Venezuela would agree to that statement, Latin American diplomats said, only if the following phrase were also included: ''while in the United States there are 37 million poor.''
 The deepest disagreements had to do with the issue of free trade, which Mr. Bush has offered as the key to economic growth in the hemisphere. Washington is said to be pushing to issue a statement favoring the resumption of negotiations aimed at establishing the free trade accord, abbreviated F.T.A.A., but has met resistance not only from Venezuela but from Brazil and Argentina, too.
 ''The only language which is a problem is F.T.A.A.,'' said Jose Miguel Insulza, the secretary general of the Organization of American States. ''We're moving toward a solution, not in the meeting but in the corridors.''
 At a parallel ''People's Summit'' in Mar del Plata on Thursday, organized by a coalition of left-wing, indigenous and antiglobalization groups, American proposals on free trade also came in for criticism, as did Mr. Bush himself.
 ''We Said No and No Means No: No to Bush, No to F.T.A.A. and No to Repaying the Debt,'' read one large banner at the conference, held in a group of tents and classrooms on the campus of a local university. Several thousand people attended.
 ''We've had enough of neo-liberalism and the damage it has inflicted on our societies,'' said Juan Montenegro, who came from Buenos Aires to take part. ''Bush is trying to destroy Iraq with bombs and guns and Latin America with an economic program that will rob us of our sovereignty.''
 The ''antisummit'' began early in the week and is expected to culminate Friday in mass protest marches, led by Alfonso Perez Esquivel, the Nobel Peace Prize winner, and Diego Maradona, the soccer idol. Mr. Chavez, with a foot in both of the gatherings here, is expected to be the main orator at a closing protest rally to be held at the main soccer stadium.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Liliana Denis, left, and Carmen Loretice of the Argentine human rights group Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo protested President Bush's visit. (Photo by Marcos Brindicci/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (85%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (85%); INTERVIEWS (79%); RESORTS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (62%); BOILER MFG (62%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); HUGO CHAVEZ (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); ARGENTINA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



77 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 736 words

 BODY:

The Jury in the Second Vioxx Trial Absolves Merck in a Product Liability Suit
The drug company Merck won decisively in the second Vioxx-related personal injury case to go to trial, an outcome that legal experts say could slow the flood of lawsuits against the company. After deliberating for about nine hours over three days, a jury in New Jersey found by an 8-1 vote that Merck was not at fault in a product liability suit over Vioxx, a pain medicine that was subsequently taken off the market. [Page A1.] 


Two Companies Race to Publish Books Online
In a race to become the iTunes of the publishing world, Amazon.com and Google are both developing systems that could revolutionize the book industry by allowing consumers to purchase online access to any page, section or chapter of a book. [A1.]

Retailers Report Strong October Sales Despite Oil Prices
From discounters to department stores, the nation's retailers reported surprisingly strong results for October, despite fears that high fuel costs would keep shoppers at home. Sales at stores open at least a year, a closely watched measure of a retailer's health, rose 4.4 percent in October, the industry's best monthly performance since June. [C1.]

Wachovia Plans to Re-enter Credit Card Market
The Wachovia Corporation, a North Carolina banking company, ended a credit-card marketing agreement with the MBNA Corporation, which is being acquired by the Bank of America Corporation, and said that it planned to re-enter the credit card market as a direct issuer, starting in January. [C3.]

Fundamental Differences Await Bernanke's Fed Term
When Ben S. Bernanke becomes chairman of the Federal Reserve, he will face similar inflationary concerns that Alan Greenspan had in 1987 along with some fundamental differences, like the rise of global production, easier access to capital and labor's weaker power. [C1.]

Productivity Growth Nearly Doubled in Third Quarter
Productivity growth nearly doubled in the third quarter as labor costs fell, an indication that the economy was growing at a strong clip without signs of widespread inflation. [C13.]

Citigroup Hires Former World Bank Chief as Adviser
Citigroup said James D. Wolfensohn, who left as president of the World Bank last spring after 10 years at the helm, would serve as a global strategy adviser to senior management and clients. [C3.]

A U.S. Executive Is Named Financial Times Editor
The editor of The Financial Times, Andrew Gowers, resigned over ''strategic differences,'' the newspaper's British owner, Pearson, said. The company named Lionel Barber, left, editor of the newspaper's United States edition, to succeed him. The company did not elaborate on what issues led to Mr. Gowers's departure, but the change follows several years of declining circulation at The Financial Times, particularly in Britain. [C3.]

Stocks Rise on Merck Verdict and Economic Data
Stocks rose, as Merck won a favorable verdict in a product liability trial and reports of increased optimism about the economy. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 49.86 points, at 10,522.59; the Standard & Poor's 500 was up 5.18 points, at 1,219.94; and the Nasdaq was up 15.91 points, at 2,160.22. [C5.]

The New CBS Acquires a College Sports Cable Channel
Viacom said the new CBS Corporation would acquire CSTV Networks, a cable channel and confederation of Web sites that focus entirely on college sports. The purchase will be made with $325 million in stock to be issued next year by CBS, which will be created after its split from Viacom. Advertising. [C3.]

Ford to Subsidize Ethanol Pumps in the Midwest
Ford, in partnership with the ethanol producer VeraSun Energy, plans to announce that it will subsidize the installation of ethanol fuel pumps at gas stations around the Midwest. [C4.]

From Mazda's car that promises to use hydrogen to run a rotary engine to a General Motors sports utility vehicle powered by fuel cells, carmakers are competing at the Tokyo Motor Show to send car buyers a message: They have learned the lessons of the Prius, a gasoline-electric hybrid. [C1.]

Results at Volkswagen and BMW were hurt by a strong euro, high raw material prices and tough competition. [C13.]

Northwest Airlines Rated Worst for On-Time Performance
Northwest Airlines, in the midst of trying to negotiate wage concessions from its unions, had the worst on-time performance in September among 20 airlines tracked by the Department of Transportation. [C13.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Wachovia share prices since September, 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); BUSINESS TORTS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (88%); PRODUCTIVITY (86%); VERDICTS (78%); PERSONAL INJURY (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (75%); PUBLISHING (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); SAME STORE SALES (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); REAL ESTATE (71%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (93%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (82%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); GOOGLE INC (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (94%); MRK (NYSE) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (93%); BAC (LSE) (93%); 8648 (TSE) (93%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (55%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2005



78 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; BASIC INSTINCTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: This Winter, Do Sweat The Small Stuff

BYLINE: By M.P. Dunleavey. 
M. P. Dunleavey writes about personal finance for MSN Money.

 BODY:
DON'T let the recent warm spell fool you. It's shaping up to be a more expensive winter -- and not just because of the way rising fuel prices will kick up the cost of filling up your car or heating your home. 
 You're probably braced for these obvious increases, but may have forgotten that a spike in fuel and energy prices can cause smaller but still significant bumps in the cost of living. Somehow it's easier to fret about the bite of big expenses, and ignore the swarm of little price increases that may be nibbling away at your bottom line. 
An online survey last month conducted for Circuit City, for example, found that 40 percent of families were planning to hunker down at home and go out less, to save on fuel this season. That sounds virtuous -- and will make it easier for the other 60 percent to find parking at the mall. But even people who stay at home may want to keep an eye on the rising price of ordinary goods and services. 
 Last month the Consumer Price Index, the leading inflation indicator, showed that prices had risen a startling 4.7 percent in the 12 months through September. But the so-called core C.P.I., which doesn't factor in the cost of food and energy, rose only 2 percent. Economists may argue about which metric is more accurate, but let your wallet be the judge.

COMMUTING -- While the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Metro-North Railroad just announced a handful of temporary discounts to tempt more people to travel via train during the holidays, don't think that applies to all rail tickets. Amtrak not only increased fares by 5 to 7 percent last month, it is ''adjusting'' the discounts on monthly passes by 10 percent now and by 20 percent in February. That translates into a 10 to 20 percent fare increase.
 Taxi, anyone? Maybe not. The cost of a cab ride in New York, Chicago and other cities may be rising, as cab companies and drivers petition to allow a surcharge or fare increase to cover fuel costs. 

EATING -- You might expect your grocery bill to reflect higher transportation costs, but that's only part of the story. Food retailers across the country face an onslaught of rising costs on the back end, from suppliers and distributors who are passing along their increases in operating costs. ''We're seeing prices rise for everything from plastic containers to the paper we use to wrap the cheese,'' said Julie McAskin, director of marketing for Murray's Cheese Shop, which has retail shops in New York and a national wholesale operation.
 Add to that the impact of various hurricanes on the shrimp and potato, tomato and pepper harvests, among other items -- and it may not be long before you notice that the cost of eating has gone up.

SHOPPING AND SHIPPING -- Cost-conscious holiday shoppers may indeed decide to cut back on driving to stores and buy gifts online instead. If that's your plan, don't forget to factor in the higher cost of shipping. Both FedEx and United Parcel Service are passing along their increased fuel bills to consumers. A growing number of online retailers hope to keep shoppers logged on by offering ''free shipping with conditions,'' according to the National Retail Federation. But watch out for those conditions, which may include buying more stuff. And you may want to start paying attention immediately, because many retailers have kicked off the holiday sale season a few weeks early to get consumers to spend their holiday dollars now -- before the big heating bills hit.
 Given that the weather in the North has barely begun to turn cold, it's hard to say exactly how high some increases might be -- and where else they might crop up in the run of ordinary life. Many utility companies have announced that the rise in energy costs is also going to bump up electricity bills, for example. Some co-op and condominium buildings in New York and Chicago have started assessing energy-related surcharges.
 Sadly, even free pizza delivery may be under siege, as some local stores and national chains, like Papa John's, add fuel charges to the bill. 
 At the moment all these little cost-of-living increases may seem insignificant, but they do add up. While it may be satisfying -- and economical -- to drive less or scale back your winter travel plans, don't be surprised if you still feel a pinch here, there and possibly everywhere in the coming months. In times like this, it's not only the big cutbacks that will keep your finances in balance, but also the tiny everyday ones. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (86%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (86%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (79%); COST OF LIVING (78%); FOOD PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); WHOLESALERS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); FAMILY (69%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (66%); TRAVEL TICKETS (64%); CHEESE SHOPS (64%); WEATHER (61%); HURRICANES (60%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (60%) United States Economy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Consumer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Food; Railroads; Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; United States Economy; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Delivery Services; Retail Stores and Trade ; Computers and the Internet; Electric Light and Power; United States Economy

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Metro-North Commuter Railroad; Amtrak (National Railroad Passenger Corp); Fedex Corp; United Parcel Service Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%)

PERSON: M P Dunleavey

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



79 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Researchers Look to Create a Synthesis of Art and Science for the 21st Century

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Oct. 29 

 BODY:
As an actor and a founder of the politically active Electronic Disturbance Theater, Ricardo R. Dominguez is an unlikely faculty member at the nanoscience, wireless and supercomputing laboratory that opened its doors here on the campus of the University of California, San Diego, on Oct. 28. 
 However, Mr. Dominguez and an eclectic group of computer musicians, computer game designers and nanotechnology artists are very much a part of the futuristic research ''collaboratory'' being assembled by the astrophysicist Larry Smarr, director of the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology, or Calit2, a $400 million research consortium assembled over the last five years.
Mr. Smarr's idea can be discerned even in the architecture of the new Atkinson Hall, which is connected via 155 fiber-optic cables to the rest of the campus and to a smaller partner laboratory 75 miles away at the University of California, Irvine, as well as to research centers around the world. 
 The six-story Calit2 laboratory, which overlooks the Pacific Ocean, is designed for 900 faculty and student researchers. Two separate wings extend from the main building. On one side is an ultrasterile set of nanotechnology clean rooms designed for making devices like sensors for detecting pollutants, biological warfare agents and cancer cells. On the other side is a new digital media arts center composed of auditoriums and computer visualization laboratories, where the Calit2 scientists, engineers and artists can display their projects.
 For Mr. Smarr -- who as director of the National Center for Supercomputing Applications in the 1990's oversaw the development of Mosaic, the first World Wide Web browser -- this synthesis of art and science is vital in light of the role he expects artists to play in designing the future.
 ''Part of the artist's insight is to be able to interpret the future earlier than anybody,'' he said during an interview in the small hideaway conference room adjacent to his office. ''We regard the artist as fully equal with any scientist at Calit2.''
 That idea, which is anathema to some in the engineering-driven world of science and technology, influenced the thinking of the building's designers in the San Francisco office of NBBJ, the international architectural and design firm.
 ''We put the clean room and the media artists as close as possible so we could see the artists talking to the physicists and telling them what to do,'' said Mark Whiteley, an NBBJ director in San Francisco.
 Artist-scientist collaborations include work being done by the neuroscientist Mark H. Ellisman and Sheldon Brown, who is in charge of the New Media Arts group at Calit2. Dr. Ellisman's group was involved in the construction of a wall-size tiled computer capable of displaying 100 million pixel images of the brain, making it possible to view vastly more information than on a standard monitor. 
 However, the group found that it needed to design a new control language to deal with the huge amounts of visual information, and the scientists and artists are cooperating on ideas for visualizing scientific information.
 Natalie Jeremijenko, who refers to herself as an ''artist experimenter,'' is a former member of the engineering faculty at Yale interested in how society interacts with and uses toys. A current project is to create a pack of ''feral'' robotic dogs with artificial intelligence capabilities and let them loose in a San Diego neighborhood. The robots could be assigned some socially useful function, like searching for or ''sniffing out'' pollution.
 Last year Ruth West became the first artist in residence linking the biological sciences and the arts here. As part of the Calit2 Research in Computing and the Arts project earlier this year, she unveiled a collaborative project, Ecce Homology, to explore the relationship between genetics and culture. Named after Friedrich Nietzsche's ''Ecce Homo,'' the project explored human evolution by visually comparing genes from humans and rice plants. The installation was interactive, tracking the hand gestures of visitors standing in the gallery and allowing them to interact, using body movements, with an enormous projected wall display screen. They were able to discover similarities between the portions of the rice and human genomes stored in a computer database.
 The juxtaposition of digital art with next-generation science and technologies like wireless networks, biosensors and optical supercomputers gives Calit2 a degree of panache that has largely been lost in the American scientific and corporate research worlds in the face of financial cutbacks over the last decade.
 The project and the new Atkinson building invite comparisons to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Media Laboratory, founded by Nicholas Negroponte in 1980, which came to define a broad vision about the possibilities inherent in computing and technology through the rise of the dot-com era. 
 Now, however, it is possible that the torch of a new technology for the 21st century will be passed to Mr. Smarr and his laboratory.
 ''When I first heard about Calit2, I thought it was Media Lab West, but the context is so much larger,'' said Shahrokh Yadegari, a member of the music faculty who also has a degree in electrical engineering and is a former M.I.T. Media Lab student.
 Having overseen the creation of the Web browser and watched its ensuing impact, Mr. Smarr has a good sense of the profound effect new technology can have on society.
 He also has a sense that the United States is at a crossroads as a leader in technological and scientific innovation. Increasingly during the last decade, American corporate laboratories and government agencies have pulled back from supporting basic research. Mr. Smarr worries that the shift may have deeper consequences for the country than a decline in simple economic competitiveness.
 ''A society that doesn't support science is one that will be very different than the one we have known for the last 500 years,'' he said.
 In that sense, the Calit2 project has its own Medici family in La Jolla. Although the bulk of the money supporting the center has come from state and federal grants, the Jacobs family and its telecommunications company, Qualcomm Inc., have contributed $16.5 million. Irwin Jacobs, a former faculty member at the University of California, San Diego, was the founder of Qualcomm, now run by his son, Paul.
 ''California and the U.S. cannot rest on our laurels,'' Paul Jacobs said at the dedication of the Atkinson building on Oct. 28. ''We need this kind of investment in infrastructure to do the kind of visionary research that will keep us competitive.''
 Moreover, in contrast to earlier academic research efforts, which have kept corporate enterprises at arm's length, the charter for Calit2 is to integrate its research efforts deeply with start-up companies as well as with larger technology corporations.
 Mr. Dominguez, the political activist and actor, says he believes that Calit2 can deliver partly by bringing society closer to his artistic ideal of unifying humans with representations of humans in cyberspace.
 For Ramesh R. Rao, the director of the U.C.S.D. division of Calit2, the challenge is in picking up where the Media Lab left off.
 ''We have created Italy,'' he said. ''Now all we have to do is create Italians.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Larry Smarr, center, with Ramesh R. Rao, left, and Albert F. Yee in front of Atkinson Hall, above, the new home of the California Institute for Telecommunications and Information Technology at the University of California, San Diego. (Photographs by Sandy Huffaker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PHYSICS (89%); THEATER (89%); CLEANROOMS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTATIONAL RESEARCH (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); NEUROSCIENCE (71%); CANCER (71%); FIBER OPTICS (70%); INTERNET BROWSERS (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (57%); COMPUTER GAMES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (58%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



80 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New Jersey: Jersey City: City Drops Plans To Seize Tavern 

BYLINE: By John Holl (NYT)

 BODY:
Mayor Jerramiah T. Healy instructed the city's redevelopment agency yesterday to drop its effort to acquire a local tavern by eminent domain and use the property to lengthen a private high school's football field. For nearly five years the agency had been in a legal fight with Cheng Tan, the owner of the Golden Cicada, which backs up to the end zone and goal post of the field at St. Peter's Preparatory School. For the field to meet state regulations it needs to be lengthened by seven yards, according to school officials, who had asked the city for help. But the mayor said, ''It is not a valid exercise in eminent domain to take from a private owner and give to another private owner.'' John Holl (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (85%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



81 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 150 words

 BODY:
A front-page article on Wednesday about the hunger crisis in Malawi and neighboring nations misstated the amount of southern Africa relief contributed to the World Food Program this year by the United States Agency for International Development. While the agency did contribute $48 million in response to the food program's emergency appeal for southern Africa, it also provided the food program with $33 million in earlier contributions, as well as $7 million to a consortium of global charities working on the hunger crisis. 
 The article also misstated the content of the agency's $48 million emergency contribution and referred imprecisely to its arrival. The contribution includes shipments of corn, oil, wheat, sorghum and other foods, not just corn. And while some shipments are not expected to reach the region until late this year at the earliest, other shipments have already been distributed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (84%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAWI (90%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



82 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Grade for Wal-Mart on Report Card 

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 4 

 BODY:
With critics hammering Wal-Mart day after day, the company sponsored an unusual conference on Friday about its impact on America's economy, and it got some good -- and a few not so good -- grades.
 The best news for Wal-Mart was that a respected economic forecasting firm, Global Insight, found that by keeping its prices low and pressuring rival retailers over the last 19 years, Wal-Mart has kept the Consumer Price Index 3.1 percent below what it would have otherwise been. 
Chris Holling, executive managing director of Global Insight, told the 80 economists and journalists at the conference that Wal-Mart had increased the economy's overall productivity by three-quarters of a percent through steps like pressuring its suppliers to be more efficient. 
 In these ways, Global Insight found, Wal-Mart increased net consumer purchasing power by $118 billion last year, translating into savings of $401 a person.
 Global Insight, which Wal-Mart hired to conduct the study and organize Friday's conference, said Wal-Mart's savings to consumers resulted not from low wages but from numerous efficiencies, including its highly advanced distribution network. Global Insight found that Wal-Mart paid wages no lower than the average retail wage in the communities where it does business.
 But other economists, using some different data and assumptions, disputed that, finding that Wal-Mart wages were lower than the retail average and had pulled down wages for the nation's retail workers.
 Opening the conference, Ray Bracy, Wal-Mart's vice president for corporate affairs, hailed Global Insight's conclusion that Wal-Mart had lowered prices for Americans. He said the conference showed a new openness at Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, and an effort to improve its understanding of its strengths and its effects. 
 ''There is no debate about Wal-Mart in terms of the fact that we have low prices,'' Mr. Bracy said. ''There are also indirect savings, if you don't shop at Wal-Mart, because our competitors have to lower their prices.''
 Several economists who submitted papers for the conference gave Wal-Mart bad marks for its effects on wages and Medicaid spending.
 In a study of nationwide payroll data, David Neumark, a senior fellow with the Public Policy Institute of California, and two other economists found evidence that earnings for a county's retail workers fell by 3.5 percent eight years after Wal-Mart entered the county. 
 Mr. Neumark said there was even stronger evidence that after Wal-Mart opened in a county, total earnings per worker, retail and nonretail, fell 2.5 percent to 4.8 percent. One reason for the decline, he said, is that Wal-Mart pressures its suppliers to cut their costs and that may lead to lower wages for the suppliers' workers. Wal-Mart says its full-time workers earn an average of $9.68 an hour.
 Mr. Neumark wrote that his findings showed that ''residents of a local labor market do indeed earn less following the opening of Wal-Mart stores.''
 He said that the retailer had the most negative effect in the South where its stores are most numerous, noting that he had found that retail employment, total employment and total earnings per person in many counties fell as a long-term result of Wal-Mart's presence.
 Global Insight agreed that Wal-Mart led to a net increase in jobs, finding that Wal-Mart, by making the economy more productive, led to the creation of 210,000 jobs than would otherwise have existed.
 In a paper released this week that was not submitted for the conference, Arindrajit Dube, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, and two other economists found that the arrival of a Wal-Mart led to a reduction of 0.5 percent to 0.8 percent in average earnings per worker in the general merchandising sector. They found that Wal-Mart reduced take-home pay for retail workers by $4.7 billion annually.
 In the same hotel and 15 minutes before the conference began, the United Food and Commercial Workers Union announced that it was setting up an advocacy group to inform Wal-Mart workers of their rights. The move is intended to pressure Wal-Mart to improve pay and working conditions. The new group, Wal-Mart Workers of America, invited Wal-Mart workers to join it free by calling a toll-free number.
 The group will not be a formal union that seeks to negotiate contracts. 
 Wal-Mart's critics often say that many Wal-Mart workers earn so little that they receive food stamps. But Michael Hicks, a professor at the Air Force Institute of Technology, found that the presence of a Wal-Mart does not increase welfare or food stamp spending. But Mr. Hicks wrote, ''Wal-Mart does increase Medicaid expenditures by roughly $898 per worker,'' which he said was consistent with studies of other low-wage workers nationwide.
 Jerry Hausman, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and another economist found that Wal-Mart's prices average 15 to 25 percent below prices for identical food items at traditional supermarkets. He also found that Wal-Mart pressured supermarkets to cut their prices by 4.8 percent more than they would have. 
 Emek Basker of the University of Missouri found that Wal-Mart had a major impact in pushing down prices for several products, including shampoo, toothpaste and laundry detergents. She said the savings ranged from 1.5 percent to 3 percent in the short run to four times that long term. 
 Global Insight largely agreed, finding that Wal-Mart had held down prices of food by 9.1 percent nationwide and of nonfood goods by 4.2 percent by pressing down its own prices, and those of its competitors and suppliers, in the last two decades. 
 Over all, the economics firm found, Wal-Mart saved consumers $263 billion last year. But because Wal-Mart played a role in lowering inflation and that, in turn had helped hold down wage increases, the net rise in consumer purchasing power thanks to Wal-Mart was $118 billion. 
 Some economists questioned some of Global Insight's assumptions, including an effort to determine how consumer prices would have been different if Wal-Mart did not exist.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chris Holling of Global Insight, an economic forecasting firm, led a conference on Wal-Mart in Washington yesterday. (Photo by Ken Cedeno/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); MEDICAID (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



83 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: RECONSTRUCTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: U.S. SHOULD REPAY MILLIONS TO IRAQ, A U.N. AUDIT FINDS

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

 BODY:
An auditing board sponsored by the United Nations recommended yesterday that the United States repay as much as $208 million to the Iraqi government for contracting work in 2003 and 2004 assigned to Kellogg, Brown & Root, the Halliburton subsidiary.
 The work was paid for with Iraqi oil proceeds, but the board said it was either carried out at inflated prices or done poorly. The board did not, however, give examples of poor work.
 Some of the work involved postwar fuel imports carried out by K.B.R. that previous audits had criticized as grossly overpriced. But this is the first time that an international auditing group has suggested that the United States repay some of that money to Iraq. The group, known as the International Advisory and Monitoring Board of the Development Fund for Iraq, compiled reports from an array of Pentagon, United States government and private auditors to carry out its analysis.
 A spokeswoman for Halliburton, Cathy Mann, said the questions raised in the military audits, carried out in a Pentagon office called the Defense Contract Auditing Agency, had largely focused on issues of paperwork and documentation and alleged nothing about the quality of the work done by K.B.R. The monitoring board relied heavily on the Pentagon audits in drawing its conclusions. 
 ''The auditors have raised questions about the support and the documentation rather than questioning the fact that we have incurred the costs,'' Ms. Mann said in an e-mail response to questions. ''Therefore, it would be completely wrong to say or imply that any of these costs that were incurred at the client's direction for its benefit are 'overcharges.' '' 
 The Pentagon audits themselves have not been released publicly. Ms. Mann said Kellogg, Brown & Root was engaged in negotiations over the questioned costs with its client in the work, the United States Army Corps of Engineers. ''No timeline has been set for resolution of these issues,'' Ms. Mann said. The monitoring board, created by the United Nations specifically to oversee the Development Fund -- which includes Iraqi oil revenues but also some money seized from Saddam Hussein's government -- said because the audits were continuing, it was too early to say how much of the $208 million should ultimately be paid back.
 But the board said in a statement that once the analysis was completed, the board ''recommends that amounts disbursed to contractors that cannot be supported as fair be reimbursed expeditiously.''
 The K.B.R. contracts that have drawn fresh scrutiny also cover services other than fuel deliveries, like building and repairing oil pipelines and installing emergency power generators in Iraq. The documents released yesterday by the monitoring board did not detail problems with specific tasks in those broad categories, but instead summarized a series of newly disclosed audits that called into question $208,491,382 of K.B.R.'s work in Iraq.
 A member of the monitoring board said questions about the contracts ''had been lingering for a long time.'' Once the audits are completed, said the board member, who asked not to be identified because he did not want to be seen as speaking for the United Nations, the results will give the Iraqi government ''the right to go back to K.B.R. and say, 'Look, you've overbilled me on this, this is what you could repay me.' '' 
 The monitoring board authority extends only to making recommendations on any reimbursement. It would be up to the United States government to decide whether to make the payments, and who should make them. But Louay Bahry, a former Iraqi academic who is now at the Middle East Institute in Washington, said the board's findings would stoke suspicions on the street in Iraq, where there had always been fears that the United States invaded the country to control its oil resources.
 ''Something like this will be caught in the Iraqi press and be discussed by the Iraqi general public and will leave a very bad taste in the mouth of the Iraqis,'' Mr. Bahry said. ''It will increase the hostility towards the United States.'' 
 The audits may also come at a bad time for the Bush administration, since Vice President Dick Cheney's former role as chief executive of Halliburton has led to charges, uniformly dismissed by Mr. Cheney and the company, that it received preferential treatment in receiving the contracts. The early Kellogg, Brown & Root contracts in Iraq were ''sole sourced,'' or bid noncompetitively.
 ''The Bush administration repeatedly gave Halliburton special treatment and allowed the company to gouge both U.S. taxpayers and the Iraqi people,'' Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who is the ranking minority member of the House Committee on Government Reform, said in a statement on the new audits. ''The international auditors have every right to expect a full refund of Halliburton's egregious overcharges.''
 Some of those contracts were paid for with American taxpayer money, but others were financed by Iraqi oil proceeds. Because the monitoring board was created to oversee those proceeds, its audits focus only on the work that was financed with Iraqi money. The board consists of representatives from the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Iraqi government.
 Besides the Pentagon audits, reports from the private auditing firm K.P.M.G. and the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, a United States government office, were used by the monitoring board.
 Because Kellogg, Brown & Root employs K.P.M.G. separately for its own internal audits, the firm recused itself from some of the work on K.B.R. The recusal temporarily threw some of the auditing work into disarray, since K.P.M.G. had initially said that the conflict would not prevent it from proceeding. Ultimately, the special inspector general took over some of the work that K.P.M.G. dropped.
 But some of the K.P.M.G. audits that were carried out, relying on Iraqi ministry documents, turned up what appears to be clear evidence of mismanagement and corruption among Iraqi officials that was apparently unrelated to the K.B.R. work. In its report on the Iraqi Oil Ministry, the auditing firm used the euphemism ''nonrefundable fees'' for bribes in the awarding of oil contracts. ''We found two cases,'' the report said, ''where nonrefundable fees ($10,000 and $20,000) were charged to obtain tender documents (total contract value $150,302,897).''
 Other entries suggest the existence of $600,000 in ghost payrolling in the Electricity Ministry and additional evidence of bribes.
 The K.P.M.G. audits also show ample evidence of the chaos that permeated the early reconstruction effort in Iraq, with paperwork on hundreds of millions of dollars of contracts won by firms other than K.B.R. that were lost or never completed, making it difficult or impossible to tell if the work was carried out properly.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A line of oil tankers, run by Kellogg, Brown & Root, the Halliburton subsidiary, near Nassiriya, Iraq, in 2004. A United Nations-sponsored audit says the company's work in Iraq was performed poorly or at inflated prices. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUDITS (92%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMIES (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (67%); ENGINEERING (62%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KBR INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

TICKER: KBR (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS238110 POURED CONCRETE FOUNDATION & STRUCTURE CONTRACTORS (85%); NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (85%); NAICS237120 OIL & GAS PIPELINE & RELATED STRUCTURES CONSTRUCTION (85%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (85%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (85%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



84 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Anti-Bush Protestors Riot As Hemisphere Talks Open
Several hundred anti-Bush protestors smashed windows and looted stores blocks from the site of an international summit meeting in Mar Del Plata, Argentina, attended by President Bush. A1

9th Night of Violence in France 

France's worst urban violence in a decade exploded for a ninth night as bands of youths in Paris's immigrant-heavy suburbs set fire to dozens of cars and buildings as the government struggled over the violence and the frustrations fueling it. A1

Audit Faults Work in Iraq
An auditing agency sponsored by the United Nations recommended that the United States repay the Iraqi government for work by a contractor, a Halliburton subsidiary, that it said was overpriced or poorly done. The work was financed with Iraqi oil proceeds. A1

Traffic jams in Baghdad have become the most pervasive headache in a city of daylight assassinations and regularly exploding cars. A1

Insurgent attacks in central Iraq left at least 16 dead as Shiite Arabs across the country began celebrating the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. A10

Pakistan Delays F-16 Purchase
Gen. Pervez Musharraf, the Pakistani president, said he would postpone buying F-16 fighter jets from the United States as his country grappled with the devastation from the Oct. 8 earthquake, which killed more than 73,000 people. A3

Annan Cancels Trip to Iran
Secretary General Kofi Annan dropped plans to visit Tehran, citing a speech last week in which Iran's president said that Israel ''must be wiped off the map.'' A9

NATIONAL A11-14, 18

Hearing Date for Alito Leaves Bush Disappointed
President Bush said he was disappointed with the January date set by Senate leaders for hearings on the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. Mr. Bush had called for hearings to be held before Christmas. A fast timetable would have limited the opportunity for liberal groups to rally opposition to the confirmation. A12

Judge Alito has reliably favored big-business litigants as he has pushed the appeals court where he sits in a conservative direction. A1

San Francisco Gun Law Vote
With warring gangs igniting a surge in homicides in San Francisco in the last year, voters will consider the nation's strictest municipal gun control ordinances, which would ban the possession, sale and manufacture of handguns and ammunition within city limits. A11

Divorce Alters Children's Paths
Even in a so-called good divorce in which parents amicably minimize their conflicts, children inhabit a more difficult emotional landscape than those who grow up with married parents, according to a new survey of 1,500 adults age 18 to 35. A13

Congressman Subpoenaed
Representative Bob Ney, the Ohio Republican who is chairman of the House Administration Committee, was subpoenaed this week for documents and testimony in the federal corruption investigation of the Republican lobbyist Jack Abramoff, House officials announced. A14

Ban on Abusing Detainees
The Senate restated its support for banning the abusive treatment of prisoners in American custody, and the measure's Republican sponsor chided the House Republican leadership for delaying a vote on it. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Captain of Capsized Boat Used Alcohol, Test Shows
The captain of the tour boat that capsized in Lake George, N.Y., last month, killing 20 people, had used alcohol in the days surrounding the accident, federal investigators said. Experts said the findings, however, could not establish whether the captain was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the accident. B1

Radio City Complaint Filed
The union representing musicians at Radio City Music Hall said that they had filed a complaint claiming that Radio City's owner was trying to ''personally extort'' a public apology regarding their ongoing contract dispute, which has already cast a shadow over the annual ''Christmas Spectacular.'' B3

Clinton Backs a Hillary Run
President Bill Clinton told an Israeli television station that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton would make a better president of the United States in some ways than he did. Mr. Clinton, who usually avoids talking about his wife as a prospective presidential candidate, said she would come to the job with more seasoning and perspective than he had as governor of Arkansas in 1992. B3

Beliefs B6

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-7

ARTS B7-20

OBITUARIES A15

R.C. Gorman
A prominent Navajo artist known for his portraits of voluptuous women in flowing traditional dress, he was in his mid-70's. B14

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Jobs Report Disappointing
Job growth was surprisingly meager last month, the Labor Department reported, in a sign that business executives have become worried that the economic damage from high energy prices might be growing. Still, wages in October rose at their fastest clip in more than two years. C1

A late rally gave Wall Street a modest advance after the lackluster employment report. The major indexes each gained more than 1 percent this week. C6

Limits on Tamiflu Availability
A global debate is raging about whether Tamiflu production can be ramped up, even if the maker, Roche, bows to pressure to license its production to other companies. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Free trade begins at home; the time is wrong for tax cuts; that flurry of ballot questions; changing course (perhaps) on housing.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, John Tierney.

Bridge B14
Crossword B16
TV Listings B20
Weather C14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RIOTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); SUBPOENAS (86%); GUN CONTROL (84%); CHILDREN (83%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FIRES (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); ORDINANCES (72%); RAMADAN (72%); HOMICIDE (67%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); CHRISTMAS (66%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (66%); FIREARMS (65%); PARENTS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); APPEALS COURTS (62%); SMALL ARMS MFG (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SAMUEL ALITO (78%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); FRANCE (91%); IRAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



85 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW -- Noel Forgeard; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: On a Mission To Cajole The Pentagon 

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
In one of the biggest corporate slugfests, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, the parent company of Airbus, and the Boeing Company are engaged in a trans-Atlantic trade dispute over government subsidies. In the commercial aviation marketplace, they are going head-to-head with new lineups of innovative aircraft. 
 And in a bold move, EADS, one of Europe's leading military companies, is also challenging Boeing's longstanding grip on Pentagon contracts. For both companies, billions of dollars and global aviation domination are on the line -- as well as a lot of national pride. 
 Noel Forgeard, 58, became co-chief executive of EADS last June and has been shuttling between Europe and America. The company recently joined with Northrop Grumman to seek a $20 billion contract for the Air Force's aerial tanker program, which has long been exclusively Boeing's. And EADS is expanding aerospace operations in Alabama and Texas to create jobs. 
 Last week, Mr. Forgeard came to New York after a busy day in Washington, where he met with Senator John Warner, the Virginia Republican who heads the Armed Services Committee, as well as Senator Hillary Clinton, the New York Democrat, and Pentagon officials. Following are excerpts from that conversation:

Q. As you met with Washington power brokers, what was your message?

A. It is that we at EADS are here as citizens of this country. We have had great commercial activity here. We have a great supplier base and procure about $7 billion a year here. But now at EADS, we are going one step further and are willing to establish ourselves industrially in this country and engage in several major competitions. We not only want to sell products to the U.S., but to insource jobs here and contribute to the economy.

Q. Your offer to forgo financial aid for Airbus for a year in the launch of your new A350 commercial aircraft was brushed aside by U.S. government trade representatives. Was this a disappointment?

A. We are generally willing to find an amicable settlement to this dispute because we want to have a level playing field. We think it is better to compete in the marketplace than in the courts. It is a huge waste of time and energy to be going to the World Trade Organization. Our offer was our olive branch that we gave to the other side.
 There have been several pretty encouraging declarations from Boeing executives in recent weeks about their state of mind, and we are in the same spirit. Boeing has a new, great leader in James McNerney. I expect them to be more reasonable. In spite of what was said by the administration's spokesman, I'm an optimist. 

Q. What happens if your olive branch is rebuffed?

A. What we proposed was original and unexpected. But, if after months, nothing happens and we are not in view of any settlement, we might change our mind. But that is not our state of mind right now.

Q. Is this trade dispute harming your efforts to land Pentagon contracts?

A. We want to compete and we expect to be selected because we have great technologies. We do not want to play any political game or be selected for political reasons, but because we have excellent offerings to propose to the U.S. taxpayer.

Q. With a potential contract for 500 planes, the big prize is the Air Force tanker program. Or is this just the beginning?

A. For 500 tankers, this is a very, very great opportunity for us. We've taken on Northrop Grumman and we are the main subcontractor here, with a product with over 50 percent American content. For helicopters we also have excellent products, and we are first in the world. We are working with Sikorsky on a project for the Army for more than 350 helicopters.

Q. What are your prospects on the commercial aviation side, where you've been pushing the new fuel-efficient A350 and the superjumbo A380?

A. The market is very, very, very hot, and this year should be a record in terms of orders both for Airbus and its competitor. We are clearly in an upward trend. A350 has a strong start, with a backlog for 200 orders. Against Boeing's 787, it's a battle for the next 30 years. And the outlook for the A380 is absolutely excellent. The growth of the world market is such that it needs both jumbo airliners and medium-size planes, and we have both.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Noel Forgeard 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (96%); BOEING CO (96%); AIRBUS SAS (85%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (96%); EAD (MCE) (96%); BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%); NOC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (56%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (56%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JAMES MCNERNEY (58%); JOHN WARNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



86 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS BRIEFS

 BODY:

Berkshire Hathaway's Profit Falls by Half After Hurricanes Cause $2.99 Billion in Losses
Berkshire Hathaway said yesterday that its third-quarter earnings fell by almost half because of insurance losses related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Net income fell to $586 million, or $381 a share, from $1.14 billion, or $739 a share, a year earlier. Berkshire, the investment company run by Warren E. Buffett, said its losses from the hurricanes in the quarter that ended Sept. 30 totaled $2.99 billion, but that figure could change as additional claims are filed. Berkshire, which is based in Omaha, estimated that hurricanes Katrina and Rita had caused $60 billion to $70 billion of losses along the Gulf Coast, ''producing the largest catastrophic losses for any quarter in the history of the property/casualty insurance industry.'' (AP) 


Senate Panel Sets Nov. 15 Hearing on Fed Nominee
The Senate Banking Committee said yesterday that it would hold a hearing Nov. 15 on the confirmation of Ben S. Bernanke to succeed Alan Greenspan as Federal Reserve chairman. The committee, which has jurisdiction over the central bank, scheduled the hearing for 10 a.m. in Washington. The committee did not provide a date when it or the full Senate would vote on the nomination of Mr. Bernanke, who is chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers and a former Fed governor. (Bloomberg News)

Ford Names a Family Member as Chief of Staff
The Ford Motor Company named Steven K. Hamp, left, a career-long museum executive and the brother-in-law of Ford's chief executive, William Clay Ford Jr., as its chief of staff. Mr. Hamp, 57, has worked at The Henry Ford museum, founded by Mr. Ford's great-grandfather, for 27 years, the last 10 as president. Aside from holding a board seat at the Visteon Corporation, he has not worked for an auto company before. (Bloomberg News)

Fortune Brands Posts 59% Decline in Income
Fortune Brands, the maker of Titleist golf balls, Moen faucets and Jim Beam bourbon, posted a 59 percent decline in third-quarter income yesterday, hurt by the costs of its acquisition of spirits and wines from Allied Domecq. Fortune Brands, based in Lincolnshire, Ill., said net income fell to $92.2 million, or 61 cents a share, from $226.8 million, or $1.52 a share, a year earlier. The results included a charge of $83 million, or 55 cents a share, from its acquisition of about 20 spirits and wines from the British distiller Allied Domecq in July. Revenue rose 19 percent to $1.8 billion from $1.5 billion. (Dow Jones/AP)

Polo Ralph Lauren's Profit Rises on Full-Price Sales
The clothing designer Polo Ralph Lauren said yesterday that profit for its latest quarter surged 31 percent, as profit margins widened on more full-priced sales of high-end merchandise and greater efficiency. The company, which is based in New York, said income rose to $104.2 million, or 97 cents a share, from $79.3 million, or 77 cents, a year earlier. Revenue in the period, the second quarter of the company's fiscal year, rose to $1.03 billion from $895.6 million. (Dow Jones/AP)

British Software Concern to Buy a California Rival
The Autonomy Corporation, a British company that makes information handling software, said yesterday that it had agreed to buy a rival, Verity Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif., for $500 million to diversify its revenue streams. Autonomy said it would pay $13.50 in cash for each Verity share, a 30 percent premium to the closing price on Thursday. Verity supplies business search and process management software. Autonomy's chief executive, Michael R. Lynch, said in a statement that he believed the enlarged company would be better placed to develop the next generation of information access software. (Reuters)

Washington Post's Profit Falls on Hurricane Costs
The Washington Post Company said yesterday that its third-quarter profit fell 19 percent, weighed down by hurricane-related charges and lost revenue at its cable division. Earnings after preferred dividends fell to $66.3 million, or $6.89 a share, from $82.2 million, or $8.57 a share, last year. Revenue rose 7 percent, to $873.7 million from $820 million. The company, which said its cable division had 94,000 subscribers on the Gulf Coast of Mississippi, said costs from Hurricane Katrina cut operating earnings by $1.17 a share. The company also recorded gains of 54 cents a share. (AP)

Profit Rises but Subscriber Growth Slips at BSkyB
The Satellite TV operator British Sky Broadcasting Group posted higher quarterly net profit and revenue yesterday, but said subscriber growth had fallen as more customers canceled their contracts. BSkyB, Britain's largest pay TV operator, said net profit for the three months ended Sept. 30 rose 15 percent, to $:140 million ($247.2 million). Revenue rose 8 percent, to $:1.02 billion ($1.8 billion). The number of subscribers who left Sky was 11.7 percent, up from 10.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2004. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of Verity since September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (85%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WEATHER (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (69%); JURISDICTION (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); DISTILLERIES (66%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); FASHION DESIGNERS (61%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (83%); BEAM INC (82%); ALLIED DOMECQ PLC (64%); VISTEON CORP (64%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%); DOW JONES & CO INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%)

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (91%); BRK.A (NYSE) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); BEAM (NYSE) (82%); VC (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (91%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (82%); NAICS551114 CORPORATE, SUBSIDIARY & REGIONAL MANAGING OFFICES (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS337110 WOOD KITCHEN CABINET & COUNTERTOP MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (64%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (64%); SIC5182 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (64%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (64%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (64%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (59%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); ALAN GREENSPAN (52%); RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (74%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



87 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: PROTESTERS RIOT AS BUSH ATTENDS 34-NATION TALKS 

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER and ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: MAR DEL PLATA, Argentina, Nov. 4 

 BODY:
President Bush's troubles trailed him to an international summit meeting here on Friday as anti-Bush protesters turned violent just blocks from the gathering site, and Hugo Chavez, Venezuela's fiery populist leader, rallied a soccer stadium filled with at least 25,000 people against the United States.
 Mr. Chavez, who has tried to use the summit meeting to stage a showdown with Mr. Bush, pronounced dead a free trade accord backed by Mr. Bush, the Free Trade Area of the Americas. Left-wing groups throughout Latin America have long opposed the agreement, and some governments want more generous terms from Washington, so Mr. Bush had come here with hopes of jump-starting the stalled negotiations.
With the two-day summit meeting scheduled to end Saturday, negotiators were still struggling to find language endorsing the concept of free trade that would satisfy both the United States, its chief booster, and skeptics such as Brazil and Argentina, who have complained of American agricultural subsidies. 
 ''Every one of us has brought a shovel, because Mar del Plata is going to be the tomb of F.T.A.A.,'' Mr. Chavez said. ''F.T.A.A. is dead, and we, the people of the Americas, are the ones who buried it.''
 Several hundred rioters, separate from the crowd at the stadium, smashed windows, looted stores, chanted anti-Bush slogans and threw rocks at the police. Others lobbed gasoline bombs into a bank, causing a fire that destroyed the interior of the ground floor.
 Mr. Bush spent his day away from the cacophony in the streets, either in meetings with Latin American leaders at the Sheraton Mar del Plata, on a heavily guarded bluff overlooking the Atlantic, or behind the barricades at the summit sessions.
 The two were together in a group session, but Mr. Bush has so far refused to engage Mr. Chavez, and has tried to press the official summit themes of creating jobs and promoting democracy.
 The president told reporters that if he saw the Venezuelan leader at the summit, ''I will, of course, be polite.'' Mr. Bush added, ''That's what the American people expect their president to do, is to be a polite person.''
 Mr. Bush, who polls show is the most unpopular American president ever among Latin Americans, appeared to acknowledge the ruckus he was at the center of when he made a morning appearance with Argentina's president, Nestor Kirchner, the host of the gathering.
 ''It's not easy to host all these countries,'' Mr. Bush said, addressing Mr. Kirchner. ''It's particularly not easy to host, perhaps, me.''
 Beyond the economic issues, Mr. Bush was also trying to put political and personal relations with Latin America back on a positive track. As a candidate, he promised a new era of closer, more respectful, foreign relations, but governments in the region have complained consistently that what they got instead was neglect and indifference, especially after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks that made terrorism the focus of American foreign policy.
 The Bush administration sought Friday to play down the protests, although the one official who directly addressed them on Friday, Thomas A. Shannon, the assistant secretary of state for inter-American affairs, spoke before the demonstrations became violent.
 ''I would just note that the kinds of demonstrations that we're going to see here in Mar del Plata are not unusual around these kinds of larger international gatherings,'' Mr. Shannon told reporters, in response to questions about the peaceful rally in the soccer stadium.
 Police officers in riot gear responded with tear gas, and the violence appeared to be under control by evening. Banners carried by the looters and the graffiti they left on building walls indicated that they were members of several radical labor unions and far-left political parties that in the past have clashed with Mr. Kirchner.
 The violence broke out at almost exactly the same time that Mr. Kirchner was delivering his welcoming speech to the gathering of 34 Western Hemisphere leaders, the Summit of the Americas, in the Teatro Auditorium, part of this resort city's heavily barricaded beachfront casino complex.
 As the violence flared, Mr. Bush and the other leaders remained inside at the gathering.
 Earlier in the day, Mr. Chavez, Mr. Bush's chief antagonist in Latin America, addressed some 25,000 peaceful protesters for more than two hours in the city's main soccer stadium. Mr. Chavez also accused the Pentagon of having a secret plan to invade his oil-rich country, similar to charges, always denied by the United States, that Mr. Chavez has made in the past.
 ''If it occurs to American imperialism, in its desperation, to invade Venezuela, a 100-years' war will begin,'' he said. Calling for Latin American unity in the face of what he described as American hegemony, he also said that ''either our nation will be free or a flag will wave over its ruins. But we will not be a North American colony.''
 Before Mr. Bush left on his trip, he brushed off a question about possible protests during an interview with reporters from Latin American publications.
 ''Look, I understand not everybody agrees with the decisions I've made, but that's not unique to Central or South America,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Truth of the matter is, there's people who disagree with the decisions I've made all over the world. And I understand that. But that's what happens when you make decisions.''
 There were also protest marches in Buenos Aires, the capital, where a branch of BankBoston and some fast food outlets, including a McDonald's, were attacked in the afternoon. Earlier in the day, a major teachers union announced a one-day strike to protest Mr. Bush's presence in Argentina.
 In Mar del Plata, a favorite vacation spot south of Buenos Aires for middle-class Argentines, the violent protesters first made their way to the steel barriers marking the security perimeter around the summit site. At first, witnesses said, they merely threw rocks and gasoline bombs at police officers at the checkpoint and chanted slogans attacking Mr. Bush.
 The riot police appeared after the attack on the bank and began to fire tear gas canisters and rubber bullets, forcing the protesters, most wearing ski masks or kerchiefs to hide their identity, to pull back. But as they did so, they attacked more than 50 of other stores and businesses, shattering windows and piling furniture, papers and computers in the street, where they were set ablaze.
 Nearly all of those directly involved in the attacks seemed to be young men, some of them armed with truncheons, pipes, and slingshots that fired metal screws and bolts, others simply throwing rocks, bricks or chunks of concrete. The police said that more than 60 arrests were made.
 At Mr. Chavez's peaceful rally, the Venezuelan president nonetheless mocked and taunted Mr. Bush, mostly without referring to him by name and occasionally just calling him ''Mister,'' in English. Latin American presidents should keep their distance from the American leader, Mr. Chavez said, ''because one by one, Bush's puppets have fallen.''
 As Mr. Chavez spoke, he was interrupted by chants from the crowd mocking Mr. Bush. Every mention of Fidel Castro, in contrast, was cheered, as were frequent references by Mr. Chavez to his desire to unite all of Latin America in a new wave of socialism.
 ''Chavez's is a voice that represents the entire Latin American community and the values we uphold, from national sovereignty to economic independence,'' said Silvio Torres, a 29-year-old government worker. ''Would that every country were fortunate enough to have a leader like him.''
 Mr. Chavez's rally atthe soccer stadium was preceded by a long march in a cold rain through the near-empty streets of this resort, Fearing violence and clashes with the police, many store owners along the route had closed their businesses and boarded up their windows. But that demonstration, at least, was entirely peaceful.
 The thousands of protesters carried banners calling Mr. Bush a ''fascist,'' ''child-killer'' or ''genocidal beast,'' some with the ''s'' in his named replaced by a dollar sign or a swastika.
 One marcher, Rafael Abu-Adal, a 52-year-old teacher from Buenos Aires, carried an Iraqi flag. His objective, he said, was not only to express solidarity with the Iraqi people, but also to draw a parallel to Latin America's situation.
 ''They are victims of American imperial power, and we are potential victims,'' he said. ''Bush has destroyed their country with bombs, and unless we stop him, he will destroy ours through F.T.A.A.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Under banners of the revolutionary hero Che Guevara, opponents of President Bush's plan for a trade pact filled a soccer stadium yesterday. (Photo by Pilar Olivares/Reuters)(pg. A1)
 President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, sporting a Cuban national baseball cap, told a stadium full of protesters that the free trade accord of the Americas was dead and urged resistance to ''American imperialism.'' (Photo by Dario Lopez-Mills/Associated Press)(pg. A9)Map of Argentina highlighting Mar del Plata: President Bush and his opponents converged in Mar del Plata. (pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); VANDALISM (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); JOB CREATION (67%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (52%); AGRICULTURE (52%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); NESTOR KIRCHNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); BRAZIL (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (75%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



88 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Our Love-Hate Relationship With Wal-Mart 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH NOCERA

 BODY:
AT the turn of the last century, a new phenomenon arose in America: the chain store. The most dominant chain was the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company -- A.& P. -- which by 1930 had become the country's fifth-largest corporation, with $1 billion in sales, and was ''opening stores at a rate unprecedented in the history of American retailing,'' according to Richard S. Tedlow, the author of ''New and Improved: The Story of Mass Marketing in America.''
 The New York Times described A.& P. that year as ''the world's greatest retailing machine.'' Its president, John A. Hartford, attributed the company's success to its policy ''of immediately passing on reductions in wholesale commodity prices to the consumer,'' as The Times put it. Under Hartford, writes Mr. Tedlow, ''A.& P. had one dominant mission: to sell quality food at low prices.'' 
Of course, the rise of A.& P. had other consequences as well. When A.& P. came to town, it usually meant that many mom-and-pop grocery stores went out of business. Food wholesalers were squeezed, and were sometimes cut out entirely, as A.& P. took ever greater control of the supply chain. And the company's emphasis on keeping prices low for its customers meant that it was ruthless about keeping wages low for its workers.
 Can you guess what happened? Sure you can. Unions agitated, sometimes violently, to organize A.& P.'s workers. Federal legislation was passed intended to prevent the big chains from getting price breaks from manufacturers that small stores couldn't get. More than half the states enacted ''chain taxes.'' And anti-chain-store oratory flourished. ''We can whip these chain stores,'' one populist radio commentator used to proclaim. ''We can drive them out in 30 days if you people will stay out of their stores.'' 
 But that's precisely the point: people didn't stay out of the stores. Instead, they kept shopping at A.& P. even though it meant that some of their neighbors lost their businesses, and others worked for low pay. In time, the opposition to the big chains faded, and they became a part of a commercial landscape we now take for granted. The desire for low prices trumped all other considerations. In America, unlike, say, Europe, it always does.
 THESE days, there is another huge chain store that finds itself under populist attack: Wal-Mart. For most of its existence, the company was lauded for its low prices, its astonishing logistical abilities, its rah-rah culture and its rising stock price. There was a widespread feeling, very much shared by Wal-Mart's management, that it was doing God's work in making goods affordable.
 Indeed, a reasonable argument can be made that over the last 10 or 15 years, Wal-Mart has done more to keep inflation in check than Alan Greenspan has. After all, Mr. Greenspan, the Fed chairman, can't force Procter & Gamble to roll back a planned increase in the wholesale price of toothpaste. Wal-Mart can -- and does. 
 But now that Wal-Mart vies with Exxon Mobil as the largest company in the country, with more employees than the United States Army, the worm has turned. Instead of embracing Wal-Mart, many communities now fight to keep the company out. Groups like Wal-Mart Watch have sprouted, bent on exposing the company's evil ways. Wal-Mart's low wages (less than $10 an hour, on average) and stingy benefits (employees often have to rely on Medicaid because they can't afford or are not eligible for Wal-Mart's health plan) have galvanized union activists.
 Just last week, for instance, Wal-Mart Watch, an ally of the unions, got hold of an internal Wal-Mart memo, which it leaked to The Times. In it, Wal-Mart fretted about rising health care costs and suggested that the company might start ''discouraging unhealthy people from working at Wal-Mart,'' as The Times put it. And last night, an anti-Wal-Mart documentary, entitled ''Wal-Mart: The High Cost of Low Price,'' had its premiere in New York and Los Angeles.
 The documentary, which I saw this week, is of the Michael Moore variety. A polemic intended to enrage viewers, it catalogs all of Wal-Mart's suspected sins, from forcing small businesses to close, to paying so little that its workers need food stamps, to its supposed reliance on Asian sweatshops.
 Not surprisingly, Wal-Mart refused to cooperate with the film, but the movie's producer and director, Robert Greenwald, made no effort to find anyone who was remotely sympathetic to the company. The background music turns melancholy as each Wal-Mart victim tells his or her sad story.
 Mr. Greenwald makes no apologies. ''Here is a corporation with $10 billion in profits,'' he said a few days ago, and yet, in his view, it treats two huge constituencies -- its workers and the communities where it does business -- in ways that are deeply unfair. ''It's not right,'' he said. (The actual 2004 profits were $9.1 billion, but who's counting?)
 Although the movie will be shown in a few dozen theaters around the country, Mr. Greenwald's real strategy is to sell DVD's for $12.95 to activists who will screen it in an effort to gain more converts to the cause. ''This is not a model for maximizing profits,'' Mr. Greenwald said proudly. He struck me as the modern equivalent of the radio populists during A.& P.'s heyday.
 So far, Wal-Mart's efforts to rebut its critics have been largely inept. On Tuesday, for instance, it sent its director of corporate affairs, Mia Masten, to New York to try to counter the film, which was being screened that night as a fund-raiser for a group called Wal-Mart Free NYC Coalition. But no one at Wal-Mart had actually seen the movie, so she was reduced to mouthing platitudes, which she did both nervously and unconvincingly. 
 And yesterday, the company held a conference for academics and journalists to examine Wal-Mart's impact on the economy. Although some of the papers presented at the conference are critical of the company, the centerpiece was a study by the economic research firm Global Insight that purportedly shows, to quote the headline of the Wal-Mart news release the company sent me, that ''Wal-Mart Saves Working Families $2,329 Per Year.'' That may well be true, but the fact that Wal-Mart paid for the study will largely undercut its ability to persuade anyone not already in its camp.
 Here's the thing, though. Whatever you might think of its tactics, its wages, its effect on communities and its economic power, Wal-Mart, for the most part, has played by the rules we as a society have set for it. That's what the anti-Wal-Mart folks tend to leave out of their analysis.
 ''Wal-Mart has devised an extremely efficient way to deliver low prices to consumers and good returns to shareholders,'' said Robert Reich, the former labor secretary who is now a professor at Brandeis University. ''That is American capitalism,'' he added. ''That is what the system rewards.'' 
 Mr. Reich -- who, remember, was a member of the Clinton administration -- doesn't even blame Wal-Mart for the fact that its workers often need to rely on Medicaid. ''Medicaid,'' he said, ''is designed for the working poor and the poor. If we are not happy about the results, then the real question we ought to be asking ourselves is whether we should be changing the rules. Wal-Mart is an invitation to have that debate.''
 The new documentary has a number of short clips showing the Wal-Mart chief executive, H. Lee Scott Jr., speaking to investors, employees and others. In one clip, he says quite bluntly that the company can't raise wages without cutting into the profits that its shareholders expect it to generate. That may sound awfully harsh, but it is undeniably true. We live in an economic culture that exalts ''shareholder value'' above pretty much everything else. Can you really expect Mr. Scott and his company to turn its back on that?
 Similarly, what was true 70 years ago remains true today: we could shut down Wal-Mart and allow small local stores to thrive by doing one simple thing: shopping at the latter instead of the former. But we don't do that. We buy our drugs at drugstore chains like CVS, our food at grocery chains like Safeway, our tools at Home Depot or Lowe's -- and just about everything else at Wal-Mart -- for the most basic of reasons. Americans love a bargain. Many of us who would choose not to have a Wal-Mart in our backyard still can't resist shopping there once it opens. Wal-Mart's growth is a direct result of its understanding of that fundamental fact.
 Do we really want to change Wal-Mart? If the answer truly is yes, then we need to change ourselves first.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An early A.& P.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); TEA (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); WRITERS (76%); FOOD PRICES (76%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (70%) Retail Stores and Trade; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Food; Supermarkets; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: GREAT ATLANTIC & PACIFIC TEA CO INC (94%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co of America

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (94%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (94%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

PERSON: Joseph Nocera

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



89 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: High Prices For Energy Hold Down Job Growth

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Job growth was surprisingly meager last month, the Labor Department reported yesterday, in a sign that business executives have become worried that the economic damage from high energy prices might be growing.
 Still, wages in October rose at their fastest clip in more than two years, leaving open the possibility that the hiring slowdown will turn out to be temporary.
Employers added only 56,000 jobs in October, well below the 150,000 or so that are needed to keep pace with population growth. The Labor Department also said that 36,000 fewer jobs were added in August and September than previously estimated.
 ''Job growth has kind of stalled out,'' said Bill Cheney, chief economist of John Hancock Financial Services in Boston. ''It's a puzzle,'' he added, noting that economic growth, retail sales and other indicators remained strong. 
 Hiring over the last three months has fallen to its lowest level since the summer of 2003, when the economy finally began to emerge from a hiring slump that had lasted three and a half years. Recent hurricanes have played a role, leaving many Gulf Coast residents out of work, but job creation was also weak across much of the country last month, Kathleen P. Utgoff, commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, told Congress. 
 With interest rates rising, the hot housing market cooling and energy costs coming off a two-decade high, some executives and economists are concerned that consumer spending will slow in coming months. For now, though, most forecasters expect hiring to pick up before the end of the year.
 As poor as the October hiring number was, the government's monthly employment report offered a number of reasons for optimism.
 The jobless rate fell slightly, to 5 percent from 5.1 percent. It is calculated from a survey of households, which economists consider less reliable than the much larger survey of businesses that produces the job-growth numbers.
 But the household survey sometimes captures hiring by small companies before the business survey does and in recent months has offered a rosier picture of the economy. Last month, for instance, the number of workers holding part-time jobs because they could not find full-time work dropped to its lowest point since 2002.
 The business survey, meanwhile, showed that the average wage for rank-and-file workers rose 8 cents last month, to $16.27 an hour. That is equal to an annualized increase of more than 6 percent.
 ''There is an increased level of business caution,'' Drew T. Matus, a senior economist at Lehman Brothers, said. ''But these kind of wage gains don't make sense in light of the low level of hiring unless business just decided to pause for the month.''
 Still, wage growth has risen less than 3 percent in the last year, while inflation has been running close to 4 percent, effectively cutting many workers' pay.
 The spike in inflation, caused largely by oil prices, seems to have soured many Americans on the economy, despite its continued growth. In a recent poll by the University of Michigan, 60 percent of people said that they expected the next five years to bring periods of widespread unemployment. 
 Not since 1992 have so many people given that answer. In the middle of last year, fewer than 40 percent of respondents did. 
 In October, car dealers, hotels, restaurants and movie and music studios all cut jobs. Department stores added fewer jobs than they typically do during October; that shows up as a loss in the Labor Department report, because the government adjusts its numbers to account for normal seasonal variations.
 Across the economy, in fact, employment rose by 702,000 jobs last month. But the government reported a seasonally adjusted gain of only 56,000 because most of the new jobs were part of the usual October jump in employment.
 John E. Silvia, chief economist of Wachovia Corporation, said many of the sectors cutting jobs depended on consumers, who might eventually react to high gasoline and heating prices by cutting other spending, even if they have yet to do so. On Thursday, retailers reported surprisingly good sales numbers for October. 
 ''It's hard to put this all together,'' said Mr. Cheney of John Hancock.
 Job gains last month came from manufacturers, banks, hospitals, doctors' offices, residential contractors and computer systems companies. The end of a strike by Boeing workers helped cause a jump in the number of workers at transportation-equipment factories, and the early rebuilding of the Gulf Coast probably pushed up construction employment.
 Economists still expect the Federal Reserve to keep raising its benchmark short-term interest rate in coming months in an effort to tame inflation. Alan Greenspan, the departing Fed chairman, testified to Congress Thursday that he viewed inflation as a bigger threat than weak economic growth.
 The Fed has increased the benchmark rate, now at 4 percent, during each of its last 12 policy-setting meetings. It seems poised to do so again at the two remaining meetings before Mr. Greenspan's retirement early next year; Ben S. Bernanke has been nominated as his successor. 
 Investors are predicting that the Fed will increase the rate at one of the first two meetings after Mr. Greenspan's departure but not at both, based on the price of a futures contract tied to Fed policy. 
 The widening of income inequality in recent years appeared to continue last month. Workers at financial, information and professional-services companies -- who tend to be highly paid -- all got big raises. Raises at factories, warehouses, tourism companies, schools and health care providers were smaller. 
 In his testimony this week, Mr. Greenspan said the country was going through ''a very marked changed in the distribution of income.''
 He added: ''We have clearly observed a major increase in the need for skilled workers to basically staff our ever increasingly complex technological capital stock.''
 The dropout rate in high schools and colleges was too high for the economy to be fully staffed with qualified workers, Mr. Greenspan said.

 1-MONTH CHANGE: -1.0
1-YEAR CHANGE: -1.7

Teenagers (16-19)
OCT.: 15.9
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1
1-YEAR CHANGE: -1.3


DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
In weeks: Average
OCT.: 18.1
1-MONTH CHANGE: -1.1%
1-YEAR CHANGE: -8.1%

In weeks: Median
OCT.: 8.6
1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.
1-YEAR CHANGE: -9.5

AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS
Rank-and-file workers
SEPT.: $549.93
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.5%
1-YEAR CHANGE: +2.9%

SHARE OF POPULATION
Employed
Oct.: 62.9%
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1
1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.5

Labor force (workers and unemployed)
Oct.: 66.1
1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.1
1-YEAR CHANGE: +0.1


'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (In millions)
Working part time, but want full-time work
OCT.: 4.3
1-MONTH CHANGE: -7.2%
1-YEAR CHANGE: -3.6%

Persons who currently want a job<7>
OCT.: 4.8+
 1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.8
1-YEAR CHANGE: -6.1

UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVEL
Less than high school
OCT.: 7.1%
1-MONTH CHANGE: -1.1
1-YEAR CHANGE: -1.1

High school
OCT.: 4.8
1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.2
1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1

Some college
OCT.: 3.8
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.2
1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.4

Bachelor's or higher
OCT.: 2.3
1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.1
1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2

BY TYPE OF WORK (in millions)
Nonfarm
OCT.: 134.1
1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.
1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.4%

Goods
OCT.: 22.2
1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.2
1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.0

Services
OCT.: 111.9
1-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.
1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.5

Agriculture
OCT.: 2.1
1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.9
1-YEAR CHANGE: -1.5

Graph tracks employment, nonfarm payroll, 12-month change for the past year.

Graph tracks the unemployment rate over the past year.

Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.
*Hispanics can be of any race.
+Not seasonally adjusted.
<7>People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.

(pg. C13)


GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank Silletto looks for a driver job at a Denver Workforce Center. The jobless rate fell slightly, to 5 percent from 5.1 percent last month. (Photo by Matthew Staver for The New York Times)(pg. C13)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in October''BY DEMOGRAPHICSWhiteOCT.: 4.4%1-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3BlackOCT.: 9.11-MONTH CHANGE: -0.31-YEAR CHANGE: -1.6Hispanic*OCT.: 5.81-MONTH CHANGE: -0.71-YEAR CHANGE: -0.9AsianOCT.: 3.1+

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); JOB CREATION (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); STATISTICS (73%); WEATHER (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); INTEREST RATES (65%); RETAIL SALES (53%) 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (70%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%) Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



90 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Home Building Loses Its Commanding Lead in Setting Economy's Pace 

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
THE building of houses, which buoyed the American economy during the 2001 recession and then spurred the recovery, is no longer leading the economy up.
 Figures released this week by the Commerce Department showed that private construction spending set a record in September, but the third-quarter average was only 6.5 percent above the figure in the quarter a year ago, before adjusting for inflation. That matched the growth of the overall economy. By contrast, in 2004 residential construction spending was growing twice as fast as the overall economy. 
While home builders were raking in the money, other areas of construction were not nearly as strong. The most drastic change was in office construction, which set a record in December 2000, when spending hit a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $58 billion. By early 2003, the rate had fallen more than half, and most of that lost ground has not been made up.
 A result has been a fundamental shift in the proportion of private construction spending going to building homes and apartments. The proportion fluctuated around 60 percent of total spending for years, but now it is around 70 percent. That makes the economy potentially more vulnerable than it usually is if housing construction were to decline sharply.
 By contrast, office buildings now account for a little more than 4 percent of the private construction budget, half what they accounted for in 2000. Commercial building, of stores and malls, has not suffered as much, but it has lost a quarter of its market share.
 A person looking for signs of an American industrial revival -- or at least an end to decay -- could take heart from the figures for manufacturing construction. Its share of the total construction pie, above 9 percent a decade ago, fell to 3 percent but has now stabilized and even begun to edge up. In dollars, September spending was at an annual rate of $27.6 billion, up almost 40 percent from the low reached in February 2003.
 An area with little sign of a turnaround is utility construction. Spending on communications sites has stabilized, but power plant spending in September reflected an annual rate of $22.6 billion, the slowest pace since early 2001. Over all, the utility share of private construction spending is down to 4.2 percent, the lowest since the government began collecting such figures in 1993.
 There has been widespread talk of a cooling in the housing market, and mortgage applications have slowed in recent weeks -- possibly an indicator of slower sales to come. But while spending on residential construction is no longer rising at 20 percent or more a year, as it was a year ago, it is still rising. Builders, it appears, are not worried.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Fading Boom''Private construction spending was a source of strength for the United States economy for much of the last decade. A year ago, it was growing twice as fast as the overall economy, but over the last four quarters it has grown at a slightly slower rate. Spending on new homes and apartments was the big factor in the boom, but the residential share of construction spending is down a little from the peak reached earlier this year.Graph tracks cumulative change since Q4 '95 (in nominal dollars) for G.D.P. and private construction spending. (Data are quarterly)Graph tracks share of total private residential and nonresidential construction spending. (Data are quarterly)Graph tracks share of total private construction spending:OFFICE CONSTRUCTIONCOMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTIONUTILITY CONSTRUCTION*MANUFACTURING CONSTRUCTION*Includes communications and power(Source by Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); STATISTICS (89%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); MARKET SHARE (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) Housing; Building (Construction); United States Economy; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



91 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Stirred, Not Shaken

BYLINE: By Liam M. Brockey. 
Liam M. Brockey teaches European history at Princeton.

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J. 

 BODY:
ON Nov. 1, 1755, a powerful earthquake followed by a tidal wave laid low Lisbon, trapping thousands beneath rubble and ruins. To make matters worse, the hundreds of candles that had been lighted in honor of All Saints' Day at the city's churches toppled over, starting a fire that lasted for days. This succession of calamities occurred with such rapidity and force that Lisbon, as it had been known to plebeians and philosophes, was no more. 
 In Voltaire's ''Candide,'' the most famous account of the events of that day, the sight of such destruction spurred one of Candide's companions to take off on a looting spree but led another to wonder why such a dreadful event had occurred. ''It is surely the day of judgment,'' answered Voltaire's naif a moment before a chunk of flying masonry left him prostrate. 
But Candide soon found out that it was not the end of times and that the only judgment at hand was his own. After being denounced by a familiar of the Inquisition for listening with an air of approval to a heretical proposal, Candide was sent to be flogged at an auto-da-fe held amid the smoldering remains of the Portuguese capital -- a ceremony that was supposed to prevent future earthquakes.
 Candide escaped Lisbon and fled across miles of Iberian countryside for Cadiz, pulling the attentions of 18th-century European readers with him. Many no doubt agreed with Voltaire's judgment that Lisbon was a redoubt of superstition, a bastion of irrationality best wiped from the face of the earth. As far as they were concerned, Voltaire's subtitle, ''Optimism,'' was ill applied to the fortunes of the Portuguese capital. 
 But in little over a decade Lisbon rose spectacularly. Much of the dynamism behind its reconstruction was generated by one man, Sebastiao Jose de Carvalho, the Marquis of Pombal. During the 27-year reign of the distracted dilletante King Jose I, Pombal was chief minister and de facto head of state. It had taken the marquis 50 years to reach the summit of power, and the rebuilding of Lisbon was one of his greatest challenges. After all, the city's destruction required the wholesale re-creation of Portugal's financial and administrative systems. It demanded a leader with tremendous foresight and the political will to match -- not to mention the coercive force to transform his plans into reality. The discarded hulks of the Portuguese Inquisition and the Jesuit order were monuments to the strength of Pombal's will. 
 The marquis had an ambitious reconstruction plan. His goal was to transform Lisbon from a medieval jumble of irregular streets and awkward squares into a model of rational urban planning. Pombal commissioned a team of military engineers, led by an 80-year-old general, Manuel da Maia, to survey the city and oversee its reconstruction. 
 The new Lisbon would be a monument to the Enlightenment, a living metaphor of effective government. The rhythm of the city's heart would no longer be maintained by church bells and religious processions, but by the affairs of state. No church was built to command the city's new focal point. Instead, Pombal organized the government's ministries around a square that he dedicated to business, the Praca do Comercio. Even the names of the city's new arteries reflected Pombal's conviction that Lisbon needed earthly efforts rather than divine assistance to regain its prosperity; the Street of the Crucifix ceded its place of honor to the Street of Gold. 
 Other avenues saw age-old saintly patrons dismissed in favor of humble tradesmen like leatherworkers and shoemakers. And to ensure that future generations would not have to worry as much about future earthquakes, Pombal insisted on the use of wooden trusses and supports in every new edifice in Lisbon. These gaiolas, or cages, have been on duty for more than two centuries, absorbing the shocks of the odd tremor and ensuring that the legacy of the marquis stands firm.
 This week, even as Americans ponder how to raise one of their own great cities from the aftermath of disaster, Lisbon's grateful inhabitants marked the 250th anniversary of their city's devastation. They once again recognized Pombal's role in its resurrection, echoing the strains of gratitude first heard in the late 19th century when a massive monument was planned to honor him at the junction of five of the city's boulevards. There, a bronze marquis still surveys the city, monitoring its pulse and regulating the flow of its lifeblood. Silently acknowledging the tribute to his ambition to see Lisbon arise from the ruins, he peers down in haughty approval at the four concentric circles of traffic that flow eternally at his feet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TSUNAMIS (89%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); FIRES (77%); WEATHER (74%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); HURRICANES (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); LAND USE PLANNING (64%); ENGINEERING (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Earthquakes; Tsunamis and Tidal Waves

ORGANIZATION: NEW ORLEANS SAINTS (58%)

PERSON: Liam M Brockey; Sebastiao Jose de Carvalho

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%) PORTUGAL (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) New Orleans (La); Lisbon (Portugal)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



92 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: THE CHALLENGER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: The 2 Ferrers: A Plodder in the Polls, a Celebrity on the Street

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
For Fernando Ferrer, there may be two New Yorks, as he is fond of saying. But there are also two campaigns. 
 In one, which plays out in the polls, among political leaders and on the Sunday morning news programs, Mr. Ferrer's effort is on life support, incapable of rousing itself and headed for an undignified death.
But in the other, a kind of shadow operation that exists along shopping strips, outside subway stations and in church basements, there is a palpable excitement and optimism for Mr. Ferrer, who in this parallel political universe is both a celebrity and an inspiration.
 Flashes of this alternate reality surface in all five boroughs and just about every day. This week, one flash came when more than 300 voters showed up at a Lower East Side community center to meet Mr. Ferrer, and responded to him with wild cheers. Yesterday morning near Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, another was apparent when several New Yorkers on their way into the subway pledged their votes to Mr. Ferrer, including Richard Collie, a neighborhood resident who cited Mr. Ferrer's opposition to the enormous Atlantic Yards development project. 
 And then one evening in Park Slope, Marty Bernstein, an organizer with the Central Brooklyn Independent Democrats, urged a crowd to help Mr. Ferrer because ''it was under this mayor's watch that the N.Y.P.D. ran roughshod over the protesters,'' he said, referring to antiwar demonstrators during the Republican National Convention. ''That's why it's so important to elect Freddy Ferrer and get this bum out of office who's trying to buy the election.''
 And on an afternoon in Corona, Queens, Nurys Sancedo, a hospital worker, waved emphatically at Mr. Ferrer as he rode by on his campaign vehicle, a blue and white school bus reshaped to resemble a flatbed truck. ''People need apartments to live,'' Ms. Sancedo said. ''Many people don't have money to pay a lot of rent. I'm working hard for many, many years, but some people don't work, and they're waiting for a place to live.''
 Indeed, it is moments like these -- when people spontaneously swarm close to shake his hand or when drivers stop traffic to honk their horns and give a thumbs-up -- that allow Mr. Ferrer, as well as his supporters and staff members, to remain game-ready against the throbbing backbeat of doom.
 ''We always say that the most dangerous place to be is a retail walk with Freddy Ferrer,'' said Patrick Gaspard, who oversees the field operation, ''because you're going to get trampled.''
 The state attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, noted a similar phenomenon after campaigning with Mr. Ferrer on the Upper West Side on Thursday. ''I can tell by the sensibility out on the street, this is a close race,'' he said.
 But whether that groundswell will be enough to push Mr. Ferrer into contention with Michael R. Bloomberg or over the top on Election Day is an open question. Even those supporters who seem the most animated are also aware of the daunting odds he faces.
 ''I admire him for his work, but I know he's going to lose,'' said Angel Gonzalez of Fort Greene, Brooklyn, who ran across the street yesterday to shake Mr. Ferrer's hand. ''I guarantee he's not going to win. But it's like I tell everybody: You Puerto Ricans, you got to vote for your own kind no matter what. It doesn't make a difference if he's going to win or lose. Stand behind him; maybe he might win, and then he could help you out.''
 Several supporters said the biggest obstacle to Mr. Ferrer is the mayor's checkbook.
 ''The power of money has become so overwhelming that people who you would think would see clearly are sort of having their vision clouded by this vision of 'Maybe his wealth will rub off on me' or something,'' said Gerard Cabrera, a political organizer who lives in Vinegar Hill, Brooklyn. ''But it's infuriating.''
 Nonetheless, he added brightly, he had been feeling discouraged by his candidate's poor showing in opinion polls, but was buoyed by the enthusiastic response he received campaigning for Mr. Ferrer at an arts festival in Dumbo, on the Brooklyn waterfront.
 ''I said, you know, 'Vote for the only Democrat running for mayor,' and I'd get a big smile, or, 'Vote for somebody who isn't trying to buy the election,' '' he said.
 Throughout the city, there are signs that many voters are hearing Mr. Ferrer's message and adopting it as their own. In Brooklyn one morning, Lujira Cooper, a freelance photographer and writer who lives in East Flatbush, said she was planning to vote for him.
 ''I don't like Bloomberg,'' she said. ''I just don't think he's working enough for the folks. We need better education, and I agree with the priorities of not doing social promotion, but I don't believe in the way it was implemented. And the other thing that annoys me is he's signing all of these contracts just before the election,'' she added, referring to labor agreements with city workers. ''To me it doesn't set a good example.''
 Richard Gilliam, an administrator at a Bedford-Stuyvesant substance abuse center, who also said he would vote for Mr. Ferrer, expressed the ambivalence among many Democrats that Mr. Bloomberg has worked to tap. ''I'm not that unhappy with Bloomberg, but on the other hand I think that Freddy may have a better feel for the people,'' he said, echoing Mr. Ferrer's new campaign tagline, ''He's not like Mike. He's more like you.''
 ''Right about now, the way the country is, politically, economically,'' Mr. Gilliam continued, ''we need somebody in New York City with a feel for the city from the roots up.''
 But even politicians and consultants who say Mr. Ferrer is unlikely to win agree that the race is much closer than the polls indicate. And some of his supporters say they think they know why. 
 Alam Morshed, a scientist who lives in Jamaica, Queens, and was holding a sign for Mr. Ferrer in Corona on a drizzly Saturday, said that if Democrats, especially blacks, Asians and Hispanics, come out to vote next Tuesday, Mr. Ferrer should win on the strength of demographics alone.
 Within moments, Mr. Ferrer arrived and, as if to prove Mr. Morshed's point, several Hispanic residents quickly surrounded the candidate, greeting him warmly with cries of ''Democrata,'' or Democrat.
 Whether this alternate reality can trump the one reflected in the polls is a question that will remain unanswered -- until Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fernando Ferrer in his element campaigning yesterday at 149th Street and Third Avenue in the Bronx, where he was borough president. (Photo by Graham Morrison for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (71%); RETAILERS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (57%) Diane Cardwell; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Fernando Ferrer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



93 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: The Time Is Wrong for Tax Cuts

 BODY:
Before Hurricane Katrina, Congressional Republicans seemed unstoppable in their drive to cut taxes by an additional $70 billion in the next five years. Now some of the moderates are thinking twice. They fear the cost at a time when the country is already borrowing hundreds of billions of dollars -- most of it from foreigners -- to pay for things like war, hurricane recovery and flu vaccine. And they fear voters' disapproval if they cut taxes for wealthy taxpayers after gutting programs for the poor. (The tax cuts are scheduled to come up just after the current round of spending cuts.) 
 The moderates are right to be wary, especially when the tax-cut die-hards in Congress and the administration keep saying that more tax cuts are vital for continued economic growth after Katrina. That's not so.
In the short term, the economy expands when there's growing demand for all the things that money can buy. Tax cuts increase demand when consumers hold back because of, say, a recession. There's no need for that spur now, but if there were, the right tax cuts would put cash into the hands of people who would otherwise not have much to spend. Tax breaks that mainly benefit the wealthiest, like the special low rates for investment income that Congress is itching to pass, don't fit that description. 
 In the long run, the economy grows when money is invested in ways that increase the nation's capacity to make more goods and provide more services. The money for such investments comes from national savings, which are highly dependent on a healthy federal budget.
 Today's budget is decidedly unhealthy, and more tax cuts will make the big deficits only worse. That's bound to drive up interest rates, making it more expensive for businesses to borrow money. Economists say that will lead to less investment and less growth.
 Tax-cut zealots are also misleading Americans when they imply that they are offsetting reductions in revenue by slashing government spending. These lawmakers have largely spared pork-barrel spending and are instead cutting deeply into programs that foster better health, more education and a stronger infrastructure. Those are precisely the things that are crucial for widespread economic vitality.
 There are many things that could provoke an economic slowdown: the cooling of the housing boom, miserable wage growth, high energy prices and so on. Dropping the tax cuts is not one of them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); ANTIVIRALS (71%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (65%); VACCINES (57%); INFLUENZA (56%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%) Taxation; Editorials; United States Economy; Katrina (Storm); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health; Education and Schools; Taxation

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



94 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Detroit Gets Its October Sales Numbers and Winces 

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
HIGHER energy prices are bruising American automakers, worrying consumers and hobbling manufacturers, as several events made clear this week. But energy costs are not yet causing inflation to accelerate appreciably, the Federal Reserve concluded.

MOTOWN SLOWDOWN -- Automobile sales tumbled in October, with General Motors and Ford hit particularly hard. Sales at each of the two big American-owned carmakers fell more than 25 percent from the month a year ago. Worst hit were their most profitable models, pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles.
Sales of these so-called light trucks dropped 30 percent for G.M. and 31 percent for Ford as automakers scaled back the discounts that had helped to offset rising gasoline costs. Sales of the biggest S.U.V.'s, including the Ford Expedition and the Cadillac Escalade XLT, did worse, falling by more than half. So did sales of the Hummer H2, which is so big and inefficient that it is not even classified as a light truck. One pickup sold well last month: the Toyota Tacoma, which gets about 20 percent more miles a gallon than the Ford F-150. Tacoma sales rose 37 percent. 
 Over all, G.M. accounted for 22 percent of domestic automobile sales and Ford for 17 percent. Both are record lows. DaimlerChrysler had 16 percent and Toyota 15 percent.
 Based on worldwide sales, Toyota may overtake G.M. as the No. 1 automaker next year. Toyota is expected to make 9.2 million vehicles in the 2006 calendar year. G.M., which has said it plans to close factories early next year to reduce its costs, is forecast to produce about 9.1 million vehicles.

TAPPING THE BRAKE -- The Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates by one-quarter of a percentage point, to 4 percent. It was the 12th quarter-point increase in the last 16 months, and Fed officials announced no change to their longstanding policy of raising rates in small but steady steps.
 The Fed's move came as the Institute for Supply Management reported that the nation's manufacturing activity grew at a slower pace last month as companies wrestled with rising costs for energy and raw materials. The institute's prices index, which measures those prices, rose to 84 percent in October from 78 percent in September.
 The Commerce Department said factory orders fell 1.7 percent in September, though the Institute for Supply Management said the service sector rose more than expected. Employee productivity also jumped, at an annual rate of 4.3 percent. 
 Higher rates may damp consumer spending and encourage saving. Paul A. Volcker, a former Fed chairman, told a forum at Syracuse University that the United States was consuming and investing about 6 percent more than it was producing.
 The Fed is likely to keep raising rates at its next two meetings, in December and January, the last policy meeting before the current chairman, Alan Greenspan, is scheduled to retire.

PAIN RELIEF -- Vioxx did not cause an Idaho postal worker's heart attack in 2001, and the painkiller's maker, Merck, did not improperly market the drug, a state court jury in New Jersey decided. The verdict, in the second of thousands of product liability lawsuits facing Merck, came after a jury in Texas concluded that Merck was liable in the death of a man felled by a heart attack after taking Vioxx. That jury awarded his widow $253 million, a sum reduced to $26 million by a state law capping civil judgments. Merck has vowed to appeal that case.
 About 20 million Americans took Vioxx between 1999 and 2004. Merck stopped selling it after a clinical trial linked the drug to heart attacks and strokes in patients who used it for 18 months or longer. Company documents suggest Merck scientists were worried about Vioxx's potential heart dangers as early as 1997.
 Merck, which is based in Whitehouse Station, N.J., still faces 2,900 suits in New Jersey alone. In all, more than 6,400 lawsuits have been filed against it in state and federal courts, and tens of thousands more are expected.

AIMING TOO HIGH -- Dell, the world's largest PC vendor, said its recent decision to shift away from undercutting competitors' prices and focus instead on higher profit margins was not working. It warned that lower-than-expected revenue and earnings would result, at least in the third quarter.
 Gartner, the research firm, has forecast that global PC shipments will grow 12.7 percent this year, led by laptops and other ''mobile PC's.'' But revenue from PC sales will probably rise by less than 1 percent because consumers and businesses prefer less-expensive models.
 Dell's biggest rival, Hewlett-Packard, will announce its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings Nov. 17. Analysts expect it to report earnings of 46 cents a share, up from 41 cents a year ago.

PAYING THE PIPER -- A pair of companies agreed to pay hundreds of millions of dollars to settle claims that they had deceived investors or customers. Qwest, the primary local telephone provider in 14 states, said it would pay $400 million to settle lawsuits by shareholders who said the company used accounting tricks to inflate its revenue by $3 billion.
 The accounting firm KPMG, meanwhile, agreed to pay $195 million to settle the claims of hundreds of clients who bought certain tax shelters that the Internal Revenue Service later disallowed as abusive.
 The Securities and Exchange Commission is still seeking civil penalties and investor compensation from seven Qwest executives, including the former chief executive, Joseph P. Nacchio, and the former finance chief, Robert S. Woodruff.

MOST VIEWED -- Following are the most viewed articles from Oct. 29 through Nov. 4:
 1. A New Weapon for Wal-Mart: A War Room
 2. Goodbye, My Sweet Deduction
 3. Taking the Future for a Drive
 4. Google Wants to Dominate Madison Avenue, Too
 5. CNN Ousts Aaron Brown and Gives Slot to Anderson Cooper
 Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rising gas prices contributed to the declining sales of motor vehicles in October. Pickup trucks and sport utility vehicles were hit hardest. (Photo by Justin Lane/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); GASOLINE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); PLANT CLOSINGS (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%) 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (92%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (64%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Federal Reserve System; Institute for Supply Management; Commerce Department; Dell Computer Corp; Qwest Communications International Inc; Kpmg; Internal Revenue Service

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: Mark A Stein; Frederick Humeston

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



95 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Two Guys Talking About Stocks

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
BETWEEN them they are worth more than $90 billion, most of it in equities, so when Warren E. Buffett and Bill Gates talk about the stock market it is probably a good idea to listen.
 And what they have to say in the current issue of Fortune is bound to depress those long the market. In almost a throwaway question by Daniel Roth, the two richest men in America were asked: ''Seven years from now will the S.& P. 500 have returned more or less than 10 percent annually?''
Probably less, they both said. 
 ''You're not going to have the G.D.P. in nominal terms grow 5 percent a year and everybody makes 10 percent a year,'' Mr. Buffett said.
 Mr. Gates added: ''There are some clouds out there.'' 
 Any disappointment in their comments, Mr. Buffett added, is probably based on unrealistic expectations.
 ''In the late 1990's, people were looking in their rearview mirror, and they thought God had granted Americans the right to 15 percent a year. Now six or seven years later, people look in the rearview mirror and they see that conventional investments haven't produced remotely anything like that.''
 AT THE MOVIES -- Mr. Buffett and Mr. Gates have more than enough money to buy everyone in America a ticket to the movies. Their combined worth is more than the total worldwide grosses of the 100 most successful movies of all time.
 As part of the issue celebrating its centennial, Variety lists the 100 top-grossing movies of all time.
 Here are the top 10, in millions:



Title	Domestic 	 Overseas	Titanic (1997)	$601	 $1,250	Rings: Return of the King (2003)	 377	 742	Harry Potter: Sorcerer's Stone (2001)	 318	 656	Rings: Two Towers	 342	 585	Star Wars I: Phantom Menace (1999)	 431	 492	Jurassic Park (1993)	 357	 563	Shrek 2 (2004)	 437	 479	Harry Potter: Chamber of Secrets (2002) 	 262	 615	Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring (2001)	 315	 557	Finding Nemo (2003)	 340	 526	

There are a couple of things to note about this list. The grosses have not been adjusted for inflation -- which explains why ''The Mummy Returns'' (61st place) ranks higher than ''Gone With the Wind'' (76). And it really is amazing how limited the list is, with the Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings series accounting for 5 of the 10 top-grossing movies of all time.

SAVE THE OCTOPLEX -- You will notice that no movie from 2005 is among the top 10. Although there have been a few huge hits -- like ''Star Wars III: Revenge of the Sith'' and ''War of the Worlds'' -- 2005 over all looks as if it is not going to be a banner box-office year.
 Everybody has a theory: Rising ticket prices; the fact that more and more theaters are playing commercials; the shrinking gap between when a movie is shown in theaters and when it is available in other formats for home viewing. 
 And, there is always a more basic explanation: Most of the movies have not been very good. (Remember ''The Wedding Date''? ''Venom''? ''Stealth''?)
 However, in the current issue of the movie magazine Fade In, Allen B. Ury offers a great idea for increasing ticket sales: Let people pay one price to see as many movies as they like at a multiscreen complex in a given day, a Tuesday perhaps, when box-office receipts are typically low.
 ''Not only would overall revenues increase, but the longer people stay in the theater, the more concessions they are likely to buy.'' 
 If the one-day pass fails to take off, how about returning to the days of the double feature -- or simply making better flicks?

FINAL TAKE -- Negative-calorie soft drinks? It may happen. Men's Health reports in its November issue that at a recent medical conference, Elite FX presented a study that demonstrated its ''caffeinated Celsius diet beverage raised participants' metabolic rates by nearly 15 percent -- three times the boost from another popular diet drink.'' Would that offset a large buttered popcorn at the movies? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVENUES (87%); MEN (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%) 

ORGANIZATION: Fortune (Magazine); Variety (Newspaper); Ury, Allen B; Fade in (Magazine); Men's Health (Magazine); Elite FX

PERSON: BILL GATES (91%); WARREN BUFFETT (90%) Paul B Brown; Warren E Buffett; Bill (William H) Gates

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



96 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Free Trade Begins at Home

 BODY:
It was 11 years ago that Bill Clinton stood on a stage in Miami flanked by the leaders of 33 North and South American countries and proposed a hemispheric free trade agreement that would stretch from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego. The Free Trade Area of the Americas, to be completed by 2005, would be the largest in the world, encompassing 850 million people with $13 trillion in purchasing power, its backers said. 
 The summit meeting rang with optimistic calls about forging new ties throughout the region. The cold war was over, and with the single exception of Cuba, all of the region's countries were democracies and believers in open markets, and they were listening to the structural reform dictates of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
Fast forward to yesterday. President Bush was in Mar del Plata, Argentina, being heckled by protesters, not to mention taunts from the Venezuelan president, Hugo Chavez. Mr. Chavez, who continues to rant and rail against all things Yankee and often accuses the Bush administration of trying to assassinate him, has decided to use the summit meeting to try to drive a stake through the heart of the free trade agreement.
 That is hardly a tall order; the trade pact is not even on the barest of life-support these days. A decade of retrenching in the United States on trade, combined with economic and currency messes in several Latin American countries, particularly Argentina, have left governments with little appetite for opening markets. Many governments south of the border blame the model of free trade, open markets, privatization and fiscal austerity pushed by the United States for the vast increase in social inequality in the region during the past decade.
 It's not surprising, then, that the summit meeting leaders have chosen to focus on more general issues, like employment and democracy. ''Creating Jobs to Fight Poverty and Strengthen Democratic Governance'' is the mouthful that's the theme of this meeting. American and Canadian officials are still pushing the free trade message in the meeting's final communique, but it will clearly be something far more vague than the pact originally intended. 
 Still, a small step is better than no step. Perhaps it's enough that after the last few years of putting Iraq and the Middle East above all else, President Bush is finally paying a small bit of attention to the United States' own hemisphere.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) International Trade and World Market; Editorials

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); HUGO CHAVEZ (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); CANADA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (88%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%) Venezuela; Mar Del Plata (Argentina); Canada; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



97 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: The Candidates Go Multilingual

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:

Both candidates for mayor are using foreign-language ads to broaden their reach. An advertisement for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has a first in New York City politics: a mayor speaking Mandarin in a campaign commercial to make his case for re-election. It is one of several ads in which the mayor speaks a foreign language, including Urdu, Russian and Cantonese, to plead his case. This ad is running on Chinese-language cable-TV stations. A 30-second television ad for Fernando Ferrer, called ''Aramina,'' in which his wife addresses the audience, is among several Spanish-language ads currently being broadcast. 


PRODUCER -- Squier Knapp Dunn

ON THE SCREEN -- The commercial is a montage of Mayor Bloomberg walking on the street with residents, many of them Asian-Americans, the police putting a handcuffed man into a car, a classroom with children, storeowners on a street, a bulldozer at a construction site. At the end, the mayor says a phrase in Mandarin while standing on a street.

THE SCRIPT -- The narrator says, also in Mandarin, ''Mayor Bloomberg has improved New York City and made it more prosperous. He has successfully taken down gangs and gun violence. The city's crime rate is at a 40-year-low. The city's security is under our control. Greater responsibility and new standards have improved our schools. He has created 62,000 new jobs, which has helped small businesses. Mayor Bloomberg, a mayor for all New Yorkers.'' Mr. Bloomberg then adds, in Mandarin, ''Greater cooperation will bring greater success.''

ACCURACY -- Generally, the ad sticks to the themes of his campaign, and the Bloomberg administration has indeed continued to build on the success of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in reducing crime. The mayor has also imposed new standards on the schools, though his record on the small-business front has come under criticism for the impact of ticket blitzes, and the Ferrer campaign has complained about high minority unemployment.

SCORECARD -- Mayor Bloomberg's Mandarin is difficult to understand, but he must be given credit for trying to speak a language that many English speakers find hard to grasp. For that, he may score points among Asian-Americans, who often feel sidelined by municipal politics, although the mayor has visited Chinatown many times. This commercial, nearly identical to one aimed at Cantonese-speaking and Korean-American voters, addresses immigrants' concerns about crime, education and small businesses. While Mr. Bloomberg is speaking in Mandarin, the commercial flashes the text of his remarks to ensure that his message gets through. JENNIFER 8. LEE

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (91%); MULTILINGUALISM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); CRIME RATES (88%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); JOB CREATION (64%) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) Diane Cardwell; Fernando Ferrer; Aramina Ferrer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2005



98 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 5, 2005
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Changing Course (Perhaps) on Housing

 BODY:
Public outrage over President Bush's mishandling of the Katrina disaster has forced the administration to back away -- if only temporarily -- from a deeply wrongheaded policy on low-income housing. In New Orleans this week, Housing and Urban Development Secretary Alphonso Jackson announced with great fanfare that the government would tear down some of the most unlivable high-density public housing in the country and replace it with model lower-density housing, which will probably serve mixed-income residents. 
 That sounds a lot like Hope VI, a valuable public housing program, created in the 1990's, that the Bush administration has attacked relentlessly. It has tried to eliminate the program's budget for three straight years. If the recent announcement represents a policy shift and not just a public relations tactic, the change would be welcome.
 Hope VI has furnished desperately needed money for communities that have seen their housing blighted by the disastrous high-rise public projects that the nation mistakenly embraced in the 1940's and 50's. By concentrating poverty -- often in places without jobs or decent schools -- these developments eventually killed entire neighborhoods and socially isolated the families who lived in them.
 Congress has thus far prevented the Bush administration from killing Hope VI, but the program has been preserved at a reduced financing level that falls far short of the national need. Perhaps Mr. Bush will now realize that there is a good deal more work to be done -- all over the country -- before the program runs its course. Meanwhile, in New Orleans, community leaders will need to make sure that some portion of the planned new housing is actually affordable for the poor people who will be displaced. Those who won't be allowed to move back should get vouchers for decent housing elsewhere. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BUDGETS (72%); CITIES (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ALPHONSO JACKSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



99 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 2767 words

HEADLINE: How Thursday Became the New Friday

BYLINE: By Katie Hafner. 
Katie Hafner, a reporter for The Times, is co-author of ''Where Wizards Stay Up Late: The Origins of the Internet.'' Mark Schreiner contributed reporting from Durham, N.C.

 BODY:
CONSIDER the cadences of daily life that result from something as prosaic as a course schedule. This boring bit of housekeeping establishes a campus's circadian rhythms, its bursts of activity and its lulls. It is the master calendar that dictates when plazas fill and when they empty.
 And consider Friday. Most colleges and universities offer fewer classes on Friday, and while freshmen and sophomores might have to take required classes, juniors and seniors can easily schedule their way around the day.
''We have a lot of students who avoid Friday classes like the plague,'' says Dan L. King, general secretary of the American Association of University Administrators and vice president for academic affairs at Rhode Island College. Although he has seen no studies on the point, he considers it safe to say that Friday classes are ''virtually disappearing.''
 While there are still hundreds of Friday classes, particularly at large public universities, significantly fewer meet on Friday than on a campus's busiest day: about 40 percent fewer at Indiana University Bloomington and 50 percent at Arizona State University and the University of California, Irvine. At California State University, Chico, 890 classes are held on Fridays compared to more than 2,500 on Tuesdays. 
 Many students are so accustomed to a four-day week they cannot imagine life any other way. The weekend begins on Thursday night -- known as ''thirstday'' in some circles at the University of Arizona and Arizona State. At Duke, the Malt Liquor Thursday party is a decade-old tradition. Stanford seniors gather for Pub Night at a different bar every Thursday. 
 Friday itself is not necessarily about slacking off: about 50 percent of undergraduates hold part-time jobs, according to the National Center for Education Statistics, and many use Friday for work, internships or community service. They may even hit the library on Sunday. 
 But for many Friday is a day in recovery, spent sleeping past noon. 
 Charles B. Reed, chancellor of the 23-campus California State University system, explains the pattern as he sees it: ''Student don't think they have to study or prep, then it's off to party on Thursday night, then sleep it off on Friday, then do it again Friday night, go to the game Saturday and do it again Saturday night. 
 ''That is not a healthy atmosphere.''
 Although the growing trend of class-free Fridays is a frequent topic of conversation among university administrators, many say that to enforce change would require too drastic a shift. Meddle with a campus's schedule, they say, and you are meddling with its basic metabolism.
 Nonetheless, some campuses have sought to reclaim Friday. Chico State has increased its Friday classes by 6 percent over the last two years, and more are planned for the Cal State system. Clark University in Worcester, Mass., has more than doubled its Friday classes. Last fall, Duke shook the campus culture with a rethinking of its schedule: administrators not only shored up Friday but increased early-morning classes nearly tenfold. 
 Colleges that are pushing back primarily want to free up the midweek crunch of classes. ''There are literally billions of dollars in facilities that sit empty for too many hours of the week,'' says Dr. Reed. But they also hope to nibble at more substantive issues: to stem Thursday night drinking and to reassert that academics are the raison d'etre of a university. 
 ''It's silly to run a university that has four days of classes and have an entire campus full of people who have what those of us who work for a living would call a long weekend,'' says Sandra Hurd, associate provost at Syracuse University. After changing its schedule last year, Syracuse was able to add 76 new courses to its curriculum, including a seminar in forensic science and a course titled ''Intergroup Dialogue on Race and Ethnicity.''
 The modern timetable has emerged gradually. Some educators trace its beginnings to the oil embargo of 1973, when universities compressed schedules to save energy in classrooms. Students came to like the arrangement, and faculty grew complicit, avoiding Fridays when requesting days for their classes. 
 ''It went like this: faculty need Fridays free to do research, have committee meetings, etc.,'' says John N. Gardner, executive director of the Policy Center on the First Year of College in Brevard, N.C. ''And many administrations did not dare remove what had become another entitlement for the faculty.'' 
 And so college life has come a long way from the days when classes routinely met on Saturday mornings. (Or consider the 15th century, when universities were patterned after monastic life and classes began at 6 a.m.) When students matriculated, it was with the understanding that their time was not their own. 
 But over more recent decades the college campus developed a time zone of its own: students are wide awake at 2 a.m., and lunchtime is for eating breakfast. (Residence halls at the California Institute of Technology don't even bother to serve anything until 9:30 a.m.) Now, as colleges jockey for market share, with students the picky customers, the three-day weekend is an expected perk, like high-speed Internet access. Friday has become the ''collegiate day of rest,'' as Aaron Abramowitz, a 21-year-old senior at the University of California, Berkeley, calls it.
 Barry L. Jackson, director of the Drug, Alcohol and Wellness Network at Bloomsburg University in Pennsylvania, believes that to assume young people entering college are ready for a lack of structure is a mistake. Take a high school student who is expected to be in class every morning at 7:50, he says, and then send that same 18-year-old to college, step back and see what happens.
 ''You'd be amazed at the maneuvering these students go through to schedule themselves so they don't have to go to early-morning classes,'' he says. ''A lack of structure assumes these young people are internally self-disciplined, ready to get up at the same time every day and do their work, and what we're finding is that's not true.''
 JASON JANET, an adjunct professor at the Pratt School of Engineering at Duke, teaches introductory robotics at 8:30 a.m. every Wednesday and Friday. The upper-division course is required for some engineering majors. One recent Friday, attendance was higher than usual but still not perfect: 39 of the 46 students showed up. 
 Dr. Janet had some tricks: he had surprised them the previous Friday -- the day before a fall break -- with a pop quiz. He also sets assignment deadlines on Fridays. This particular day, a status report on the students' robotics projects was due and they picked up take-home exams.
 Amit Joshipura, a 21-year-old senior, listened to Dr. Janet's lecture on the ''Denavit-Hartenberg transformation coordinate assignment system'' with the rheumy eyes and rumpled hair that suggest lack of sleep. He wore a T-shirt emblazoned with ''Party Pandas October 13, 2005,'' a party favor from a sorority bash the night before. The Alpha Omicron Pi ''crush'' party, held at a club in Durham, N.C., had begun at about 11 p.m. and wrapped up after 2 a.m. Mr. Joshipura got to his room at 2:30, but before going to sleep he worked on his project status report for Dr. Janet until 4:30 a.m. Less than four hours later, he woke up in time for the 10-minute walk to Dr. Janet's lecture hall. At 8:30 a.m., he turned in his assignment and took his seat.
 One classmate, David Rodriguez, 21, explained later that rather than eliminating Thursday night partying or cutting Friday classes, Duke students are intent on doing it all. The campus ethic: work hard, play hard. 
 But, he added: ''I watch myself. I don't get as wasted as I would otherwise.'' 
 Duke administrators had set out two years ago to insert more Fridays and mornings in the academic calendar. The prime instruction time had narrowed to between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. in the middle of the week. Classroom capacity was strained, yet on Friday many classrooms sat empty. ''That was an untenable position,'' says Bruce Cunningham, the registrar. ''We couldn't just keep building new classrooms.'' 
 Another concern was the effect the compressed schedule seemed to be having on choice in the curriculum. ''If you have too many classes overlapping and you get too bunched into a relatively narrow range of time periods, you're really depriving students of choice, and that's really the substantive issue,'' says Peter Lange, provost at Duke.
 After months of committee meetings -- and strong resistance from faculty and students -- the change began last fall. With a few exceptions, departments are now allowed to schedule only half their classes in prime time, leading to a 20 percent increase in Friday offerings. And where there were once 14 classes before 9 a.m. there are now 138, a shift that ignores students' biorhythms, the campus newspaper complained. Many popular or required classes also now meet Wednesday and Friday, leaving students with little alternative but to sign up.
 ''I'm not sure it's a solution to Thursday night drinking problems, although I'm sure it has some effect,'' Dr. Lange says. Duke has been working for several years to crack down on drinking on campus. Now students refer to the Old Duke, where three-day fraternity keggers on the quads were common, and the New Duke, where serving alcohol is regulated and the campus pub is no more. 
 Mostly the parties have moved off campus. Thomas Adelman, a 20-year-old sophomore, is the social chairman responsible for one surviving event, Malt Liquor Thursdays, a celebration of the brew open to the entire university. Wayne Manor, a selective on-campus housing group with a community service emphasis, has played host to M.L.T. since 1994. This semester, Mr. Adelman has cultural anthropology and Italian classes on Fridays. He says he never cuts. ''My parents don't pay $40,000 a year for me to skip class,'' he says. ''If they thought that I did cut classes frequently they probably wouldn't be paying that bill.''
 Duke students, he insists, have a five-day workweek. Mr. Adelman turns his mind back to academics on Sunday: ''Right after the games are over, I'm doing homework.''
 Like Duke, Syracuse had the bulk of its classes bunched up between 10 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. in the middle of the week. By moving courses to Friday, it opened up classroom space throughout the rest of the week. Syracuse now has nearly 200 more classes on Friday than it did two years ago. ''We think we're changing the whole academic culture,'' says Deborah Freund, vice chancellor and provost at Syracuse. ''If you want a campus to be a serious academic environment that provokes free and open inquiry, you don't want to except one day from that inquiry.''
 Getting students to show up is another matter. It is not unusual for college class attendance to languish at about 60 percent. Faculty members at Syracuse are telling administrators that students are coming on Fridays. At Duke, Judith Ruderman, vice provost for academic and administrative services, observes, ''I see lots of students around campus as of 8 a.m. or so, which I never saw before.''
 Some educators point out that if a course engages students, they will take it no matter when it occurs. ''There's a very popular drawing class that meets 3 to 5 Friday afternoon, and it's always oversubscribed,'' says Alexander M. Thompson III, dean of studies at Vassar. 
 Others argue that a change of schedule will not change behavior. ''It's never the schedule that gets the student to come or not come to class,'' says Walter Yuen, a professor of mechanical engineering and chairman of the faculty academic senate at the University of California, Santa Barbara, where only 370 of 3,500 classes take place on Friday. ''The serious student is going to study no matter when you schedule an exam, even if it's on Christmas, and the student who wants to party will do that.'' 
 APPROACH the Chico State campus from one direction and you pass Stormy's Off-Broadway Bar & Grill, Madison Bear Garden and the Normal Street Bar. Approach it from another direction and you pass an enclave of fraternity and sorority houses. You also pass Riley's, a favorite drinking spot at Chico State, whose students are known for their ability to party. 
 Alexa Freese, 22, an energetic senior majoring in graphic design, has spent four years in command of her own time. She works eight hours a week waiting tables at Riley's to earn pocket money and has a graphic design internship on campus 10 hours a week. Thursdays are usually ''early'' nights for Ms. Freese: she gets home by 1 a.m. Parties on Friday and Saturday can go until 3 or 4 a.m. She guards her free Fridays jealously, putting in three hours of her internship but otherwise sleeping in and lunching with sorority sisters. She studies on evenings and Sundays, for a dozen hours a week, she says. Her grade point average is a respectable 3.5.
 Losing Fridays to classes would not sit well with Ms. Freese. ''You'd lose a lot of that freedom kids love about college,'' she says. ''It would make it more like high school.''
 Even earnest overachievers at the University of California, Berkeley, demand their down day.
 Late on a recent Thursday afternoon, the Free Speech Movement Cafe on campus was filled with students wrapping up their classes for the week. James Chang, a 19-year-old senior, killed a little time in the cafe before his last class of the week. In the three years that he has attended Berkeley, he has been able to sleep until 1 p.m. most days and had Friday classes only two semesters. He often heads out of town Friday afternoon with the debate team and doesn't return until Sunday, occasionally even Monday. He estimates that he studies only three to four hours a week, depending on exams and assignments.
 But Mr. Chang could hardly be called a slouch. He plans to graduate in December with a degree in political science and a 3.5 G.P.A. 
 Cathy Koshland, vice provost for academic planning and facilities at Berkeley, would welcome more classes on Friday (when 663 meet, compared with 1,184 on Tuesday), if only to ease the burden on classroom space. But faculty members at Berkeley have, by and large, come to expect a free day on Friday, she says. 
 As for the students, the foreshortened week accommodates the juggling Dr. Koshland sees them do -- working at jobs and internships and practicing with sports teams. But she acknowledges that Thursday night drinking remains an issue. 
 A few blocks down Telegraph Avenue from the Free Speech Movement Cafe, Aaron Abramowitz's weekend has begun: he sits at the outdoor bar at Raleigh's and drinks a pint of beer, dividing his attention between friends and the football game on the television above the bar. Sometimes he flies home to Los Angeles on Wednesday night for an extra long weekend, missing ''a bunch'' of Thursday classes. Yet he, too, maintains a G.P.A. of ''3.5 and change'' in his major, philosophy. Mr. Abramowitz estimates he spends 15 hours a week in classes and another 15 studying.
 George D. Kuh has considered this phenomenon as director of the National Survey of Student Engagement, which attempts to quantify what students put into the postsecondary experience. According to the report, the faculty says a full-time student needs to spend 25 hours preparing for class. ''Students study only 13 hours per week on average, and they're still getting good grades,'' says Dr. Kuh, also a professor of higher education at Indiana University. How to account for the discrepancy? Dr. Kuh says grade inflation might play a role or the courses could lack rigor. 
 Mr. Abramowitz spends 25 hours a week partying and watching television. He often doesn't get to sleep until 3 a.m., well after the last bowling alleys, movie theaters and bars have shut for the night. On Fridays and after working a night shift waiting tables, he wakes up in the middle of the afternoon. ''My schedule,'' he concedes, ''is pushing toward a nocturnal state of existence.'' 
 He is all too aware of the big scary workaday world that will start at the cruel hour of 9 a.m. and run five days. ''My sleep schedule is just going to have to change entirely,'' he says. ''I know this.''
 A promising sign: next semester, Mr. Abramowitz will begin the transition out of the cocoon that is college. Two courses he wants to take -- on Descartes and on the philosophy of mathematics -- will meet on Friday. 
 ''I weighed the pros and cons of taking better classes or having a more party-centered schedule,'' he says. ''The classes won out.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: STUDENTS WITH GLASSES -- Seniors at Stanford gather for Pub Night at a different meeting place every Thursday, the unofficial start of the weekend. (Photo by Randi Lynn Beach for The New York Times)(pg. 23)
(Photo by Sara D. Davis for The New York Times)(pg. 22)
THURSDAY, 10:28 p.m.
FRIDAY, 12:48 p.m.
FRIDAY, 1:18 p.m.
T.G.I.T. -- James Chang, a senior at the University of California, Berkeley, has had Friday classes only twice. Clockwise, from above, the start of his weekend
a typical Friday rise and shine
easing into his day with some laptop time and TV watching. (Photographs by Randi Lynn Beach for The New York Times [Berkeley])
FRIDAY, 8:52 a.m.
FRIDAY, 10:33 a.m.
 THE NEW WORLD -- Last fall Duke shook the campus culture by scheduling more classes early in the morning and on Fridays. Terry Arnold, above, is adjusting to his 8:30 a.m. class in robotics. Elizabeth Metzler, right, has an 8:45 a.m. Spanish class and then puts her Friday to good use. (Photographs by Sara D. Davis for The New York Times [Duke])(pg. 24, pg. 25)Chart: ''The Student's Life''Graph tracks number of hours per week college seniors spend:Studying and preparing for classWorking for payActivities outside of classRelaxing and socializing(Source by Center for Postsecondary Research, Indiana University, Bloomington)(pg. 25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); SLEEP (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); TRENDS (68%); STATISTICS (67%) 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (91%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (82%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (54%) Duke University

PERSON: Katie Hafner

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2005



100 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Home for the Holidays

BYLINE: By Nancy Hass. 
Nancy Hass is a frequent contributor to The Times.

 BODY:
THE poet T.S. Eliot made a good case for April as the cruelest month, but parents of college freshmen might nominate November. For them, Thanksgiving break can mean a cataclysmic clash of memory and desires. 
 ''It's the first time you've seen your kids since they left, and you have all this emotion pent up,'' says Diane Barker, who is still reeling from last year's holiday, when her daughter, Caroline, came home from M.I.T. for the first time. ''You've spent the time they've been gone thinking of all the things you're going to do, all the rituals you're going to enjoy to prove to yourself that everything is the same. But it winds up exploding in your face.''
Ms. Barker, an administrative assistant who lives in Farmingdale, N.Y., figured she and Caroline would have a leisurely dinner with her parents, then spend the next day as they always had: checking out the Christmas windows on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, doing their first bit of holiday shopping and seeing the Rockettes at Radio City Music Hall. ''We're the people who take a horse-and-carriage ride through the park, all that corny stuff,'' she says. 
 But Caroline had other ideas. She wanted to see friends, stay out late and sleep till noon. She agreed to see the Rockettes -- her mom already had the tickets -- but only if they made it a quick round trip. 
 ''She was busy with her own dramas,'' says Ms. Barker, who raised her daughter alone. ''It suddenly dawned on me that they didn't revolve around me and revisiting her childhood. I wasn't prepared for that.''
 College administrators and counselors say that variations on Ms. Barker's Thanksgiving letdown are played out nationwide every November. That first Thanksgiving break can be one of the most difficult times in the lives of many students and their parents. 
 ''People think that leaving home to go off to school is the big trauma, but the majority of kids do fairly well adjusting to college by the end of the first month, and their parents start to adjust, too,'' says Laura Kastner, a therapist who is co-author of ''The Launching Years: Strategies for Parenting From Senior Year to College Life.'' ''It's when that break rolls around that reality sets in, that nothing will ever be the same. It's very confrontational, and for a lot of people it's terribly disorienting.''
 At the core of the conflict are often-unspoken expectations on both sides. Parents are still aching over their child's departure as well as the sense that the nurturing stage of their lives is over. To allay that sadness, they focus on Thanksgiving's reassuring rituals -- the elaborate meal, the hang-out time, the late-night leftover pig-out. But students, who have spent the past three months exploring new intellectual and social terrain and reveling in the freedom of dorm life, often find it impossible to step back into their old roles.
 ''We pretty much spent the whole four days snarling at each other,'' says Sarah Fields of Indianapolis, recalling the tension of being home from Purdue last Thanksgiving. ''Anything I wanted to do -- see friends, sleep, just chill out -- they got this really disappointed look. They wanted to trot me around like a show dog. I know they're proud of me, but really, I wasn't into it. I just wanted to veg out.'' 
 Some conflicts are easily anticipated. Siobhan Counihan of Monroe, N.Y., got her nose pierced as soon as she got to the State University of New York campus in Buffalo last September, and on Halloween pierced her tragus, the cartilage at the front of her ear. ''Before Thanksgiving, I basically received an e-mail from my stepfather demanding that I remove the piercing and telling me to 'rest assured that any of the turmoil and stress this family experiences this holiday will be all your fault,''' she recalls. ''That pretty much set the tone for a horrible experience.''
 Therapists and college counselors say that such conflicts can ultimately prove healthy, but Ms. Kastner says that parents must take the lead: ''It's up to them to set the tone. It's often they who are clinging to the past, which causes a lot of the problem. Their intentions are good, but they need to recognize that their kids have changed profoundly and will continue to do so.''
 Parents tend to forget that three months is an eternity to an 18-year-old, enough time to start becoming a different person. Coming home is a way to try out that new persona. ''Students want people to see the changes, for good or bad,'' says Marjorie Savage, director of the Parent Program at the University of Minnesota and author of ''You're on Your Own (but I'm Here if You Need Me): Mentoring Your Child During the College Years.'' 
 Ms. Kastner says, ''They have to create conflict to differentiate, to drive you apart. ''They announce that they've decided not simply to become an economist, but to become a Marxist economist. Or they're bisexual.'' 
 The impact of these changes is exacerbated by the shortness of the break; a long weekend is rarely enough time for parents to adjust to a pierced nose. Adding to the stress is the fact that most students will have exams when they return. 
 But what seems to rankle parents most is that their children want to spend little of their break time reconnecting with mom and dad. ''She never wanted to see us. Never,'' says Lisa Ryan, a marital therapist from Weston, Conn., whose 19-year-old daughter, Amanda Ziobro, is now a sophomore at George Washington University in Washington. ''It hurts your feelings.''
 Experts say it is important for parents to understand that seeing friends is more than just an excuse to party; it's a crucial step in the creation of identity. ''They discover that some friends must be left behind because they aren't growing and changing,'' says Dale Atkins, a New York City psychotherapist who specializes in family relationships. ''They need to have left and come back to see those people clearly. It can be very painful, and parents can help by giving them plenty of space to do that work.''
 But even the most understanding parents are challenged by one change: their children have become nocturnal creatures. 
 ''The average time that students go to sleep on the weekends is 3 a.m.,'' says Ms. Kastner. ''Their average waking time is noon. And there are their parents, standing over them at 9 a.m. the morning after Thanksgiving, telling them that they're missing the best part of the day.''
 Curfew is a major source of conflict, too. ''It's common for parents to give what I call the 'When You're Under My Roof' speech and insist on enforcing the same curfew that existed when the kid was in high school, which almost always results in a blowup,'' Ms. Kastner says. 
 Ms. Ryan concedes that she assumed her old midnight curfew would stand during the Thanksgiving break. ''I was horrified when on Wednesday night at 11, right after my daughter got in from Washington, she starting getting ready to go out. I said, 'How are you going to be able to get back in half an hour?' Then I realized she had no intention of coming back by midnight.'' 
 Midway through her lost Thanksgiving weekend, just after the rushed trip to see the Rockettes, Diane Barker had a revelation, one that she has contemplated with a degree of melancholy over the past year. ''It's pretty simple,'' she says. ''I realized I had to suck it up.''

Extreme Makeover, Home Edition
 ACCORDING to college counselors and family therapists, there are ways to make Thanksgiving break less excruciating.

EXPLORE EXPECTATIONS BEFOREHAND In mid-November, ask about your child's plans, specifically how much time will be spent with family. Discuss a curfew.

KEEP EXPECTATIONS LOW It's reasonable to expect your child to have Thanksgiving dinner with family, but you're in uncharted waters after that.

ASK ABOUT CHANGES Emerging adults are bound to alter their appearance and habits, and you don't want to learn your daughter is a vegetarian as you slice the turkey. And make sure to reciprocate. If you've turned your son's bedroom into a workout room, this is the time to warn him.

BE INTERESTED Try to seem engaged in the changes. When she returns with a pierced navel or he declares he's a Buddhist, ask sincere, unbiased questions instead of making snide comments.

DON'T TALK ABOUT HIM When your child is sitting right there, don't use the third person. Don't say to your guests, ''Did you know she's taking two courses in human sexuality?'' or push him to regale friends and relatives with college stories.

CREATE NEW RITUALS They should acknowledge your child's new maturity and independence. This is a new time in both your lives. NANCY HASS


GRAPHIC: Photo (Illustration by Viktor Koen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THANKSGIVING (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); PARENTING (73%) 

PERSON: Nancy Hass

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2005



101 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 1; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: If at First You Don't Succeed Enough

BYLINE: By Abigail Sullivan Moore. 
Abigail Sullivan Moore contributes to the Connecticut section of The Times.

 BODY:
THIS fall at Avon Old Farms, a prestigious boys' prep school in Connecticut, 16 percent of the freshmen are transfer students doing the year for the second time. They include three straight-A students, says Brendon Welker, its director of admissions. 
 Repeating the year -- in some circles known as a ''refresh'' or ''resoph,'' depending on the grade -- has become an increasingly accepted practice at private schools in the Northeast, especially boarding schools. At St. Paul's School in New Hampshire, 22 percent of the freshman class have transferred in to repeat the year, as have 6 percent of sophomores. At Kent School, also in Connecticut, 11 percent of juniors are doing the same.
 Traditionally, a small percentage of students have repeated a grade to allow them time to mature or to fill in subject gaps. Boys have done it much more than girls, often at the school's bidding. Some students have taken an extra year just to improve in sports. But many of today's repeaters are motivated by the intense competition for admission to elite colleges. They want to bolster already good academic transcripts with better grades, a richer roster of Advanced Placement courses and the extracurricular activities that colleges like to see, school officials say. 
 To make their offspring look even more appealing, some parents are not sending transcripts from that ''first'' ninth grade to colleges, an omission that raises ethical issues. Their hope is that admissions officers won't see the stutter, says Marcia Rubinstien, an educational consultant in West Hartford, Conn., who advocates honesty.
 ''Five or 10 years ago, students didn't repeat unless there was something broke that needed to be fixed, a presiding academic deficit, an illness or some disturbance in the family pattern,'' says Gregg Maloberti, dean of admissions at the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey. In 2001, only a single student out of 150 incoming freshmen there was repeating the year; last fall 15 did it. This year, the school admitted 11 freshman repeaters. 
 Mike Hirschfeld, admissions director at St. Paul's, has seen a noticeable increase. ''Parents want their kids to be successful, and if they believe repeating will enhance their chances, they will absolutely consider it,'' he says. In the past five years, a third of the graduates of St. Paul's received at least one offer from an Ivy League school. 
 Of course, other factors influence the decision, like fears that public high schools aren't giving their children the best education. Families also want to make sure their children are mature enough to take advantage of the advanced curriculum at these private schools, and to succeed when the bar is so high. 
 The practice leaves some college gatekeepers in an ethical quandary. While supporting the idea of giving students time to do better, administrators fret about the equity of a strategy available only to the ambitious affluent, those who can pay $25,000 to $35,000 a year.
 ''The ones who can do this are only the ones who can afford to do this,'' says Jim Bock, dean of admissions and financial aid at Swarthmore College. ''Where does that leave the rest of the people?'' 
 For moderate-income families seeking a similar advantage, and those in public schools, the answer is probably nowhere. 
 At New Trier, a rigorous public high school on Chicago's affluent North Shore, repeating a grade to shore up a solid transcript is out of the question. ''The answer is unequivocally no, never has happened and I would not support it,'' says Hank Bangser, the superintendent. 
 Some private schools aren't going along either. At Thayer Academy in Braintree, Mass., officials say they were amazed recently when a handful of its current upper-class students asked to repeat. Thayer refused, fearful of seeding the practice.
 School officials and consultants who help place children in top private schools know it's a hot topic among parents. ''There's a big ripple effect,'' says Andrew Bogardus, director of admissions for Berkshire School in Sheffield, Mass. ''Families are talking about their plan of attack for education, and college admissions is driving it. If someone has a successful plan, they'll talk about it.'' 
 One Westchester County mother credits her daughter with the idea of repeating sophomore year at a New England boarding school. Then a B student in a competitive public high school, she was feeling pressured about college admissions and knew another repeater. The parents talked to families who had found success with the strategy. 
 ''The parents say things like, 'This was the best thing that I did,''' says the mother, who did not want to be identified for fear of hurting her daughter's reputation. ''She could be a B-plus student,'' she says, adding that an extra year of smaller classes and developing study skills would better prepare her for college, although probably not the Ivy League. ''Why rush?'' Meanwhile, the daughter feels a ''wonderful reprieve,'' she says. ''It's a gift we gave her.'' 
 Many people outside the world of private schools still view repeating a grade as something to hide. William M. Shain, dean of undergraduate admissions at Vanderbilt University, worries about the effect on an adolescent's self-esteem. He says it suggests ''you're not good enough yet -- you should go back in the oven.'' 
 But independent school administrators and students insist it carries no stigma within their ranks. 
 ''People have a certain stereotype about repeating a year -- they think your grades aren't good enough,'' says Peter Hafner, who transferred from a private school in Bethesda, Md., to the Taft School in Connecticut, where he repeated his junior year to be more competitive in academics and athletics. 
 Yet at Taft, ''I didn't feel funny,'' he says. ''It was a rare occasion when people didn't understand the dynamics.'' Once considered a bit shy, Mr. Hafner blossomed with a clean slate. He took Advanced Placement calculus, history, economics and other honors classes. He served on student government and played hockey so well that Harvard recruited him. 
 Mr. Hirschfeld of St. Paul's confirms Mr. Hafner's perception. Instead of taking a negative view, he says, his students have the attitude, '''Wow! I can take a second year of calculus.''' 
 Those who repeat sophomore or junior year in a different school are easy for college admissions officials to spot: students need to show records for freshman through senior year, so the officials get transcripts from both schools. Those who repeat freshman year, though, may not send transcripts from the first school. 
 ''Families aren't always comfortable with disclosing an unusual situation,'' Ms. Rubinstien says. ''They are going to want to sterilize that application.''
 Steve Thomas, admissions director at Colby College, believes he wouldn't be fooled. ''You can't effectively erase a year to a sharp reader and if you do, the flags go up,'' he says. Any hint of deception is bad news for an applicant. Acknowledging that year, though, brings added scrutiny from admissions officers.
 Considering prep school tuition, some college administrators see repeating as an expensive investment with an uncertain return. Overloading transcripts with Advanced Placement courses may give an applicant an overly groomed feel, unwittingly undermining the student's chances at colleges that pride themselves on admitting bright, risk-taking individuals. 
 Says Dick Steele, interim dean of admissions for Bowdoin College, ''I sure would expect a pretty darn good year with that chance.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ST. PAUL'S (CONCORD, N.H.) 22% of the freshman class is repeating the year. (Photo by Jon Gilbert Fox for The New York Times)
KENT SCHOOL (KENT, CONN.) 11% of the junior class is repeating the year. (Photo by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)(pg. 20)
 AVON OLD FARMS (AVON, CONN.) 16% of the freshman class is repeating the year. (Photo by Timothy Stay/Avon Old Farms School)(pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); ETHICS (86%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%) 

ORGANIZATION: Avon Old Farms (Conn); St Paul's School (Concord, Nh)

PERSON: Abigail Sullivan Moore

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (72%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%) Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2005



102 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 3; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 2968 words

HEADLINE: Where Career Changers Go: Five Top Choices

BYLINE: By Cecilia Capuzzi Simon. 
Cecilia Capuzzi Simon, a former managing editor of Teacher Magazine, writes from Washington, D.C.

 BODY:
RESTLESSNESS, corporate burnout, the desire for autonomy, the need for flexibility: these are some of the motives driving adults toward a career change. And thanks to longer life spans and shifting cultural norms, midcareer transitions are increasingly common. Education is not only responding to the trend, it's at the forefront. 
 Most people making a career change require training; the amount and type depend on the field. The Occupational Outlook Handbook, published by the Department of Labor, describes expected earnings, job prospects and education required for each profession.
Among a career changer's options are certificate programs, which generally consist of five or six courses. Certificates carry more or less weight in different professions. Some involve rigorous study and bear university credit, while others do nothing more than teach a few skills and indicate to a potential employer that you've taken an interest in the field. The key is that it come from a reputable institution that provides real training. 
 Associate degrees, which usually require two years of study, provide a broad base in general education as well as a specific concentration. They are popular among people without a bachelor's degree but also among career changers. For example, someone with a master's in business administration might go on to teach media business after getting an associate degree in communication. For those making a big change -- an accountant, say, who wants to be an investment banker -- a master's degree lets you learn about a field from the bottom up while offering networking possibilities. 
 Here are five of the most popular fields for people making a change, according to career consultants and those who track employment trends. The list reflects the cultural zeitgeist -- a sense of altruism, a craving for workplace freedom -- as well as opportunities in the marketplace. But use it cautiously.
 When looking for an ''elegant fit'' between oneself and one's professional pursuits, says Nick Lore, president of the Rockport Institute, an executive career counseling company in Rockville, Md., consider personal passions, talents, life goals and whether the career makes sense for you. Can you handle the considerable workload demanded for a master's degree, or just juggle a few skill-building courses? Are you willing to take a pay cut? Be low man on the totem pole?
 Says Helen Harkness, author of ''Don't Stop the Career Clock'': ''Look inward first, and then look outward to see if there is a marketplace fit.''

1. NOT-FOR-PROFITS
 Employment in not-for-profit entities like charitable organizations and foundations has grown by more than 30 percent in the last decade, according to the Independent Sector in Washington, an industry coalition. Steve Pogorzelski, a group president of the online job search company Monster Worldwide, says many midcareer changers who choose not-for-profit work are burned out by the business world yet still game for professional challenge, despite salaries that are 20 to 50 percent lower than in business or government. ''Midcareer changes are not usually about money,'' he says. ''American workers want to be able to manage their own careers.''
 Some people looking to not-for-profit work have done well in previous careers and want to ''give back.'' But they may harbor idealistic notions about the work, says Mark Green, vice president of the Grantsmanship Center of Los Angeles, which trains grant writers and fund-raisers. Many, believing they can turn personal passions into careers, don't understand the business acumen required to gain entry or succeed in not-for-profits. ''No money, no mission'' is a common expression in the field. 
 ''Nonprofits don't operate on air or good intentions,'' Mr. Green says. ''If you can sell, market or work with money, you have a skill that is highly prized in the nonprofit world.'' 

CONTINUING EDUCATION
 Follow the money. That means learning grant-proposal writing, fund-raising and not-for-profit operations and management. The Nonprofit Academic Centers Council (www.naccouncil.org) can connect you to schools that offer degree programs and certification courses. 
 The Association of Fundraising Professionals (www.afpnet.org) offers two certification programs: an eight-session course in fund-raising techniques that can be done online, and a five-session course in essentials like development and turning contributors into major donors. The latter will be conducted starting in January at the association's 172 chapters, and an online version will be available after that. 
 Another industry association, the Foundation Center (www.fdncenter.org), also offers online tutorials and many free and fee-based classes in grant writing, fund-raising and management at its centers in Atlanta, Cleveland, New York, San Francisco and Washington. 
 Mr. Green's organization, the Grantsmanship Center (www.tgci.com), has been providing training for 33 years and holds more than 200 workshops a year around the country. It has two basic programs: a five-day course on how to research and write grant proposals and negotiate with financing sources, and a three-day workshop on spinning off products and services (think Girl Scout cookies, Salvation Army stores). 
 For midcareer changers with time to invest, almost 100 universities offer degrees or concentrations in not-for-profit management or philanthropy. Seton Hall, the New School and the Mandel Center for Nonprofit Organizations at Case Western Reserve are just three of the more prominent programs. Of particular interest to adult students, the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University offers a five-course online certification in management. Those still working can take advantage of its ''executive option'' in the master's program in philanthropic studies, spending an intensive week at the Indianapolis campus for three summers and completing the degree via distance learning. 

2. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
 Few who lived through the dot-com bust in 2001 would have predicted that the technology sector could come back in four short years. But that's what is happening. The United States Department of Labor says technology is one of the country's fastest-growing industries, with an average salary of $67,900 and some 600,000 new jobs expected by 2012. 
 Much has changed, however. The major qualification in the frenzied 90's was ''the ability to fog a mirror,'' says Harris Miller, president of the Information Technology Association of America. Today, with the industry growing in complexity and scope, employers are scrutinizing applicants' educational bona fides. Among the ingredients for success? A solid grounding in information system basics and a teaming of past workplace experience -- in areas like management, graphic design, health care, law enforcement -- with newly learned technology skills. Experts also recommend zeroing in on high-demand jobs like network security and project management. 
 The online I.T. community www.dice.com provides links to educational opportunities, jobs and industry information. 

CONTINUING EDUCATION
 Computer network security is the hottest thing going, say experts like Brian Reithel, president of the Association of I.T. Professionals. The area promises to get even hotter as national security needs grow and information systems are increasingly threatened by hackers, identity thieves and even natural disasters like Katrina. 
 The field has gained new credence as an academic subject. The computer and information technology department at Purdue now emphasizes network security, including a specialized cluster of four courses in cyberforensics (www.cyberforensics.purdue.edu). A lab with mobile forensic computers and other high-tech crime-analysis gear provides hands-on training for law enforcement officials, prosecutors and lawyers planning to reposition themselves within their fields or change careers entirely. The program is being developed into a master's degree. 
 The New Jersey Institute of Technology, recognized by the National Security Agency for excellence in the field of computer security education, offers a 12-credit certificate in network security. It is part of the new Program for Professional Development, a ''weekend university,'' which leads to a bachelor's in I.T. Designed for working adults, classes are held on Friday night and Saturday and online during the week. The program is intended for those who have a two-year associate degree, even in an unrelated field, and for so-called stop-outs -- those who dropped out of college during the Internet boom to take technology jobs. It front-loads its curriculum with six I.T. courses so students can jump into the job market quickly, completing required courses unrelated to I.T. later in their schedules. 
 Fittingly, much of the action in this field is online. New Horizons Computer Learning Centers (www.newhorizons.com) offers online certification in network security, including the oxymoronic-sounding ''ethical hacking,'' in which students learn to hack their own systems to understand what the bad guys can do. In addition to the plethora of tech-oriented degree programs designed for working adults, many universities with an online focus -- including Strayer, DeVry and Capella -- have developed diplomas that provide concentrated education in specific areas, like Web design and networking. They typically consist of 12 credit-bearing courses that can be used toward a bachelor's. 

3. NURSING
 The demand for registered nurses is greater than ever, as is the shortage: more than a million additional nurses will be needed by 2012, according to the Department of Labor. Contributing factors are an aging boomer population, increasingly complex illnesses and evidence-based medical practice that requires information-technology skills. Compensation matches the demand: With salaries of $40 to $50 an hour plus overtime, nurses can earn more than $100,000 a year.
 This would seem to make nursing a good bet for midcareer changers, and in fact, a third of students enrolled in training are 31 to 50 years old, according to the National League for Nursing. 
 But burnout is high in an occupation where routine stress is exacerbated by a shortage of personnel. Nursing programs have toughened entry requirements, and schools can't turn out nurses fast enough for lack of faculty, classroom space and clinical resources. ''The demand exists,'' says Carol J. Bickford, senior policy fellow at the American Nursing Association, ''but there are not enough resources for training.''

CONTINUING EDUCATION
 Traditionally, there are three routes into the profession: a two-year associate degree from a community college, which focuses on technical skills rather than theory; a bachelor of science in nursing, or B.S.N., a more well-rounded degree and one that more hospitals are demanding, and diploma programs, three-year hospital degrees that have fallen from favor and shrunk in number.
 The most efficient way in for an adult is through an accelerated B.S.N. -- concentrated, rigorous training for those who already hold a bachelor's in another area but want a quick transition into nursing. More than 160 universities around the country offer accelerated B.S.N.'s, including well-established programs at Pace, Columbia and Georgetown. In return for speed -- the programs run 11 to 18 months, including prerequisites -- they require total commitment. ''We tell our students that for 11 months they must put their lives on hold,'' says Gloria Donnelly, dean of Drexel University's College of Nursing and Health Professions. ''They absolutely cannot work, get married, get pregnant or divorced.'' 
 That expectation may seem prohibitive to an adult wanting to hold down a job while making the transition, but these programs hold surprising appeal. For one thing, the alternatives are limited. Because clinical experience is essential in nurse training, online midcareer bastions like Regis University and the University of Phoenix offer B.S.N. degrees only for those who are already practicing nurses. Accelerated programs draw atypical nursing students: At Drexel in Philadelphia, the average age is 32, and 20 percent are men. This group appeals to employers because they are older, motivated and have high academic expectations, according to those in the field. 
 Lists of programs can be found on the Web site of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (www.aacn.nche.edu) and at the online guide ''All Nursing Schools'' (www.allnursingschools.com). 

4. REAL ESTATE
 It is tempting to look at the recent red-hot housing market as an explanation for this field's popularity with career changers. But real estate has historically attracted those in transition, thanks to its ease of entry, flexible hours (15 percent of agents work part time), high earning potential and acceptance of women, who make up 54 percent of the profession.
 The industry is always recruiting, says Dorcas Helfant, past president of the National Association of Realtors. Compensation varies regionally and, since agents work on commission, depends on an agent's activity. The median income in 2004 was $58,700 for those in the business six to 10 years. But that figure does not fully reflect the windfall commissions of the last five years, because the numbers of agents have grown substantially and because many agents are part-timers. 
 The field's rapid growth has paralleled the increase in home sales, but there is constant chatter about ''the bubble,'' and the Department of Labor reports that employment of agents and brokers (who have more training and experience) will grow more slowly than the average for all occupations through 2012. Regardless, half end up leaving the business within three years.
 ''It's a challenging business,'' Ms. Helfant says. ''You need to be self-motivated and have an entrepreneurial mentality.'' 

CONTINUING EDUCATION
 David Funk, who heads Cornell's Program in Real Estate, believes that despite the red flags, a ''permanent paradigm shift'' has occurred in the field, including a ''trend toward professionalization.'' Efficient development and management, environmentally conscious architecture, creative financing, urban economics and human ecology are all emerging areas of study being tied together by universities under the real estate umbrella, usually in a Master of Science degree. 
 This ''multidisciplinary approach,'' says Michael Anikeeff, chairman of the Edward St. John Department of Real Estate at Johns Hopkins University, ''allows students to move into different parts of the industry.'' It also attracts a variety of career changers -- architects, bankers, lawyers -- who want to build on established credentials to move into a new line of work.
 Hopkins, Columbia, New York University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of Southern California and DePaul University have taken up the banner, offering the degrees with midcareer changers in mind. Some allow part-time study. Columbia has an accelerated one-year program focusing on development. N.Y.U. also offers certificates in appraisal, management and finance, and weekend workshops through its Real Estate Institute. 
 For those with a less esoteric interest in the field -- who want to handle residential sales and ''work the street,'' as real-estate agents say -- making the transition doesn't require a huge investment of time or money. 
 Each state has its own licensing requirements and differs in the amount of education needed to get it -- from 20 hours in Alaska to 99 in Delaware. The easiest way to get information, and possibly training, is to walk into a real estate office and ask, says Iverson Moore of the Realtors Association. Large companies like Coldwell Banker and Long & Foster run in-house training in real estate basics like title insurance, zoning regulation and financing methods. 

5.TEACHING
 With 375,000 teachers retiring between 1999 and 2009, and the K-12 student population swelling to 55 million by 2010, schools are counting on older workers entering the profession to help fill the gap. The biggest needs are in the West and Northeast, and in urban schools. Career changers are hearing the call: some 70,000 have turned to teaching in the last two years. With real-life experience, realistic job expectations and willingness to work in high-need areas, they are ''a boon'' to society, says Mildred Hudson, head of Recruiting New Teachers, a professional advocacy group and job clearinghouse. For their part, she says, career changers are seeking work that is ''more noble'' -- which is a good thing, given an average salary of $46,752. 

CONTINUING EDUCATION
 Many career changers, unwilling or unable to invest the time or money needed for a traditional university education school, take advantage of fast-track training and job placement programs leading to certification. Virtually every state has alternative routes into teaching, some accelerated. Two ways to find them are through Recruiting New Teachers (www.rnt.org) and the National Center for Alternative Certification (www.teach-now.org). Education departments at local colleges and universities can also provide information on available programs and state licensing requirements. 
 New York City's Teaching Fellows program (www.nycteachingfellows.org) is considered a model for moving adults into the schools. This fall, 70 percent of its trainees were career changers. The program accepts one in five applicants, then moves them into an intensive seven-week program that combines education coursework, student teaching and advisory sessions. 
 Participants must pass two state certification exams before being placed in a classroom and work toward their master's degrees in education while teaching.


GRAPHIC: Drawing: Veronica Ferre is an M.F.A. candidate in set design at the Tisch School of the Arts, New York University. (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (75%); CHARITIES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); WRITERS (71%) 

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (84%)

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: Cecilia Capuzzi Simon

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2005



103 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4A; Column 3; Education Life Supplement; SPENDING IT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Don't Forget Pizza Money

BYLINE: By James Schembari. 
James Schembari is editor of the Connecticut section of The Times.

 BODY:
I WAS feeling proud of myself. My oldest child, Marian, had just started college, and the savings plan I had put into place shortly after she was born had paid off: I had enough to pay her tuition and room and board. 
 That feeling did not last. While I had saved for the big bills, I hadn't troubled with the smaller stuff -- books, supplies, travel and everyday expenses. They can add $3,000 or more a year, depending on parents' generosity and where their child goes to college. 
''Most parents that we deal with come back to us and say, 'You've underestimated the cost of college,''' said Raymond D. Loewe, president of College Money, a consulting company in Marlton, N.J. ''There's pizza money.'' 
 And you have to get that pizza money into your child's hands. Was I to just give Marian cash, or should I get her a credit, debit or A.T.M. card? My daughter was going to college, but I was the one getting the education.
 Take the credit card question. The answer isn't multiple choice; it's simply no. Financial experts say parents should never give a student a credit card: it's a temptation to misbehave. Rather, give them a debit card tied to a bank account that you ''feed'' with a set amount every month and monitor online. Make sure the account doesn't allow overdrafts, to avoid fees -- a friend got hit with a $30 charge when her daughter overdrew by 90 cents -- and to keep the student from going over budget.
 Another good way to get money to students is with the cash cards issued by more than 1,200 colleges for purchases at the campus bookstore, student union and snack bars (they double as security cards, for dorm access). Some can also be used off campus; at Davidson College in North Carolina, where my daughter goes, the card is good at Domino's Pizza and a local sushi restaurant.
 Now that the children have your money, you have to help them budget it. Neale Godfrey, author of ''Money Still Doesn't Grow on Trees: A Parent's Guide to Raising Financially Responsible Teens and Young Adults,'' suggests having the student track expenses for a month to see where the money is going and then working out a budget from that.
 ''You pay for basics -- food, books, clothing and transportation back home,'' Ms. Godfrey said. ''You pay the needs, they pay the wants. You do want them to have experience, traveling, cultural events, but we're not paying for Starbucks, not paying for designer jeans.'' 
 They can pay for those jeans themselves by working during the summer and holidays, but educators caution that students should work during the school year only if it is an economic necessity or if it doesn't interfere with academics.
 In the end, I decided to put $1,000 on Marian's college cash card for a year's worth of books and on-campus expenses, and $300 on a debit card for off-campus expenses the first month, $200 for each subsequent month. (The $300 didn't last through the first month, by the way. We had a chat about that.) So I'll spend at least $2,900 for the year, $900 more than what Davidson said I would need.
 Some colleges provide a projection of students' expenses (one place to look is the College Board Web site, www.collegeboard.com). Yale estimates $2,700 a year with books. New York University suggests $1,000 for spending money alone, which Barbara Hall, associate provost for admissions and financial aid, calls ''a peanut-butter-and-jelly amount.'' 
 ''We put in an amount that students can get by on, but it doesn't allow for frills,'' she says. ''Every family has something different.''
 AT a party for incoming Davidson families, I asked the parents sitting at my table how they handled spending money. James R. Psaki, a real estate developer from Greenwich, Conn., said he puts $2,000 a year into a bank account for each of his three daughters on top of the money they earn during the summer. He also breaks the rules and gives them credit cards, mainly for emergencies. He said he trusts his girls and they do not abuse the cards. ''If they needed something, they'd call me to ask'' before they used the card, he said.
 Michael Petrino of Westport, Conn., director of research at Affinity Investment Advisers, said he put $3,000 on the college cash card of his daughter, Sarah, a freshman, and would probably give her another $200 to $300 a month in spending money. Like her brother, Michael, who had already graduated, she would also get a credit card. Mr. Petrino had monitored Michael's card closely, talking with him if there was a questionable expense. ''All I had to tell him is that I had noticed it and that was enough.'' 
 ''You don't want to give the kids so much money that they don't value it,'' he said, ''but you don't want them to restrict important activities due to lack of funds. That's a thin line to walk.''
 Cindy Bailey, executive director of education finance services for the College Board, explains where the wrong side of that line could lead. ''The more they spend on personal expenses, the more they are going to dip into savings and the more they will borrow,'' she said. ''You don't have much power over controlling costs in college, but with this one you do.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Out of Pocket''Average undergraduate expenses, not including tuition, room and board, 2005-6.FOUR-YEAR PUBLICResident/out of stateBOOKS AND SUPPLIES: $894TRANSPORTATION: $852OTHER EXPENSES: $1,693TOTAL: $3,439CommuterBOOKS AND SUPPLIES: $894TRANSPORTATION: $1,168OTHER EXPENSES: $1,962TOTAL: $4,024FOUR-YEAR PRIVATEResidentBOOKS AND SUPPLIES: $904TRANSPORTATION: $691OTHER EXPENSES: $1,295TOTAL: $2,890(Illustrations by Jody Emery)(Source by College Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); PARENTING (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DEBIT CARDS (87%); TUITION FEES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); WRITERS (76%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); FAST FOOD (73%); BOOKSTORES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%) 

COMPANY: DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (58%)

TICKER: DPZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%)

PERSON: James Schembari

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2005



104 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: November 6, 2005

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1		1	AT FIRST SIGHT, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.95.) The young couple from ''True Believer,'' who are now expecting a child, receive a disturbing message.		 	 	 	2	1	2	KNIFE OF DREAMS, by Robert Jordan. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $29.95.) Book 11 of the Wheel of Time fantasy series.		 	 	 	3	4	2	CONSENT TO KILL, by Vince Flynn. (Atria, $25.95.) A spy is the target of an international conspiracy spawned by the father of a terrorist he killed.		 	 	 	4	2	3	THE LINCOLN LAWYER, by Michael Connelly. (Little, Brown, $26.95.) A Los Angeles criminal defense attorney takes a case that proves more complicated and dangerous than he expected.		 	 	 	5	3	3	BLUE SMOKE, by Nora Roberts (Putnam, $25.95.) An arson investigator whose family suffered a fire when she was a child is menaced by a sociopath.		 	 	 	6		1	THE AMBLER WARNING, by Robert Ludlum. (St. Martin's, $25.95.) A former clandestine operative escapes from a government psychiatric prison and tries to re-establish his identity.		 	 	 	7*	7	4	SON OF A WITCH, by Gregory Maguire. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $26.95.) Liir makes his way through the dangerous land of Oz; a sequel to ''Wicked.''		 	 	 	8	5	2	A WEDDING IN DECEMBER, by Anita Shreve. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) Seven former schoolmates reunite for a wedding and remember the tragedy that drove them apart.		 	 	 	9		1	SAVING FISH FROM DROWNING, by Amy Tan. (Putnam, $26.95.) The misadventures and misunderstandings of 12 American tourists in China and Burma.		 	 	 	10	6	4	A BREATH OF SNOW AND ASHES, by Diana Gabaldon. (Delacorte, $28.) In 1772, the British governor of North Carolina asks Jamie to support the king, but Jamie's time-traveling wife assures him independence is inevitable; an Outlander novel.		 	 	 	11	9	5	THE MARCH, by E. L. Doctorow. (Random House, $25.95.) The story of Sherman's sweep through the South and the lives he left in his wake.		 	 	 	12	136	11	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	13	8	5	GOODNIGHT NOBODY, by Jennifer Weiner. (Atria, $26.) An unhappy suburban mother gains her independence by investigating a murder.		 	 	 	14	12	4	GABRIEL'S ANGEL, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $17.95.) On a snowy night in Colorado, a man saves a stranded pregnant woman and joins her custody battle after falling in love.		 	 	 	15		6	THE WIDOW OF THE SOUTH, by Robert Hicks. (Warner, $24.95.) After the Battle of Franklin in 1864, a Tennessee woman turns over her plantation to Confederate troops for use as a hospital -- and also as a cemetery.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	29	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy and presents an overview of globalization trends.		 	 	 	2	2	3	THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING, by Joan Didion. (Knopf, $23.95.) The author's attempts to come to terms with the death of her husband.		 	 	 	3	4	4	THE CITY OF FALLING ANGELS, by John Berendt. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) The author of ''Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil'' investigates a fire in Venice.		 	 	 	4	5	28	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar applies economic thinking to everything from sumo wrestlers who cheat to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	5	3	2	MY FBI, by Louis J. Freeh with Howard Means. (St. Martin's, $25.95.) The director of the F.B.I. from 1993 to 2001 describes his career.		 	 	 	6	6	22	1776, by David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) An account of America's founding year by the Pulitzer Prize-winning author, focusing on the inexperienced George Washington and heroic citizen soldiers. 		 	 	 	7	9	41	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	8	7	4	WHAT REMAINS, by Carole Radziwill. (Scribner, $25.95.) A memoir of a suburban girl who grew up to marry a prince (a Kennedy nephew) who died young.		 	 	 	9	13	4	A MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY, by Kurt Vonnegut. (Seven Stories, $23.95.) Autobiographical essays and observations from the author of ''Slaughterhouse-Five.''		 	 	 	10		1	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	11	8	4	SYMPTOMS OF WITHDRAWAL, by Christopher Kennedy Lawford. (Morrow, $25.95.) The son of Peter Lawford and Patricia Kennedy, a Washington and Hollywood insider, recalls his substance abuse and recovery.		 	 	 	12*		4	NEVER HAVE YOUR DOG STUFFED, by Alan Alda. (Random House, $24.95.) A memoir by the television, movie and Broadway actor.		 	 	 	13		1	ROMO: MY LIFE ON THE EDGE, by Bill Romanowski with Adam Schefter and Phil Towle. (Morrow, $24.95.) The memoir of a star N.F.L. linebacker.		 	 	 	14	15	6	THE GAME, by Neil Strauss. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $29.95.) Two years among pickup artists.		 	 	 	15	14	4	PHENOMENON, by Sylvia Browne with Lindsay Harrison. (Dutton, $24.95.) A guide to the paranormal from a self-described psychic.		 	 	 	16*		2	A CRACK IN THE EDGE OF THE WORLD, by Simon Winchester. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) A popular historian draws on his geological background to describe the Great California Earthquake of 1906.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Oct. 22, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
Other recent books of particular interest
AHMAD'S WAR, AHMAD'S PEACE: Surviving Under Saddam, Dying in the New Iraq, by Michael Goldfarb. (Carroll & Graf, $25.95.) A memoir of a good man murdered for his decency.
 THE ASSASSINS' GATE: America in Iraq, by George Packer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) The New Yorker reporter chronicles the pride and ignorance he blames for the war.
 NIGHT DRAWS NEAR: Iraq's People in the Shadow of America's War, by Anthony Shadid. (Holt, $26.) An Arabic-speaking reporter on life in the Red Zone, outside American control.
 VERONICA, by Mary Gaitskill. (Pantheon, $23.) A novel that ruminates on beauty and cruelty, told by a former Paris model now sick and poor.
 MAO: The Unknown Story, by Jung Chang and Jon Halliday. (Knopf, $35.) A huge, meticulously researched biography that paints Chairman Mao in authentic Hitler-Stalin 20th-century hues. 
 LETTERS FROM NEW ORLEANS, by Rob Walker. (Garrett County Press, paper, $12.95.) Discoveries of untouristy corners and inexplicable practices that now may be gone forever. 
 WOLF POINT, by Edward Falco. (Unbridled, $23.95.) A thriller about a curious businessman and an irresistibly menacing young couple.
 WARPED PASSAGES: Unraveling the Mysteries of the Universe's Hidden Dimensions, by Lisa Randall. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $27.95.) Advanced cosmological theories for lay folk.
 TULIA: Race, Cocaine, and Corruption in a Small Texas Town, by Nate Blakeslee. (PublicAffairs, $26.95.) How 38 people, mostly black, were convicted of grave drug charges on virtually no evidence but the word of a single cop.
 ALWAYS MAGIC IN THE AIR: The Bomp and Brilliance of the Brill Building Era, by Ken Emerson. (Viking, $25.95.) How New York songwriters thrived between Elvis and the Beatles. 
 THE LAST COACH: A Life of Paul ''Bear'' Bryant, by Allen Barra. (Norton, $26.95.) A sprawling but thoughtful biography of the legendary head coach of Alabama's Crimson Tide.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); CONSPIRACY (76%); ESPIONAGE (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ARSON (74%); TERRORISM (71%); LAWYERS (71%); GOVERNORS (62%); MURDER (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DAN BROWN (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



105 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 11-06-05; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Migrant Worry

BYLINE: By David Rieff. 
David Rieff, a contributing writer, is the author, most recently, of ''At the Point of a Gun: Democratic Dreams and Armed Intervention.''

 BODY:
The issue of immigration finally seems to have achieved critical mass. Open borders, closed borders; sovereignty versus globalization; even that cruelest of questions, the ''valuable'' immigrant versus the immigrant who is likely to be a burden: all of these topics are now on the table. Of course, Americans have been concerned about immigration on and off for decades in some parts of the country, especially Florida and the states bordering Mexico. And yet for all the efforts of figures like Pat Buchanan or Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, it is only recently that large numbers of Americans have come to believe that illegal immigration is as important a matter as abortion or taxes.
In part, this is because of the fallout of 9/11. In part, it is because of a generalized belief that the country is being flooded by immigrants -- an impression that is hardly false, since the United States has a higher proportion of foreign-born residents than at any time since the 1930's. It is probably also because of the fact that immigrants are now spread throughout most of the country, instead of largely remaining in the great urban centers like New York, Los Angeles and Chicago. 
 On the political right, the current disenchantment with the Bush administration owes much to the perception that the president is more committed to legalizing guest workers than to stemming the flow of illegal immigrants. That America's borders have become more porous under the watch of an administration whose proudest boast is its commitment to national security is an outrage to many Americans, especially Republicans. The G.O.P. pollster Frank Luntz said recently that when he brings the issue up in focus groups, ''you can't shut people up.'' 
 Such a pervasive sense of being engulfed by illegal aliens has also been afflicting Europe. When Dutch voters rejected the E.U. Constitution this spring, many commentators understood their decision as a protest in part against the ever-growing number of immigrants in their midst. And when hundreds of would-be immigrants from sub-Saharan Africa rushed the barbed-wire fences that separate the Spanish enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla from Morocco, the crisis eclipsed every other issue in Spain and forced the Socialist government of Jos? Luis Rodr?guez Zapatero to re-evaluate its relatively pro-immigration policies.
 Supporters of immigration and its foes tend to insist that the issue is simple. American critics of open borders speak in terms of national sovereignty and cultural cohesion. The ideal of the melting pot, they insist, has become obsolete in an age marked by the anti-assimilationist doctrines of multiculturalism and the hard facts of globalization. If the United States is to retain its cultural identity, the argument goes, it cannot accept everyone who wants to come here. And on one level, this is simply a statement of fact. A recent poll showed that more than 40 percent of Mexicans said they would move to the United States if given the opportunity -- that is, some 42 million people. And Mexico is doing better economically than many Central and South American countries. 
 Pro-immigration activists, for their part, speak in terms of globalization and justice. Globalization, they argue, cannot mean the free movement of capital and of middle-class professionals alone (American bankers in Hong Kong, French software designers in Silicon Valley). Like it or not, it also implies the free movement of peoples. In addition, without immigrants the populations of developed countries would either be stagnant (as is more or less the case in the U.S.) or moving into decline, as in Japan and much of Europe. Rich societies need laborers to do jobs that native-born people are no longer willing to do, and they need skilled immigrants to make up for shortfalls of nurses, doctors, engineers and other professionals.
 In a sense, the debate boils down to culture and politics versus economics. That is probably why it is business, far more than the liberal left in the U.S. and Europe, that has been the great champion of less restrictive immigration policies. The problem is that even though politicians and businessmen refer to the new immigrants as ''guest workers'' (the term Europeans used in the 50's and the Bush administration is using today), they are here to stay. And popular discomfort with this reality is not xenophobia alone. A society that grants substantial rights to its citizens may be less willing to accord those rights to strangers.
 Some years ago, in an effort to counter a rising anti-immigrant, anti-asylum-seeker mood, the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees initiated a campaign with a simple slogan: ''Einstein Was a Refugee.'' The campaign called attention to the undeniable fact that the new wave of immigration was bringing the best and the brightest of the poor world to Western Europe, Australia and the United States. If there was a problem in all this, it was that the brain drain of talented professionals from Africa and Latin America was stripping the ''sender'' countries of essential citizens. In other words, the ''value'' in the exchange was all to the benefit of the rich world and the detriment of the poor world.
 But can we measure the ''value'' of an individual? Should we? Ultimately, the immigration debate is also an ethical debate, and as such, it raises hard questions that cannot be answered by appeals to economic calculation, human rights legislation or sentiments of nationalism alone. Difficult as it may be to think in terms of ''valuable'' versus ''valueless'' immigrants, or to distinguish between the free circulation of information and the free circulation of individuals, the growing political clamor over immigration will force us to think hard about such questions, and perhaps sooner than we expect.

 Immigrants' assessment of conditions in the U.S. versus those in their country of origin.
 Source: NPR/Kaiser/Kennedy School: Immigration Survey, May 27 to Aug. 2, 2004. (Chart by 5W Infographic.)

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Ad van Denderen
 Agence Vu)Chart: ''A NEW LIFE''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%); FOCUS GROUPS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: THOMAS G TANCREDO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); MOROCCO (79%); SPAIN (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



106 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Martial Plan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 As a share of America's gross domestic product, the Marshall Plan cost us the equivalent of what today would be $200 billion, according to Anthony Gottlieb's review of Tony Judt's ''Postwar'' (Oct. 16).We have now spent that much on the war in Iraq.Readers can judge for themselves whether the war in Iraq has accomplished as much as did the Marshall Plan, which successfully rehabilitated Europe after World War II. It unified Europe for the first time in history, created a market for America's exports and stopped the spread of Communism to Western Europe, and did all this without causing the death of a single American soldier or European civilian.

Richard Joffe 
 New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); IRAQ WAR (87%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



107 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; CRIME; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Barn Burning

BYLINE: By Marilyn Stasio

 BODY:
REGIONAL mysteries used to be a great escape hatch. You could pick up a novel by a reliable author like Archer Mayor and soon be deep in Vermont, skiing by moonlight or tramping a field with a dog. Oh, sure, someone would always be dead by the end of the first chapter -- but watching a good cop like Joe Gunther, a detective with the Vermont Bureau of Investigation, work a hometown homicide was a window into the community. Regional lawmen could identify the drug dealers, real estate developers and other forces of evil destabilizing the region, and a writer like Mayor would make sure you got a detailed look at it all.
ST. ALBANS FIRE (Mysterious, $24.95), follows the formula in a well-built plot centered on the dairy industry in the rural northwest corner of Vermont, but the issues it raises are no longer local. Like James Crumley in Montana, Tony Hillerman in the Southwest and regional authors across the map, Mayor has lately been looking beyond his own state's borders for sources of corruption that, more and more, seem to involve the covert activities of government agencies like the Department of Homeland Security and the C.I.A. 
 Mayor's latest book opens in his familiar style, with an austerely beautiful scene in which a young dairy farmer gets out of bed in the middle of the night and, after stopping to admire the reflection of a full moon on the snow, goes out to deliver a calf. Observing the farmer in his barn, ''as natural an environment to him as a ship might be to a man raised at sea,'' Mayor holds him up to the reader as the embodiment of ''a culture dating back 150 years.'' So when the barn bursts into flames, killing the farmer and destroying 60 cows, we know that what's really at stake here is a culture, a way of life.
 For a while, the narrative proceeds on the expected track, with Gunther and his ''irascible, infuriating, corrosively sarcastic'' deputy, Willy Kunkle, investigating the fires that are driving small farmers out of business. Knowing what ''family dysfunction and grinding economic struggle'' can do to the spirit, Mayor doesn't romanticize these tough rural folks, but he respects their work ethic and his sympathy goes deep for the arson victims who just fold, ''too old and too tired to give a damn anymore.''
 Since Mayor has no use for the carpetbaggers stealing the farmers' livelihood and plundering their heritage, he's unable to make these villains interesting, even when he sends Joe and Willy out of state to confront them. Nonetheless, like so many other regional authors these days, Mayor seems determined to identify patterns in local crimes that would set them within a broader, more alarming national context. And while finding a more sinister reason for a barn burning doesn't make the result any less tragic, it does put readers on notice: there's nowhere left to escape to.
 Regional crime novels may be getting grittier, but there's still comfort to be found in the civilized mysteries of the pseudonymous Elizabeth Ironside -- recently revealed to be Catherine Manning, wife of the current British ambassador to the United States -- that a new publishing house is making available here. An extremely stylish piece of writing, DEATH IN THE GARDEN (Felony and Mayhem, paper, $14.95) is a country-house mystery told in two parts, opening in 1925 on a gracious estate with a lively group of friends gathered for a birthday party that turns grim when the host is poisoned and his wife is arrested for the murder. The leisurely pace of the storytelling is perfectly pitched to that mannerly period between the two world wars when attractive people like George Pollexfen, an influential member of Parliament, and his charming wife, Diana, a ''New Woman'' with a vivid bohemian sensibility, could spend a weekend entertaining their clever friends from the city. The narrative maintains its appeal when the story shifts to the present day and the same country home, where Diana's great-niece, Helena, has called her cousins together to read through her late aunt's journals and absolve her of the suspicion that hung over her for the rest of her life.
 Legal thrillers, with their tight formats and highly structured procedures, can keep the mind focused. James Sheehan observes the conventions and boldly expands them in his assured first novel, THE MAYOR OF LEXINGTON AVENUE (Yorkville, paper, $14.95), which gets the blood up with its story of a mildly retarded young man named Rudy Kelly who's railroaded into a murder conviction in the tiny Florida backwater of Bass Creek in 1986. While the case is initially shocking for what it reveals of small-town injustice and incompetence, it offers ethical salvation 10 years later to a slick Miami lawyer named Jack Tobin, who owes a big debt to Rudy's dead father. Sheehan, a trial lawyer in Tampa, writes with bleak clarity when he's sharing the dirty tricks of his trade in the harrowing trial scenes, but there's a touch of the poet in his voice when he turns to Rudy and Bass Creek and the kind of innocence that gets crushed in the infernal coils of the law.
 When the urge for escapist reading simply can't be denied, there are always foreign authors like Jean-Claude Izzo, whose noir crime novels set in Marseilles are so thick with local color it almost smothers the story. In TOTAL CHAOS (Europa Editions, paper, $14.95), the geography seems to dictate the narrative, which describes the murder of two friends from the slums and then follows a third friend, the detective Fabio Montale, as he tries to avenge them. Montale's eyes gaze with fierce love on this beautiful and corrupt seaport town. ''Marseilles isn't a city for tourists,'' Izzo says in Howard Curtis's blunt translation. But it's a city for readers.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Archer Mayor. (Photograph by Kathryn Tolbert)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); SKIING (77%); MAMMALS (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); ARSON (76%); DAIRY FARMING (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (68%); AGRICULTURE (68%); ETHICS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (94%); EARTH'S MOON (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



108 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: 'Radically Populist' 

BYLINE: By JAMES RYERSON. 
James Ryerson is an editor at The New York Times Magazine.

 BODY:
AMERICA'S CONSTITUTION
 A Biography.
 By Akhil Reed Amar.
 Illustrated. 655 pp. 
 Random House. $29.95.
IN the popular imagination, there are two ways of interpreting the Constitution: the conservative way, which views the document strictly in light of the words on the page and the original intent of the authors; and the liberal way, which sees a ''living'' text with room to accommodate historical change as well as much of what the Supreme Court has declared the Constitution says (even when it doesn't actually say it). The conservative approach promises to respect democracy by keeping judges in check, at the cost of enslaving us to the dead hand of the past. The liberal position allows us to preserve many judicial doctrines, like the right of privacy, at the risk of relying on principles conjured from thin air. 
 Akhil Reed Amar, a professor at Yale Law School, provides a welcome reminder that this cramped dichotomy does not exhaust the options. He is what you might call a liberal originalist. While many assume that a conservative reading of the Constitution will lead inevitably to a conservative interpretation, Amar has argued, in scholarly articles and in a previous book, ''The Bill of Rights,'' that paying scrupulous attention to the text, history and structure of the Constitution often reveals support for liberal outcomes. His approach, which he calls ''constitutional textualism,'' strikes a conservative-sounding note of frustration with judges who neglect the document in front of them. ''The Constitution,'' he wrote several years ago in The Harvard Law Review, ''is wiser than the court.''
 In ''America's Constitution,'' Amar sets out to introduce his text-centric vision to a more general readership. He calls his book an ''opinionated biography,'' drawing on history, political science and legal scholarship to comment on the origin and significance of virtually every paragraph of the Constitution, starting with the first line of the preamble (''We the People . . .'') and working through to the lone sentence of the 27th Amendment. (''No law varying the compensation for the services of the Senators and Representatives shall take effect, until an election of Representatives shall have intervened.'') 
 Amar does not present a single, unifying argument; his project is too wide-ranging for that. But he does convey a distinctive attitude toward the Constitution, one that manages to be reverential and celebratory without succumbing to the triumphalism that the often breathless tenor of his prose might lead you to expect. (''America's Constitution beckons,'' reads the book's sonorous opening sentence, ''a New World Acropolis open to all.'')
 Amar paints an approving picture of the Constitution as radically populist, emphasizing the ways in which the ratification process was opened to lower-born, less propertied men (among other democratic innovations). This contrasts sharply with, say, the more cynical portrait in Charles Beard's influential 1913 book ''An Economic Interpretation of the Constitution,'' which contended that the framers' primary purpose had been to create a charter that protected their wealth. At the same time, Amar's Constitution is, until the addition of the 13th Amendment after the Civil War, more thoroughly defined (and corrupted) by its concessions to slave states than many contemporary historians would probably acknowledge. Amar argues that even at the time the Constitution was written, the decision in Article I to count slaves (in part) when apportioning representatives to the House was retrograde: it had not been a feature of any state constitution before 1787, any colony before 1776, the Articles of Confederation or any custom in England.
 At his best, Amar has a knack for assembling surprising bits of historical context that freshen one's outlook on what had seemed settled questions. A nice example is his brief but provocative discussion of the Constitution's commerce clause. Article I, Section 8 gives Congress the power to ''regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes.'' Much to the dismay of conservatives, this clause has long been interpreted by the Supreme Court to mean that the federal government has the power to regulate a wide range of affairs among the states. Scholars with originalist leanings, noting the express use of the word ''commerce,'' have often argued that the clause clearly gives Congress regulatory power over economic interactions only (a view to which the Supreme Court has become increasingly receptive).
 But Amar makes a compelling case on textual and historical grounds that the commerce clause can be read, as many liberals would like, as applying to more than just the economic sphere. He notes that in 1787 the word ''commerce'' was generally used to refer to all the various forms of interaction in life. (He cites contemporary texts that spoke of the ''free and easy commerce of social life'' and ''our Lord's commerce with his disciples.'') More important, he argues, unless ''commerce'' is read in this expansive fashion, it is not clear how Congress would have the authority to address noneconomic relations with other nations or with Indian tribes, a power that you might reasonably assume the framers wanted Congress to have. Indeed, Amar shows that if you examine the draft language from the constitutional conclave at Philadelphia in 1787, the framers initially granted Congress the power to regulate ''affairs'' (not just economic affairs) with the Indians. This language became simply ''commerce'' when the Indian clause was merged into the same provision with ''foreign Nations'' and ''several States'' in the final document.
 In other writings, Amar has acknowledged that sitting judges and justices, not being historians, may be poorly equipped to participate in this sort of intensive textual scrutiny, however critical it may be. Which, he has argued, only increases the important role that law professors like himself can play in ''helping our fellow citizens'' learn about the Constitution. ''America's Constitution'' is undeniably a masterly showcase of scholarship and certainly of interest to judges and justices. I wish I could say it is also a pleasure for the general citizen, but in truth, it is a bit of a slog, reading at times like a textbook or civics lesson. That said, it does have the virtues of those genres. It is authoritative, important and, at a time of maddening political polarity, refreshingly hard to categorize.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Harold Shapiro)Drawing (Drawing by Dusan Petricic)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); LAWYERS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



109 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 2; Travel Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Five Years After Intifada, Leisure Tourists Are Starting to Walk Among the Pilgrims 

BYLINE: By BORIS FISHMAN

 BODY:
AFTER the Palestinian intifada began in the fall of 2000, traveling to Israel became a statement of sorts. The Israeli tourism industry came to survive on a demographically narrowed but ideologically committed clientele: Christian pilgrims and American Jews. Leisure travel slowed to a trickle, with the overall number of visitors falling from a high of 2.8 million in 2000 to less than a million in 2002, according to the Israel Ministry of Tourism. 
 But after half a decade of empty hotel rooms, Israel seems to be drawing diverse crowds once again.
''More and more people are thinking of it as a vacation destination rather than in purely religious terms,'' said Eileen Hart, a vice president of Isram World, a New York tour operator that specializes in Israel and sends as many as 20,000 travelers there annually. ''Many years ago, it was retirees who tended to go -- you know, 'Let me see Jerusalem before I die.' 
 ''But now it's younger people, who are more interested in eco-tourism, like rafting and kayaking in the north, or a fun, cosmopolitan, resort destination like Tel Aviv, and in extending to Jordan and Egypt, where they can go trekking and camping in Petra or on a Nile cruise. It's a great family destination.'' 
 She estimates that Isram World received 35 percent more bookings this past summer season than the previous one. 
 Ms. Hart, along with other tour operators and Israeli tourism officials, ascribe the shift to the recent let-up in violence although they wearily acknowledge that the constant prospect of new attacks makes optimism difficult. On Oct. 26, a suicide bomber killed five Israelis at a market in Hadera, a city on the coast. 
 ''I've ridden this roller coaster for a long time,'' said Bob Faucett, a vice president of Unitours, based in Purchase, N.Y., adding that, as of late October, his company had not received any cancellations in response to the bombing. 
 Still terrorist attacks have decreased in the last year, prompting the State Department in April to ease its warning against travel to Israel. The Israeli withdrawal from Gaza in August, which proceeded without catastrophic civil disturbance, has also improved Israel's international image.
 Cruise ships, including Crystal Cruises' luxury ship, the Crystal Serenity, are calling for the first time since the intifada began, and this year, the tourism ministry is expecting the number of tourists to exceed two million for the first time since 2000, though that year's record figures remain out of reach. 
 Some travelers are relieved to be able to visit with less anxiety the same places they frequented even during the worst days of violence.
 ''Before, going to Israel was always so neurotic: 'O.K., I have to be in downtown Jerusalem, but no buses, only cabs,' '' said Aaron Bisman, executive director of JDub Records in New York, who visited Israel for a wedding in August. Mr. Bisman has been in Israel regularly over the last several years, but only for work or family functions. He said that he would return next year for vacation, his first since 2000. 
 ''Finally, it feels quiet enough to go back without the excuses that it's for work or whatever,'' he said. 
 ''We stopped because of the intifada in 2000, even though until then it was a very good year for us,'' said Klaus Dietsch, a spokesman for Studiosus, a German tour agency. ''So when we saw the handshake between Sharon and Abbas, we thought this was a good sign and decided to start again.'' 
 Studiosus scheduled three trips this fall, but demand was so high, it expanded to 11. 
 The Israeli government has undertaken a series of ambitious measures to attract visitors. The Israeli, Palestinian, Egyptian and Jordanian tourism ministries have established high-level contact to synchronize marketing strategies, ease visa issuance and border crossings, and entice foreign travelers with multicountry tours. 
 A planned 40-acre educational center in Capernaum, near the Sea of Galilee, in what is widely thought to be the area where Jesus lived and preached, aims to draw evangelical tourists, mainly from the United States. The tourism ministry has been urging Club Med, which just renovated its Coral Beach resort in Eilat and is contemplating a reconstruction of another in the north, to build a third in the coastal city of Netanya. A proposal from the tourism ministry to build a casino in Eilat, the southern resort near the border with Jordan, is in the works as well -- although current law does not allow casinos.
 ''The tourism industry is one of the easiest to restart after a crisis,'' Avraham Hirchson, the Israeli minister of tourism, said. ''Take Eilat. The commodity is sun and nature. God gave it to us. You don't need to build a new factory.''
 Even if this optimistic assessment is true, it may have a less sunny corollary: when violence erupts, the tourism industry is one of the quickest to suffer. By 2002, more than half of the Israeli tourism work force found itself unemployed, according to Vardit Kaplan, a spokeswoman for the tourism ministry in New York. 
 ''There was no point working in Jerusalem,'' David Ashkenazi, who managed Jerusalem's Olive Tree Hotel until 2001, said. ''There was no one in the hotel.''
 Today, Mr. Ashkenazi is the general manager of the new Grand Court Hotel, the third largest in Jerusalem, with 442 rooms, and the first to open in the city since 2000. The hotel was scheduled for a 2000 opening, but construction halted when the intifada began. 
 ''Everything stood still for three and a half years,'' he said. Building started again in 2004, a rebound year that brought 1.5 million tourists. The Grand Court opened this March with 30 percent occupancy; in October, perhaps partly on account of the Jewish High Holy Days, it was 80 percent full. 
 ''I think people realized that Israel is not the only place in the world with terrorism, and it has given them confidence to come back,'' Mr. Ashkenazi said. 
 Those who overcome their anxiety face a more practical obstacle: a shortage of nonstop flights to Israel, as some airlines, anxious about another downturn, hesitate to establish routes. For instance, only one American carrier, Continental, offers nonstop flights to and from Tel Aviv. A Web search for flights from the New York City area in mid-November found only a total of three nonstops over two days and only one was under $1,000 ($872 on Continental from Newark Liberty). 
 More competition should arrive in late March, when Delta plans to begin daily nonstop flights from Atlanta to Tel Aviv. 
 ''We used to not be able to fill up planes, and now we don't have enough seats,'' said Arie Sommer, Israel's commissioner of tourism to North and South America, noting that, in light of Israel's recent history, ''It's an excellent problem to have.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bonnie Jones, right, a Mormon, and others in the Church of the Holy Sepulcher in Jerusalem, part of a stream of religious tours. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (91%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (91%); LODGING (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TOURISM (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); CRUISES (89%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); RESORTS (73%); ECOTOURISM (73%); HIKING (73%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (72%); RELIGION (72%); TERRORISM (69%); BOMBINGS (68%); MARINE VESSELS (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CRYSTAL CRUISES INC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NILE RIVER (75%) ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JORDAN (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



110 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2938 words

HEADLINE: Can Hollywood Evade The Death Eaters?

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
BY all outward appearances, Warner Brothers Entertainment should be having one of its best years ever. For the 21st year in a row, it is expected to show a profit, propelled by a string of television hits like ''ER,'' ''The O.C.'' and ''Friends,'' which is a hot seller on DVD. Warner has also revitalized its DC Comics movie franchise with the summer hit ''Batman Begins.'' And later this month, it will release ''Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire,'' the fourth installment of a juggernaut that has already brought in $3.7 billion.
 But instead of the popping of Champagne corks, the sound you are likely to hear on the Warner lot is that of a cleaver falling. Executives have been poring over thick binders filled with next year's budget, hoping to cut hundreds of millions in studio expenses. Warner Brothers, the television and film production unit of Time Warner, is anticipating a slowdown in growth in its lucrative home video division. And that, combined with rising costs and uncertainty about new forms of digital distribution, has the studio fretting about its growth prospects. 
On Tuesday, Warner laid off 260 employees, or about 6 percent of its staff of 4,500 in Burbank, Calif., with more job cuts expected in its overseas offices. And the studio is starting to re-evaluate everything from when and where it markets movies to how and what it pays its stars. Indeed, Warner executives met recently with agents at Creative Artists Agency and warned that top-tier actors, directors and producers would have to be flexible on upfront fees or else movies would be harder to make. 
 What makes the upheaval so remarkable is that it is happening at a studio that has long been considered one of the most stable television and movie businesses around. But the challenges facing the division, particularly its movie production unit, Warner Brothers Pictures, reflect a bleak new reality in Hollywood. Film lovers are starting to shun theaters, the threat of digital piracy is growing, and the industry is only beginning to grapple with how to deliver new content for cellphones, video games and other portable devices, like the new video iPod.
 George Clooney, the actor who has a longtime production deal at Warner Brothers Pictures with the director Steven Soderbergh, put it this way: ''If Warner is having its best year and they are going to have cutbacks, what does it mean for the rest of Hollywood?''
 Of course, it doesn't help Warner Brothers that Carl C. Icahn, the billionaire investor, has increased his stake in Time Warner and is pressuring the company's management to bolster the stock price by cutting costs.
 But the most likely answer to Mr. Clooney's question is this: more trouble for an industry that has had its share. NBC Universal, a part of General Electric, said this summer that it would cut $400 million in its film and ailing television businesses. Two other media companies -- Sony and Walt Disney -- recently announced losses in their film divisions. A third, Paramount Pictures, which is owned by Viacom, is still trying to find its way after a management shakeup almost a year ago. And earlier this year, DreamWorks Animation and Pixar Animation Studios reported higher-than-expected DVD movie returns from retailers.
 Both Barry Meyer, the chief executive of Warner Brothers Entertainment, and Alan Horn, its president, said the division's cuts were not mandated by Time Warner in New York. ''We have done it more quietly in the past,'' Mr. Horn said. ''But this time Barry and I said, 'Let's be a little tougher about this.' '' 
 Besides, Mr. Horn said that there was a practical side to the studio's recent corporate soul-scrubbing. ''I don't lose sleep over this, and I'm not nervous,'' he said. ''But the challenge to growth is really daunting. If we grew 10 percent that would be great, but we haven't said we expect a certain rate. It is a healthy exercise to stop and look at what is going out the door.''

Mainstream, With a Twist
 Jeff Robinov has to deal with his share of divas and disasters. 
 Last year, Mr. Robinov, the Warner Brothers Pictures head of production, replaced the director of ''Superman Returns'' after he refused to board a plane to Australia days before filming was to start. A year earlier, Warner took a $25 million hit when it moved the set of ''Troy'' to Mexico from Morocco after studio executives feared that unrest in the Middle East would endanger the cast and crew.
 But that's not what is giving Mr. Robinov fits. It's the amount of time he spends trying to figure out which films will attract moviegoers. The industry is in the midst of a major shift as people increasingly turn to video games, big-screen televisions and the Internet for entertainment; movie attendance in the United States is down 8 percent for the year.
 ''Something is changing in the movie experience,'' Mr. Robinov said in an interview at his office on the Warner lot last month. ''Is it piracy? Is it commercials? Is it the availability of movies? Or are we not creating enough things to drive people out of the home? My biggest fear is having a movie that deserves to be seen, but is not.''
 Three years ago, Mr. Robinov and Mr. Horn, who oversees the movie division, said they would make about 25 movies a year, including at least four so-called event movies with global appeal. The strategy has largely worked. In 2004, the movie division brought in a record $3.41 billion at the worldwide box office, powered by the likes of ''Troy,'' ''Ocean's Twelve'' and ''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.'' Last summer, it scored again with ''Charlie and the Chocolate Factory'' and ''Batman Returns.'' What's more, the studio's two-year-old independent-movie arm also had its first bona fide hit, ''March of the Penguins,'' for which it paid $1.6 million for distribution rights and some voice-overs; the film has brought in $77 million at the domestic box office.
 Mr. Robinov attributed some of Warner's recent success to pairing familiar stories with unexpected choices in directors and actors who, not coincidentally, can be cheaper to hire. With 483 movies released in theaters in 2004, many with similar specials effects and tapping a limited pool of big-name stars, he worried that the industry suffers from too much sameness. As DVD sales growth slows, Warner has begun seeking more partners to help finance films, he said. And Mr. Robinov suggested that the studio might make one or two fewer films each year. ''When revenue projections change, it puts more pressure on a movie,'' he said. ''With profit margins smaller, the movie becomes harder to justify making.''
 Mr. Robinov and Mr. Horn were among the studio's executives who took part in the breakfast meeting at Creative Artists Agency and told agents that, in some cases, it could not afford to pay top talent what they had grown accustomed to. ''My message was, 'Look, we may be asking people to understand the pressures we are under and that it may have implications to what we can pay,' '' Mr. Horn said. 
 For any studio looking for cuts, that is a logical place to start: a $30 million movie can quickly become a $50 million movie or more if a studio hires someone like Julia Roberts. 
 As a result, the kind of deal Warner recently struck with Brad Pitt is starting to become more commonplace. Mr. Pitt agreed to take less money upfront for ''The Assassination of Jesse James,'' a $32 million Western that the actor wanted to make.
 ''We needed help,'' Mr. Robinov said. ''We had to sit down and say, 'To make this movie you have to make financial concessions.' ''
 Of course, those deals can also limit the studio's rewards because they often include profit-sharing. Mr. Clooney and Mr. Pitt earned more cash on ''Ocean's Eleven'' by agreeing to take a percentage of the profits than they would have by getting a big upfront fee.
 Mr. Clooney said he was willing to take a gamble on roles that interested him. His ''Good Night, and Good Luck'' cost $7.5 million and wouldn't have been made if he had demanded a $20 million salary for acting in and directing the movie.
 ''Economically, it is getting harder and harder,'' Mr. Clooney said. ''If studios are forced to pay top dollar, the film gets compromised. You can't get the other actors you want. The edges get knocked off. It is better to participate, because then you get to do the films you want.''

Sell, Sell, Sell
 ''Marketing costs are just skyrocketing, and if we don't address this we are going to put ourselves out of business,'' said Dawn Taubin, the president of Warner Brothers Pictures' domestic theatrical marketing, speaking about the industry.
 Consider this: the average cost to market a film domestically in 2004 was $34 million, roughly half the $64 million average price tag to make one, according to the Motion Picture Association of America. Blockbusters cost even more to market: as much as $60 million domestically and $125 million worldwide. 
 On Wednesday, Time Warner announced that operating income before depreciation and amortization for filmed entertainment -- which includes New Line Cinema, Warner's sister company -- was down 30 percent, in part because of movie marketing costs.
 These are confusing times for marketers like Ms. Taubin, who have found that spending buckets of money on traditional advertising -- including newspapers and television -- doesn't corral moviegoers the way it used to. Teenagers are now more spontaneous about their movie choices, which means that studios have a harder time reaching them through magazines and television. Not surprisingly, more and more young people are relying on the Internet to help them decide what to see; according to the studio's own survey, 30 percent of teenagers said they learned about ''Charlie and the Chocolate Factory'' online. It is conceivable that studios could forsake newspapers altogether someday. 
 ''It's a possibility,'' Ms. Taubin said. ''But it depends on whether there are other forms of advertising to replace it.''
 A shift has already taken place at major studios: last year, their spending fell for newspaper and television ads in the United States and increased for the Internet and trailers. For Warner's part, it combined its domestic home video and theatrical media buying -- which includes television, radio and newspapers -- so it would have the flexibility to adjust marketing campaigns and negotiate better rates. The studio has adopted a similar strategy in Britain and Germany, said Sue Kroll, president of international theatrical marketing.
 But perhaps the biggest driver of changes in marketing is the speed at which DVD's are coming to store shelves. Some DVD's are now arriving in stores less than four months after a movie hits theaters. Instead of creating two campaigns -- one for the theater and another for home video -- Warner is considering whether to consolidate its marketing operations under one umbrella. 
 ''Clearly, it makes a lot of sense to create a cohesive marketing plan,'' said Mr. Meyer, the chief executive.
 Many analysts tend to agree. ''Warner has to come to grips on its spending,'' said Richard Bilotti, a media analyst at Morgan Stanley. ''They don't need all that to open a film when Wal-Mart is more important.'' 
 Indeed, Ms. Taubin said the studio was reviewing costs, even those for the oh-so-important awards season. But that also poses a challenge as competitors are more than willing to foot the bill for an Oscar campaign to snag a favored actor or director away from Warner Brothers.
 ''The first phase of a campaign can be helpful because it can bring people's attention to a movie,'' Ms. Taubin said. ''But we've all looked at an ad and said, 'What? Are they kidding?' I've even done that.''

Just Staying Home
 Here is a statistic from Time Warner's Web site that shows the force of Warner Brothers in the home video market: for six of the last eight years, the studio has been No. 1 in DVD and VHS sales and rentals, with a market share of 19.7 percent in 2004.
 That is why Hollywood was stunned when Warner Brothers ousted the president of its home video unit two weeks ago and folded it into a newly reconfigured digital distribution division along with online operations, wireless and video games, and emerging technology. For many analysts, it signaled a radical shift -- that in an increasingly digital world, DVD's would no longer be the dominant way the studio distributed content.
 In the 1990's, Warner was credited with invigorating the DVD format, forcefully marketing its vast library of already released movies and, later, popular television shows to bolster the studio's bottom line. Days before he was replaced, James Cardwell, the president of the home video unit, said, ''We've grown accustomed to sales growth rates of 20 percent a year.''
 The future does not look so promising. Warner's DVD sales growth is expected to slip to a single digit in 2006, Mr. Cardwell said. But even then Mr. Horn is cautious about how high -- or low -- that number will be. ''Much of this is related to new releases and I can't tell,'' he said. 
 So why the slowdown now? Some analysts suggest that studios should have been better at forecasting demand. Late adopters of the DVD technology are more likely to rent than buy DVD's, while consumers who bought DVD players early on already own many of the discs they want. The market is flooded with products. According to the DVD Release Report, an industry newsletter, 50,936 titles have already been released on DVD, with an additional 1,055 to be released by the end of next March.
 ''Home video gave us a cushion that made it easier to grow,'' Mr. Horn said. ''Now that it has leveled off, we don't have the cushion. It's very hard to grow profitability when you are at capacity.''
 Kevin Tsujihara, the new president of Warner's Home Entertainment Group, said one reason home video is now a part of the new digital group is that the interests of established clients, like Wal-Mart or movie theater owners, need to be balanced with those of consumers, who want content on demand. ''There are certain constituencies that need to be part of the discussions,'' he said. ''It needs to be managed and explained to established clients like Wal-Mart to preserve the ecosystem.''

Chasing a Moving Target
 Don't tell Dan Fellman, Warner's president of domestic theatrical distribution, that moviegoers are fed up with high ticket prices, jammed parking lots or too-long commercials at theaters. ''The situation works just fine; it's really not broken,'' said Mr. Fellman, swatting at the air in his office as if shooing away invisible critics. ''I hate to use the old clich?; but every household has a kitchen, yet on Saturday night it's still hard to get a restaurant reservation.''
 But clich?s are clich?s for a reason. Hollywood's image of Saturday date night or the family piling into the car for an evening at the multiplex is quickly changing in a wired world. Flat-screen high-definition televisions offer a first-rate theater experience. And consumers are already watching movies or television shows on hand-held devices, like the PlayStation Portable or the video iPod, which can play past episodes of Disney shows including ''Desperate Housewives.'' 
 Indeed, consumers' quick adoption of new technology has much of Hollywood scrambling to stay ahead in a digital universe. In consolidating Warner's digital distribution efforts into one division, Mr. Meyer, the chief executive, hopes that the studio can exploit opportunities that offer the greatest growth potential, including online games and wireless content.
 Still, the studio's first order of business is to protect Warner's theatrical releases, despite pressure from some filmmakers and consumers to offer movies simultaneously over the Internet, on DVD or through video-on-demand. 
 Movies earn money in several ways: first at the theater, then on DVD and later through sales to network and cable television. But with digital downloads or video-on-demand, studios increase their ability to offer consumers a menu of movies, television shows and games at different times and for a variety of prices. The trick is to explore new, potentially lucrative ways of digital delivery while keeping theater owners and DVD retailers happy.
 ''The business is made much more complex by windows and audiences that are fragmenting,'' Mr. Meyer said. ''The story for the next 10 years is how content is going to adapt. You won't find your audience in any one place anymore.''
 Warner is already developing a short animated program based on ''The O.C.'' for cellphones. It has been quietly producing video games for more than a year, although the business has yet to take off. And Mr. Tsujihara, who is overseeing Warner's digital efforts, said international television clients and traditional retailers alike are already asking to extend rights on programming to video-on-demand, pay-per-view and digital downloads in one package.
 But Warner, unlike Disney, is still skeptical about offering its movies and television shows for the video iPod or other portable devices. One concern is that the content will be easier to copy and share, compounding the problems the studio is already experiencing with piracy.
 ''I don't know if we are ready to do that,'' Mr. Meyer said. ''I want to see how the Disney experiment works, how it affects the television affiliates and video retailers. A lot of people are affected by it. We want to be responsive, but everything has the overlay that we don't want to put anything out that has a negative effect on how we manage our digital rights.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: WARNER'S CHALLENGE -- Films like ''Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire'' are expected to help keep Warner Brothers Entertainment profitable. But Barry Meyer, below left, the C.E.O., , and Alan Horn, president, are cutting costs as the industry confronts changes in movie-viewing habits. (Photo by Steve Goldstein for The New York Times
Murray Close/Warner Brothers Pictures [top])(pg. 1)
''My biggest fear is having a movie that deserves to be seen, but is not,'' said Jeff Robinov of Warner Brothers, seated at left. Other executives include, standing from left, Kevin Tsujihara, Veronika Kwan-Rubinek, Dawn Taubin, Dan Fellman and, seated, Sue Kroll. (Photo by Steve Goldstein for The New York Times)
A scene from ''Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.'' Warner Brothers said many teenagers first learned about the film online. (Photo by Peter Mountain/Warner Brothers Pictures)(pg. 8)Chart: ''Warner's Global Reach''Warner Brothers' top international film releases so far this yearAlexander *Tim Burton's Corpse Bride <7>The Dukes of HazzardHouse of WaxMiss Congeniality 2The Island +ConstantineBatman BeginsOcean's Twelve *Charlie and the Chocolate FactoryGraph tracks international and domestic box office revenue for above mentioned films.* Released last year
 also includes 2004 revenue.+ Not released by Warner domestically.<7> Still playing.(Source by Warner Brothers)(pg. 8)Chart: ''Overseas Reliance''Box-office revenue outside the United States and Canada has become increasingly important to Warner Brothers, accounting for almost two thirds of the total last year.Warner Brothers total box office revenueGraph tracks domestic (includes U.S. and Canada '05 as of Oct. 9) and international ('05 as of Oct. 12) box office revenue since 2000.(Source by Warner Brothers)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); LAYOFFS (87%); MOBILE MEDIA (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); BUDGETS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%); CREATIVE ARTISTS AGENCY INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS711110 THEATER COMPANIES & DINNER THEATERS (54%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (65%); GEORGE CLOONEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (84%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



111 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: INTERVIEW -- WITH JOSEPH H. HOLLAND; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: A Developer's Rocky Quest To Revitalize Harlem

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
NINE years ago, Joseph H. Holland was on the verge of bankruptcy. While some former classmates from Harvard Law School had settled into six- or seven-figure incomes, his investments in Harlem businesses that aimed at helping the downtrodden was evaporating.
 ''In all my zeal and vision, I had pressed on too quickly, made some unwise investments without really understanding what it took to carry things and to make a success, and it all came crashing down on my head,'' said the mild-mannered Mr. Holland, now 48, who as part of a 23-year effort to revitalize Harlem has lately turned to developing condominiums there.
As his investments floundered nine years ago, he was also drawing criticism in his high-profile job as New York State housing commissioner. Some in the administration of Gov. George E. Pataki did not support Mr. Holland's efforts to underwrite loans and grants for housing, he said. And as ''the most visible minority member of the governor's early cabinet,'' Mr. Holland said, ''some in the African-American community were threatened by my rising stature and power, and started criticizing and attacking me as a way to get to the governor.'' He resigned in 1996. 
 The criticism was a rude awakening for Mr. Holland, an upper-middle-class African-American who had shunned corporate law to work with Harlem's homeless and drug-dependent -- a decision that disappointed his rags-to-renown father, Jerome Holland, who believed that his son should forge his own way in the world first. 
 One of 10 children born to a poor gardener in upstate New York, the elder Mr. Holland paid his way through Cornell University by shoveling coal in the basement of a fraternity house, became an all-American football player and went on to become president of two colleges, ambassador to Sweden and the first black member of the New York Stock Exchange.
 At first, Mr. Holland followed in his father's roomy footsteps, attending Cornell, where he was named an Academic All-American football player. Rather than trying professional football, he determined that Harvard Law School offered a better route to public service.
 ''As successful as my father was,'' ''he always found time to give back to the community.'' Mr. Holland said. ''He was my hero.''
 Nonetheless, his father wanted him ''to work on Wall Street and make contacts and money first, then go help people.'' he said.
 Ignoring the advice, Mr. Holland and a law school classmate moved to Harlem in 1982. Harlem was ''at a low point as a result of years of abandonment,'' he said. 
 Mr. Holland poured his energy and idealism into a variety of pursuits, supported at first by his part-time real estate law practice, which operated out of the former Hotel Theresa. 
 ''Joe was really the first person to teach me about charity,'' said State Senator Michael A. L. Balboni, a Nassau Republican, who, with Mr. Holland, was a young staff member in Albany in the mid-1980's. ''He's a believer in the big idea. People talk about it, but he lives it, in the faith of the individual.''
 Mr. Holland is as low-key as the car he drives, a tan Chrysler Concorde whose interior bears ample evidence of his three active young children. After the third child arrived in 2000, he reluctantly left a two-bedroom apartment in the Sugar Hill neighborhood of Harlem for a house in Yonkers, but he maintains an elegant one-man office nearby, on the parlor floor of his sister's brownstone.
 In the decade after graduating from Harvard Law in 1982, Mr. Holland started and ran a 15-bed homeless shelter in a church basement, founded a drug rehabilitation program and acquired a travel agency. He also opened the first Ben & Jerry's store in Harlem and a soul food restaurant, staffing both with homeless-shelter residents.
 Along the way, he was ordained as a minister but determined that he was ''more effective as an attorney, a businessman and an activist,'' he said. He wrote two professionally produced plays (one about Booker T. Washington, the second on homelessness); he acted in one of them as a homeless man. And after deciding that Democrats weren't doing enough to revitalize Harlem, Mr. Holland became a Republican like his father. 
 An unsuccessful run for the State Senate in 1985 led to a two-year stint as counsel to the Senate's Housing Committee; he split his time between Albany and Harlem, overseeing his many community endeavors.
 But by 1994, some of the seeds of his idealism were bearing bitter fruit. The restaurant and the ice cream shop staffed by shelter residents, for example, never turned a profit. ''We had problems with guys getting to work on time and staying through their shift,'' he said. ''We had problems with money disappearing. I was a bit na?ve in not anticipating the extent of those problems.'' 
 A second call to Albany, in 1995 to be housing commissioner, initially proved to be a welcome detour. But with things souring in the state capital and in his commercial ventures, and with new responsibilities as a husband and father, he resigned.
 Still, he said, he refused to file for bankruptcy. ''I decided I would work my way through the challenges,'' he said. ''I did that with great difficulty. I learned the importance of perseverance.'' He joined the White Plains office of a large law firm, Wilson, Elser, Moskowitz, Edelman & Dicker, where he worked as a partner for two years, helping to build the firm's real estate practice while shoring up his own finances.
 By 1998, he had seen in Harlem ''a critical mass of people fixing up old buildings.'' He added, ''It was clear to me there was going to be a real opportunity to do real estate development, and I had lots of contacts.''
 He found a niche that he thought would mesh all his goals: he would aid churches and nonprofit organizations by developing their underused properties, and encourage successful African-Americans to invest in blighted neighborhoods. 
 He quit the law firm in 1998 and subsidized his transition to real estate developer through paid motivational speaking and by consulting on issues of homelessness. 
 But like previous roads, this one proved unexpectedly steep. 
 ''Joe felt that if he could encourage the participation of high-net-worth African-Americans in the communities they had come from, that this could carry over to many of the major cities in the U.S.,'' said Lew Futterman, a partner in the development company, Uptown Partners, that would eventually be formed by Mr. Holland. ''We spent over three years looking for investors in that area and we were not successful, which was very disappointing. They did not have faith in the economic future of the communities they had come from.''
 For Uptown Partners' first venture -- the redevelopment of a site on 129th Street and Lenox Avenue, where a half-built church had been abandoned two decades earlier -- the $9 million equity portion of the $40 million development budget came from a more traditional player in real estate: the developer Jay Furman and his company, the RD Management Corporation.
 The Lenox, a 77-unit luxury condominium building on the same block that held the homeless shelter Mr. Holland operated, is scheduled for completion next summer. About a third of the mostly two-bedroom units, priced slightly less than the market rate of $600 a square foot, have sold since sales began in early September. (So far, about 60 percent of the buyers have been African-American, Hispanic or Asian.) 
 The deal provides that the Pentecostal Faith Church, which owned the property, will construct a new home for itself on land it retained adjacent to the towers. It will also buy back at cost 11,000 square feet of retailing space on the condominium building's ground level. 
 A second Uptown Partners project, just breaking ground at 120th Street and Fifth Avenue opposite Marcus Garvey Park, involves property owned by a different church. For this development, called Fifth on the Park, a parking lot adjacent to the Bethel Gospel Assembly is being converted into a four-story sanctuary for the church, topped by a 155-unit luxury condominium tower owned by Uptown Partners. The developer will also build a 50-unit rental building there for the church to own. The church will offer the units at below-market rates. 
 ''The two projects we have right now are gentrification without displacement,'' Mr. Holland said. ''They're built on vacant land and they will provide a benefit to the community.''
 He said his mixed successes over the years had taught him the importance of building the right team instead of flying solo -- and of the need to stay focused.
 ''I think I've had to learn the hard way because I took the road less traveled,'' he said. ''I came to Harlem when it was not in vogue. It was a faith walk to some extent.
 ''I learned by trial and error, but I'm at the point now in my career where I've learned a lot about business and that to be a successful businessman you have to have focus. And my priority focus over the last four years has been building my real estate company.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph H. Holland is developing the Lenox, a 77-unit luxury condo building at Lenox Avenue and 129th Street, at a site where a half-built church had been abandoned. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (67%); SPORTS (67%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



112 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Today's Energy Stocks May Well Be Tomorrow's

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
A FUNNY thing happens to markets that seem able to move in only one direction: they start heading the other way. Oil and other energy commodities are the latest noteworthy examples.
 Since peaking two months ago, the price of crude oil has fallen as much as 17 percent, and traded contracts for natural gas and unleaded gasoline have declined substantially, too. Shares of energy companies have been dragged lower, too; some are down by more than 20 percent.
Shareholders may wish to take their profits before the prices erode further, but many investment advisers make a persuasive case for holding firm. In this view, cyclical ups and downs will continue, but they are mere blips that do not fundamentally alter a very long-term upward trend in prices for energy commodities and stocks.
 Demand for energy keeps rising while new sources of supply grow scarcer, a reality that is unlikely to change, some fund managers and market strategists say. Fossil fuels will eventually become too expensive for everyday use, but there will be good money to be made from producing whatever power source comes next, they predict. And many of the producers, they say, will be the same companies pumping oil today. The energy industry's knack for playing a long game, plotting strategy based on assumptions of economic, political and technological developments many decades ahead, makes energy stocks worth holding onto, the investment advisers say. 
 But they debate the best way to benefit from the industry's farsightedness. Some make pitches for the biggest of the big, like Exxon Mobil, an outstanding stock over the last 30 years, or for oil service specialists like Schlumberger, while others prefer more obscure exploration companies.
 ''Over the near term, I think it's going to be kind of a struggle because we have a lot of uncertainty in the marketplace in terms of G.D.P., consumer demand, geopolitical considerations, rising interest rates,'' James D. Wineland, manager of the $4 billion Waddell & Reed Advisors Core Investment fund, said of the sector's share-price performance.
 But he pointed to the continuing imbalance of supply and demand and added, ''If we look beyond that, I think there's a huge future for energy stocks because this is an issue that isn't going away.'' He has made a big bet on that future, placing about 20 percent of the fund's assets in energy, double the market weighting.
 David Spika, investment strategist at Westwood Holdings in Dallas, an institutional portfolio manager with large energy holdings, has similar hopes for the sector.
 ''Even though we have seen a significant decline in crude, the structural supply-demand imbalance remains,'' he said. ''Obviously you have to expect corrections from time to time.''
 A chronic imbalance would set energy apart from other commodities, whose prices tend to fall over time when adjusted for inflation, said Jeremy Grantham, chief strategist at the portfolio manager Grantham, Mayo & Van Otterloo. While ephemeral factors can cause cyclical gluts and scarcities of commodities, new production methods help to ensure that supply outstrips demand over the long haul -- except in the case of energy, Mr. Grantham has come to believe.
 ''We're gung-ho about regression to the mean, so when prices rise a lot, we are expecting to go short and underweight,'' he said about most commodities and the stocks of their producers. Since the shortages of the 1970's, the average price of a barrel of oil has been $36 in today's dollars. Mr. Grantham said he expects the average price to keep climbing as what is left of the earth's supply of oil becomes harder to extract.
 ''I'm offering oil as an exception to the principle'' of mean reversion, he said. ''Having hunted high and low and never found a major asset class that went through a paradigm shift, I think oil is it.''
 If a paradigm shift is occurring, the investment masses are barely noticing. Tim Guinness, who manages the Guinness Atkinson Global Energy fund, among the best-performing equity funds this year, with a return of 61.4 percent through Thursday, points out that energy stocks as a group have doubled since crude oil reached a trough in 1998 at less than $10 a barrel.
 At the bottom, he recalled, energy accounted for a mere 6 percent of the valuation of Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, compared with 27 percent at the peak of the oil boom in the early 1980's. Today, with crude around $60, energy accounts for less than 10 percent of the index.
 One reason for the relatively underwhelming move in the stocks is that the run-up in energy commodities has been accompanied by higher production costs. ''Margins have expanded, but not to the degree you might think,'' said Mr. Spika at Westwood.
 As oil continues to be depleted, Mr. Guinness said, there will be ''huge one-off gains that the oil companies will enjoy from the increasing value of the reserves they have at the moment.'' The downside, he said, is that oil from new discoveries ''will increasingly be in countries where the governments won't let them own it.''
 One way for investors to get the best of both situations is to hold shares in smaller companies that develop oil and gas fields in ''mature, safer places'' like Texas and the Gulf of Mexico, he said. Some examples he mentioned are Devon Energy, Apache, Anadarko Petroleum, Chesapeake Energy and Newfield Exploration.
 Mr. Guinness also likes some of the big integrated energy companies, especially Chevron Texaco, ConocoPhilips and Occidental Petroleum. But he steers investors away from the industry leader.
 ''Exxon Mobil trades at a premium multiple over the independents and smaller integrateds,'' he said. ''I think this means investors should not invest in it. Since 1989 it is actually the weakest performer in growing earnings per share among the big oils. There is no clear evidence that Exxon Mobil is able to grow earnings faster.''
 Mr. Spika is also a fan of the explorers. ''We don't think all energy stocks are created equal,'' he said. ''We like the ones that are expanding production growth.'' Among the exploration companies, he said, Apache is a favorites.
 THE energy sector is big enough to accommodate great differences of opinion, even among enthusiastic supporters. While Mr. Guinness's list of preferred integrated oil companies includes almost anything but Exxon Mobil, that company is Mr. Wineland's top choice.
 ''It's a pretty phenomenally performing stock,'' he said. ''The company has about as good a management as there is in the industry in terms of doing the right thing, a combination of growing its business and taking care of shareholders. They're smart guys, astute at investing in projects that make money.''
 Among the major oil companies, Mr. Wineland said he also likes BP.
 Mr. Guinness says he has been avoiding drillers and makers of drilling equipment because ''I happen to think they're all quite expensive.'' But Mr. Wineland is happy to have them.
 ''We have fairly substantial investment in the oil service side,'' he said. ''The outlook is awfully positive as far out as I can see.'' He especially likes Baker Hughes, Smith International, Schlumberger and Weatherford International. Of course, there is no way to know how the energy industry's future will play out. But Mr. Wineland says he does not expect the majors to sit on their hands as the world runs out of oil.'' Most of these companies will identify themselves as energy companies, not oil companies,'' he predicted. ''They are all aware that they will have to move over time slowly into other things. All the majors will be involved in whatever comes next -- fuel cell technology, hydrogen. The infrastructure involved in moving us down the highway -- as it evolves, these companies will evolve with it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Matt Siocum/Associated Press)Chart: ''Paradigm Shift?''Since the oil shortages of the early 1970's, the average price of oil has been much higher, in general, than the average for the previous 97 years.Graph tracks inflation-adjusted price of oil (West Texas intermediate crude spot price in 2005 dollars) from the 1880's through July 7, 2005.(Source by GMO [Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo & Company])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); TRENDS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (90%); WADDELL & REED FINANCIAL INC (52%); WADDELL & REED INC (52%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (90%); WDR (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (51%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



113 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank: OCTOBER 31-NOVEMBER 4; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: Strong Corporate Earnings Bolster the Market

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market had its biggest weekly gain since September, propelled by strong corporate earnings and optimism about the state of the economy. 
 The one daily market decline came on Tuesday, when Federal Reserve policy makers raised short-term interest rates to 4 percent. They issued a statement saying that the economic problems caused by recent hurricanes and higher energy prices were temporary -- suggesting to many investors that interest rate increases would continue. That cast a pall over the market.
 But on Wednesday, the market focused on the profits of the nation's big corporations. In the third quarter, operating earnings for the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index were 12 percent higher than in the period a year earlier, the 14th consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth, according to S.& P. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 127.99 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 10,530.76. The S.& P. 500 climbed 21.73 points, or 1.8 percent, to close at 1,220.14. The Nasdaq composite index jumped 79.55 points, or 3.8 percent, to close at 2,169.43. 
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note increased to 4.66 percent from 4.56 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.MerckNYSE: MRKMerck won the second Vioxx-related case to go to trial. Legal experts said the verdict could slow the flood of lawsuits against the company. The jury also concluded that Merck had properly marketed the drug.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $29.22WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.10%EST. '05 P/E: 11.67Knight RidderNYSE: KRIThe newspaper publisher came under pressure from two of its largest shareholders, Private Capital and Harris Associates, which are calling for the company to be sold.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $61.48WEEK'S CHANGE: +13.29%EST. '05 P/E: 17.45ExpediaNNM: EXPEThe online travel agent said that its third-quarter earnings soared 41 percent, soundly beating Wall Street's targets. The results were helped by a 16 percent rise in sales and stronger bookings at its Hotels.com site.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $22.73WEEK'S CHANGE: +21.03%EST. '05 P/E: 19.49Placer DomeNYSE: PDGThe Barrick Gold Corporation offered to buy out Placer Dome, a rival Canadian mining company, for $9.2 billion in cash and stock. The deal would create the world's largest gold producer.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $19.46WEEK'S CHANGE: +17.87%EST. '05 P/E: 69.25Lions Gate EntertainmentNYSE: LGFThe movie studio's psychological thriller ''Saw II'' made $30.5 million at the box office in the film's opening weekend, surpassing the opening weekend of the studio's ''Fahrenheit 9/11.''FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $10.00WEEK'S CHANGE: +12.23%EST. '05 P/E: 34.13WebMDNNM: WBMDThe health care information company reported third-quarter net income of $4.12 million, or 9 cents a share, which was down 13 percent from $4.76 million, or 10 cents a share, in the same period last year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.36WEEK'S CHANGE: -6.27%EST. '05 P/E: --Las Vegas SandsNYSE: LVSThe hotel and gambling company said that it swung from a third-quarter loss last year to a profit in this year's period, helped by strong results at its Venetian Casino Resort and Sands Macao properties.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $37.66WEEK'S CHANGE: +13.74%EST. '05 P/E: 34.08AbgenixNNM: ABGXThe biotechnology company said Panitumumab, an experimental drug that it developed with Amgen to combat colon cancer, worked better than expected during a large human trial.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $12.86WEEK'S CHANGE: +25.71%EST. '05 P/E: --(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



114 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: For Rent: My Yacht. I'll Throw In The Jacuzzi.

BYLINE: By CATHERINE M. ALLCHIN

 BODY:
IT is said that owning a boat is like throwing money into the sea. For many owners of $20 million or $30 million yachts, economizing may not be top of mind. But some owners of these luxurious superyachts -- boats more than 100 feet long -- are increasingly inviting other wealthy vacationers to help pay the bills. 
 Yacht owners can recover most or all of the money they spend on boat maintenance and operations by renting their floating resorts to celebrities and others. These clients may pay as much as $300,000 or $400,000 a week for an exclusive luxury cruise.
This weekend, at the Fort Lauderdale International Boat Show in Florida, sailors and yacht lovers from around the world are comparing the industry's latest and greatest goods. More than 1,400 boats, from 18 feet to 208 feet long, are to be offered for sale or charter, said Andrew Doole, vice president of Show Management, which runs the show. He expects that nearly a half-billion dollars will change hands at the event. 
 Industry specialists say the market is booming for yachts 150 feet or longer, with demand far exceeding availability. While owners and brokers do not readily disclose sales figures, Robert Moran, president of Moran Yacht and Ship, a yacht broker in Fort Lauderdale, estimates the worldwide market at $3 billion a year for new construction of such yachts. Mr. Doole says the number of big boats displayed at the Fort Lauderdale show has quadrupled in 10 years. 
 Operating costs for a 150-foot custom yacht can range from $1.2 million to $1.6 million a year, Mr. Moran said. To help cover such expenses, as many as 500 owners of superyachts rent their boats to others, said Bob Saxon, president of Camper & Nicholsons USA, which services, sells and manages charters for the owners. Camper & Nicholsons, a unit of the Rodriguez Group of France, manages 120 yachts, from 80 to 350 feet, in its worldwide fleet, with weekly rates of $20,000 to $325,000, not including expenses like those for fuel, food, docking fees and tips for the crew. Owners renting their boats for 8 to 10 weeks a year can generally recoup most, if not all, of their operating costs. 
 Many owners with successful charter businesses are able to deduct chartering expenses from other income sources at tax time. But these advantages may apply only if the owner demonstrates intent to operate a profitable business and limits his personal use of the boat. 
 For the renters, the accommodations can certainly be luxurious. A superyacht renting for about $150,000 a week may include four staterooms with marble bathrooms and a spacious master stateroom, with his-and-hers dressing rooms, a Jacuzzi, a sitting area and a study. Many yachts offer a gym, a movie theater and bars. Guests can use the yacht's gear to go kayaking, scuba diving or to ride a motorized water scooter. Or, by using the speedboat that comes with most yachts, they can go fishing or water-skiing. 
 Longer boats, in the 400-foot range, may rent for up to $700,000 a week. They may offer accommodations for up to 60 people and come with extras like a swimming pool, bowling alley, discotheque, helipad, beauty salon and children's playroom.
 Charter rates have increased by a third in the last four years because of high demand, said Mr. Moran, who spent 15 years as a captain of a variety of yachts before he began his company, which manages sales, charters and new yacht construction projects for clients around the world. ''The rich are getting richer, and the number of quality yachts is limited,'' he said. ''I've never seen business as strong as it is today.''
 Mr. Saxon of Camper & Nicholsons advises owners and brokers about the ingredients needed to create a successful charter business. ''Assuming one wishes to capitalize on the charter income potential, the old rule 'bigger is better' applies,'' he said. He said an owner needed a first-rate crew. ''One of the most common mistakes I see,'' he said, ''is that an owner who has just dished out a ton of money to buy a yacht will try to cut expenses by hiring less-than-quality crew members.'' 
 A veteran boat owner, Herb Chambers of Old Lyme, Conn., hired Camper & Nicholsons to run the charter business for his formidable 188-foot Excellence III. The weekly charter rate is $385,000. He is able to rent it for about 10 weeks a year, which covers his $3 million to $3.5 million in annual operating costs plus the 15 percent broker's fee. Mr. Chambers says his costs are greater than those of a typical 150-foot boat because his boat is bigger, of higher quality and better maintained. 
 Mr. Chambers, 63, who owns a network of car dealerships, is now having a 257-foot boat built at Abeking & Rasmussen, a German shipbuilder, and hopes to launch it in 2008. 
 ''You're not making money chartering, but you can cover most or all of your operating costs and keep the crew busy,'' he said. ''The real profit opportunity, though, comes when you sell the boat,'' he said, adding that the value of the Excellence III has risen 50 percent since he bought it four years ago.
 In 25 years of renting his yachts, he said he had experienced no accidents or damage. ''There is no downside,'' he said.
 Others, however, consider scheduling a major difficulty, because owners must plan their own travel around the charter operation. Holidays like Christmas and New Year's Day are predictably popular. Mr. Chambers, who says his schedule is ''flexible,'' explains that charters of his yacht bring in $770,000 in those two holiday weeks. ''I call that a great payday,'' he said. 
 He visits the boat a few times a year, always checking on the quality of the food and service when he does, ''just as you would in a hotel.''
 Guests on the Excellence III are greeted on arrival with a bottle of Cristal Champagne. Later, perhaps, they climb to the top deck to soak in a Jacuzzi where rose petals dance on the water's surface. ''We try to give people a great experience,'' Mr. Chambers said. ''The crew has to be positive, bright-eyed and able to anticipate all the guests' desires. And you need an over-the-moon chef.'' 
 MR. SAXON says a crew can make or break a charter experience. ''A fabulous crew can overcome many of a boat's shortcomings and can entice clients to become repeat customers,'' he added.
 Not surprisingly, a great crew doesn't come cheap. On a 150-foot boat, the captain would earn up to $175,000 a year, Mr. Moran said. The largest line item in a yacht's budget is salaries and health benefits, which run about $535,000 annually for the typical crew of 10 on a 150-foot boat, he said.
 When a boat is not on a charter cruise, an owner must pay for his own fuel and docking fees. Jim Vincent, who owns a 158-foot Italian-built CRN, says his costs change, based on fuel prices and international currency rates. Mr. Vincent, the retired chairman and chief executive of Biogen, the biotech company that is now Biogen Idec, lives in Weston, Mass., and charters his boat, the Kanoloa, for $195,000 a week. Filling up the Kanoloa's diesel fuel tanks -- which hold 32,000 gallons -- would have cost about $65,000 last month. His boat is used for charters in the Caribbean in the winter and the Mediterranean in the summer. 
 ''I don't run into too many boat owners who don't care about the expenses,'' Mr. Vincent said. ''If you're not able to use it much, I don't know why you wouldn't charter, unless you just want to throw money in the wind.'' Or the sea.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The 188-foot Excellence III owned by Herb Chambers of Old Lyme, Conn. The weekly charter rate for the yacht is $385,000.Chart: ''QUICK READ''Following are some possible annual costs for operating a 150-foot charter yacht.Salaries and health benefits for crew: $535,000.Repairs, maintenance and boat supplies: $210,000.Fuel: $150,000.Boat insurance: $150,000.Management and marketing services: $110,000.Food for crew, owners and guests: $80,000.Champagne and flowers for guests: $60,000.Satellite communications for television, telephone and Internet access: $20,000.Uniforms for crew: $18,000.(Source by Camper & Nicholsons USA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CRUISES (78%); BOAT DEALERS (78%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (78%); WATER SPORTS (73%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); SCUBA DIVING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RODRIGUEZ GROUP SA (53%); CAMPER & NICHOLSONS MARINA INVESTMENTS LTD (53%)

TICKER: ROD (PAR) (53%); CNMI (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713930 MARINAS (53%); NAICS336612 BOAT BUILDING (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); SIC4493 MARINAS (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



115 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; LIFE'S WORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: The Person Behind the Office Image

BYLINE: By Lisa Belkin. 
This column about the intersection of jobs and personal lives appears every other week. E-mail: Belkin@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
FEW of us ever bring our true selves to work. We bring adapted and arranged versions, edited to fit the job. Our dress tends to reflect the rules of the workplace, written and not. We don't talk of our families nearly as often as we think about them. Our hobbies, our problems and our health are subjects generally left at home. We are someone else in the office: a flattened, incomplete, wan but professional version of ourselves. 
 The result, possibly, is workplace harmony, but at a cost. If we are not bringing our true selves to work, a recent study suggests, and if we are judging one another by superficial constructs rather than three-dimensional connections, then we are cheating the workplace and ourselves. 
''A 360-degree look at a worker's life would uncover all sorts of leadership energies and potential that remain unseen because no one is asking and no one is telling,'' says Sylvia Ann Hewlett, president of the Center for Work-Life Policy, an organization that studies obstacles to professional women and members of minority groups. 
 Ms. Hewlett is the founder of the Hidden Brain Drain Task Force, whose most recent report, sponsored by Unilever, General Electric and Time Warner, is about how minority professionals are not given credit for the lives they lead outside of work -- lives filled with leadership training that never translates into the workplace. 
 Minority workers, particularly minority women, are more likely to have such roles outside of work, the task force data indicates. Twenty-five percent of highly educated African-American women professionals are active leaders in their religious communities, compared with 16 percent of white men. Forty-one percent are involved in social outreach activities, compared with 32 percent of white men, and 25 percent act as mentors, tutors and Big Sisters, compared with 14 percent of their white counterparts. 
 Ella L. Bell, an associate professor of organization at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth and a member of the task force, says these numbers codify a long tradition of giving back in African-American culture. ''It is part of our history; it is part of our legacy; it is part of the way we were socialized and how we keep the African-American community surviving,'' she says. ''If you get into any position of power it is your duty, and I mean that in the deepest sense, to use that power to help those who come up after you.''
 In her own life, growing up in the 1960's, she said: ''I had a constellation of 'aunties' that were no relation to my mother or father. One made sure that whenever she traveled, I went with her. Mrs. White, my Girl Scout leader, taught me etiquette, creative writing, and encouraged me to dream. Mrs. Ford, a guidance counselor -- not at my school, but she lived in the neighborhood -- helped me get into college. My own guidance counselor told me that I could be a secretary.'' 
 Now Ms. Bell is auntie to four goddaughters. She holds a book club with them, helps with their school projects and takes them to New York to see the theater and a bit of the world. ''I talk about it, I write about it,'' she says, but adds that she is the exception, having attained enough stature and security at work that she feels safe there in sharing news of her activities. 
 In an article in The Harvard Business Review this month, Ms. Hewlett argues that minority women keep this part of their lives to themselves because they pour volunteer energies into outlets that are not traditionally accepted by management. ''The focus has been on activities that have long been sanctioned by white male executives,'' she writes, ''United Way drives, symphony orchestra sponsorships and sporting events.'' 
 Most companies, she says, ''do not bother to note the kind of pursuit that Stephanie, a bright young African-American manager, is involved in: running an award-winning Girl Scout troop in a homeless shelter.'' 
 I interviewed the woman Ms. Hewlett identified simply as Stephanie. A manager at one of the companies who sponsored the study, she says she has never found a relevant reason to mention her outside activities to her bosses. She fears that the idea of an African-American woman working at a homeless shelter would ''reinforce stereotypes they already have'' of minorities. 
 The solution, Ms. Hewlett writes, is for companies to ask employees for ''a 360-degree r?sum?'' where it is clear that the experiences of all parts of your life can be valued at work. And, says Ms. Bell, it would help if, while managers are slowly revamping such policies, employees would quietly begin talking to one another. 
 ''Right now we all have half-conversations,'' she says, of the partial personas we bring to work. ''You ask me how my kids are, you ask me if I have a nice weekend. But we never really talk.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Randall Enos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (87%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (78%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (77%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (77%); WOMEN (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); MANAGER TRAINING (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNILEVER PLC/NV (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

TICKER: UNIA (AMS) (55%); UNA (BIT) (55%); UNA (AMS) (55%); UN (NYSE) (55%); ULVR (LSE) (55%); UL (NYSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



116 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: For High-Level Career Advice, Some Job Seekers Go to Church

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
Mary Conley Eggert, a sales and public relations executive in Oak Park, Ill., meets regularly with friends from church or from previous jobs to discuss career strategies and business opportunities. Usually their meetings start with prayer.
 In March, Ms. Eggert's position with a high-tech company ended. Over prayer with her networking friends, she determined that God wanted her to do some soul-searching rather than job-searching. ''I felt God didn't want me to rush,'' she said.
She spent the next six weeks at home on a kind of personal retreat. In June, feeling ''quieted down enough'' to job-hunt, she applied for -- and landed -- a public relations position at another high-tech company.
 Ms. Eggert acknowledged that her decision to postpone her job search might strike people of a secular bent as irrational. 
 ''God has been responsible for the last four jobs I've had,'' she said. ''God is the best executive recruiter in the universe.''
 As the traditional divide blurs between religious and civic life in America, the workplace has become less secular. Nearly a decade ago, welfare reform legislation softened rules that prevented social service agencies backed by religious organizations from receiving government contracts. 
 And in 2001, the Bush administration stepped up federal support for religious involvement in workplace issues by establishing a Center for Faith-Based and Community Initiatives in the White House and in five major federal agencies, including the Labor Department. The center there describes its mission as helping religious and community organizations work with government agencies and as eliminating ''barriers to fair treatment.'' 
 According to James E. Post, a management professor at Boston College, a small but growing number of private companies are finding that churches can recruit, screen and even help manage large numbers of new employees, especially at the entry level. 
 Formal government support for such activities has raised concerns in some quarters about church-state separation. ''The two most important issues facing freedom of religion in the United States today are intelligent design and the faith-based initiative at the Department of Labor,'' said Richard B. Katskee, assistant legal director for Americans United for Separation of Church and State, based in Washington. 
 ''When you have government giving a preference to particular religious beliefs, that is an encroachment on individuals making decisions for themselves on matters of faith,'' he said.
 But to Professor Post, the involvement of religious organizations in hiring for secular work sites is not an issue. ''The macro question is, Is this discriminatory?'' he said. ''I don't think so. I think it is in the tradition of opening up opportunities to segments of our population that in the past haven't been able to get through some of those barriers.''
 Some religious leaders cite the potentially devastating effect of unemployment on a worker and, ultimately, on religious institutions.
 ''Tuition costs $7,000 to $10,000 a year'' per student at private religious schools, said Rabbi Moshe D. Krupka, executive director for programming at the Orthodox Union, an organization that provides religious and social services to nearly a thousand North American synagogues.
 ''Orthodox Jews tend to have large families,'' he said. ''Anyone who is out of work or in need of an upgrade is under financial strain. That strain impacts the community and has a ripple effect.''
 Last year the Orthodox Union began ParnossahWorks to offer career coaching and job-finding advice. The program, named for a Hebrew term that translates as ''financial sustenance,'' is open to all, not just synagogue members, Rabbi Krupka said, and so far has found jobs for more than 160 people, mostly in metropolitan New York.
 Avrohom Leichtling, a computer programmer who lives in Monsey, N.Y., said that after his last job ended in April, ParnossahWorks helped him get a programming job 15 minutes from his home.
 ''My job-searching skills were a little rusty, and when a person is unemployed a great deal of emotional baggage comes into the equation,'' Mr. Leichtling said. ''You need to deal with people who can provide you with practical information and who can help you work through the emotional aspects as well. For me as an Orthodox Jew, it is more comfortable dealing with people who understand'' issues like Sabbath and holiday observance, which restrict work hours.
 Since the introduction of the Labor Department's faith-based initiative, a number of employers have built relationships with spiritual leaders.
 Stephen M. Wing, director of government programs at the CVS Corporation, said the company started teaming up with ministers at inner-city churches after a $40,000 newspaper help-wanted campaign in 2001 drew no responses. 
 Mr. Wing approached the Rev. H. Lionel Edmonds, senior minister at Mount Lebanon Baptist Church in Washington, and asked for his church's help.
 Mr. Edmonds said he was skeptical at first, but decided that the company genuinely wanted to hire local residents and that the jobs were worth pursuing. The church put on a job fair after services on Palm Sunday, and attracted more than 100 applicants. CVS hired 45 on the spot.
 Mr. Wing said half the applicants hired through the church's efforts stayed in their jobs for a least a year, compared with fewer than a sixth of recruits in general.
 ''The minister is going to screen people for us and make sure they meet the qualifications we're looking for,'' Mr. Wing said. 
 He described the relationship between CVS and inner-city churches as being based on shared beliefs. ''I think that CVS's core values are very similar to the values that the church has,'' Mr. Wing said. 
 Encouraged by the faith-based initiatives, some entrepreneurs in the career-counseling industry have introduced or expanded programs by creating relationships with religious organizations. 
 Bill Broderick, a management consultant specializing in human resource concerns, is a co-founder of Work Ministry in Chicago, which started four years ago with a mission of assisting religious groups in helping their congregants and community members find jobs.
 Citing the Labor Department's endorsement of such efforts, he said Work Ministry had grown to more than 132 programs in 25 states. Local group leaders trained by Mr. Broderick run the programs, using guidelines and resources posted on the company's Web site.
 ''We are giving church and synagogue groups all the tools they need to be effective in helping people get jobs,'' he said. ''And we are getting to employers and producing job lists.'' He said he could not specify how many people had found jobs through the programs, because they were run by local group leaders.
 Churches ''are very good at what they do, like spiritual counseling, but they don't have a lot of expertise with career issues, like writing better r?sum?s,'' Mr. Broderick said. ''We do.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kurt Mackey, third from left, of Work Ministry works with churches on job placement. (Photo by Chris Ocken for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (92%); RELIGION (92%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); CHURCH & STATE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



117 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: This Jefferson Couldn't Get Elected Governor of New Jersey

BYLINE: By NAOMI SIEGEL

DATELINE: MADISON 

 BODY:
WHILE the echo of title is intentional, the theater experiences could not be more different. ''Sunrise at Campobello'' was Dore Schary's sentimental tribute to F.D.R. and his battle with polio. ''Sunrise at Monticello,'' Guillermo Reyes's outrageously funny comedy receiving its world premiere here at Playwrights Theater of New Jersey, sets up a buffoonish Thomas Jefferson (T. J. the Man, as he is affectionately called) for a pummeling. 
 After plopping the bewigged and decidedly dizzy ex-prez down in a Brooklyn apartment with Salvador, a young Puerto Rican television writer struggling to validate his own ethnicity while forced to come up with material for a prime-time network special on ''illegal alien Puerto Ricans,'' the play then works the old fella over for his racially hypocritical affair with his slave Sally Hemings, that 18th-century prequel to the Monica and Bill fiasco.
Stains on a dress are put through DNA testing. Prof. Emily Rawlings, the white (or is she black?) feminist chairwoman of a leading university's African-American Studies Department and author of the best-selling ''Jefferson Does Sally,'' panics, afraid that her tenure may be compromised by this ''dead white male'' revealing new information that contradicts her research. 
 The news media step in with plans to develop a reality show featuring T. J. At a power lunch, the network chief, Gustave Van Dorphen, sets things straight for Maya, an ambitious young woman in charge of the network's Minority Stuff Department: ''Life is limiting. Illusion is liberating. Merit is overrated, and on television it will get you nowhere.''
 Mr. Reyes is an equal opportunity offender. Be prepared for an exhausting game of catchup simply trying to stay in the mix of this hotly topical, staccato-paced, laugh-a-minute sendup. Nothing is sacred here, certainly not the national debate surrounding race, ethnicity and family values.
 James Glossman has directed this manic exercise with no holds barred, milking Mr. Reyes's wonderfully drawn characters for maximum comic return. He is aided in his efforts by a superb cast, each actor managing to mine stereotypes with side-splitting results.
 Dan Domingues, flashing a megawatt smile, his speech inflected with an island lilt, is perfect as Salvador. In Act II, wearing shades and a striped suit as he negotiates his cut on T. J.'s $100 million contract with the network, he has ''newly empowered sleazebag agent'' written all over him. Joy Jones rockets between the roles of Sally, slyly obsequious, and Maya, an up-and-comer with an exaggerated sense of her own empowerment. A very funny Jake Speck brings a nonplussed bemusement to Jefferson. 
 Michael David Gordon's Gustave is a model of condescension and self-inflation, and his African Woman is a positive howl. Prentiss Benjamin pulls out all the stops in a three-prong assault as Martha Jefferson, Professor Rawlings and a Liberal Man. And Brendan Patrick Burke almost steals the show as Edna, the conservative congresswoman on a family-values bender.
 ''Sunrise at Monticello'' is at Playwrights Theater of New Jersey, 33 Green Village Road, Madison, through Nov. 13. Information: (973) 514-1787, extension 30, or on the Web at www.ptnj.org.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dan Domingues, left, and Jake Speck in ''Sunrise at Monticello'' at the Playwrights Theater in Madison. (Photo by Carol Rosegg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); WRITERS (90%); RACE & RACISM (88%); WOMEN (87%); GOVERNORS (79%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); POLITICAL DEBATES (67%); FAMILY (63%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (54%); DNA (52%); DNA TESTING (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



118 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: A Stamp For the Ages

BYLINE: By Ruth Y. Goldway. 
Ruth Y. Goldway is a commissioner on the Postal Rate Commission.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
LAST week my colleagues and I on the Postal Rate Commission recommended approval of the United States Postal Service's request to raise the price of a first-class stamp to 39 cents from 37 cents, as part of a 5.4 percent overall rate increase, sometime early next year. 
 The negotiations during the rate review process yielded a promising development, one that's worth highlighting. The Postal Service promised the commission's Office of Consumer Advocate that it would immediately begin studying the idea of adopting ''forever'' or ''perpetual'' stamps.
What's a ''forever stamp''? It's just what you think it would be: a stamp that could always be used for the first ounce of first-class postage -- that is, most letters mailed by individuals.
 It would be sold at the current price of a first-class stamp but would be good for first- class letter postage indefinitely.
 Sound far-fetched? Well, 30 nations, including Britain, Finland, Israel, Belgium and Brazil, have used this kind of stamp. And the stamps make sense. 
 The main benefit for customers: no more last-minute time-consuming trips to the post office, joining the hordes to buy new higher-rate stamps or ''make up'' stamps to add to the old ones. Individuals might buy large quantities of forever stamps just before a rate increase, but would that be such a bad thing? After all, the Postal Service would get the use of the funds -- the float -- until the stamps are finally used. Postal clerks would make better use of their time than they would selling two-cent stamps. 
 What's more, a forever stamp would give the Postal Service an incentive to maximize the float by putting in place technological improvements that would keep its own costs -- and the need for future rate increases -- below the rate of inflation.
 Would hoarding be a problem? Probably not. Business customers are unlikely to hoard stamps for the first-class letter rate because most send ''work shared'' mail at lower rates already; besides, most business mailers do not physically affix stamps to paper -- they use preprinted or metered postage instead. Typical consumers are unlikely to hoard large quantities of forever stamps for obvious practical reasons. The average household spends about $6 a month on postage. The public's primary concern is not price but convenience.
 The Postal Service has signaled that it will ask for another rate increase next year, one that is probably even larger than this year's. 
 But, until now, it has resisted the forever stamp even though such a stamp would do a great deal to help consumers adjust to rate increases, as well as assisting the Postal Service in managing its budget and investing in improvements. In recent years the service has been working to shed its image as a stodgy, unresponsive government monopoly. I urge it to consider the forever stamp and adopt it as a pro-consumer, money-saving reform.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ted McGrath)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL RATES (94%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); APPROVALS (78%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (90%); POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); BRAZIL (79%); BELGIUM (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



119 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: France Has an Underclass, But Its Roots Are Still Shallow 

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
JUST two months ago, the French watched in horrified fascination at the anarchy of New Orleans, where members of America's underclass were seen looting stores and defying the police in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.
 Last week, as rioters torched cars and trashed businesses in the immigrant-concentrated suburbs of Paris, the images of wild gangs of young men silhouetted against the yellow flames of burning cars came as an unwelcome reminder for France that it has its own growing underclass.
The coincidence of timing can be revealing -- and deceptive. 
 The corrosive gap between America's whites and its racial minorities, especially African-Americans, is the product of centuries: slavery, followed by cycles of poverty and racial exclusion that denied generation after generation the best the United States could offer. France, on the other hand, is only beginning to struggle with a much newer variant of the same problem: the fury of Muslims of North African descent who have found themselves caught for three generations in a trap of ethnic and religious discrimination. 
 Even so, France is still low on the curve toward developing an entrenched, structural underclass -- one that could breed extremism and lasting social problems. 
 So far, while hundreds of cars and buses have been burned and dozens of businesses destroyed in violence that has spread to a dozen towns, most rioters appear to be teenage boys bent more on making the news than making a coherent political statement.
 ''It's a game of cowboys and Indians,'' said Olivier Roy, a French scholar of European Islam. He is usually keen to warn Europeans of the potential danger posed by Islamists living among them. But in this case, he said, the danger is a long-range one. So far, he said, the attacks on the police and the torching of cars has less the character of a religious war than of ''a local sport, a rite of passage.'' 
 The violence, on the other hand, reflects something that any American who lived through the urban upheavals of the 1960's, or the 1992 riots in Los Angeles, might recognize: a dangerous degree of isolation felt by a growing segment of its population, especially its young.
 Although many Americans feel that their country still has a lot of work to do to close the gap between blacks and whites, the social protests and urban upheavals of the 1960's produced a stream of measures intended to increase political and economic opportunities rapidly for members of minority groups, and to stress the value of diversity to a democracy. By contrast, the French model has so far relied largely on expensive measures to keep poor Muslims fed, housed and educated, but has not effectively addressed the social or political isolation they feel from job and housing discrimination, and has actually limited their ability to define themselves as a political interest group. Affirmative action, a cornerstone of the American approach, has been a taboo here. 
 Manuel Valls, a member of Parliament and mayor of ?vry, a troubled suburb south of Paris that has seen its share of violence in the past few days, put it this way: ''We've combined the failure of our integration model with the worst effects of ghettoization, without a social ladder for people to climb.'' 
 ''In the U.S. and Britain, the communities help create opportunities for advancement,'' he continued. But in France ''the state and the politicians have left the playing field open for a political-religious response -- that's undeniable.'' 
 Still, because France's difficulties are relatively recent, it may have a chance to escape the depth of the American problems. 
 For one thing, the physical conditions in these neighborhoods have not begun to rival poor urban areas in the United States. Even in the worst government housing developments, green lawns and neat flower beds break the monotony of the gray concrete.
 There are more than 700 such neighborhoods in the country, housing nearly five million people or about 8 percent of the population. 
 The despair in these housing projects (called cit?s here) has been mitigated by better schools than those that serve poor, minority districts in the United States (education is financed nationally in France, rather than through local tax rolls) and by extensive welfare programs. Even when employed, a family of four living in a government-subsidized apartment typically pays only a few hundred dollars a month in rent and can receive more than $1,200 a month in various subsidies. The unemployed receive more. For all, health care and education are free. 
 There is crime, but not nearly at the level of random violence feared in poor neighborhoods in American cities. Guns are tightly controlled and are still relatively rare. When a teenager was killed in a drive-by shooting in a Paris suburb this year, it made national headlines. The family unit among immigrants is still strong, as are ties to their homelands.
 But that tight social fabric is fraying as the second and now third generations of French-born immigrants come of age. On two levels, many young immigrants find themselves questioning where they really belong. They have weaker ties than their parents did to their ancestral countries, but they are also discovering that, contrary to what they have been taught in school, they are not fully French.
 That is one foundation of the fear among some experts that a structural underclass is emerging. Already, French-Arabs and French-Africans make up the majority of inmates in France's prisons, just as minorities make up a vastly disproportionate part of the American prison population. 
 France's definition of citizenship also presents problems. While the United States stresses pluralism, France continues to discourage anything that could carve up the French body politic along ethnic lines; the word ''communautarisme,'' which roughly translates as ghettoization, is known to all French as a destructive force that afflicts, most notably, the United States. 
 It was only in 2003 that the French government encouraged the formation of an umbrella Islamic organization that could represent French Muslims in a dialogue with the state. The overall policy has only increased Muslim resentments by banning any form of affirmative action and by suppressing cultural expression in measures like forbidding Muslim girls to wear veils in school. 
 As in the United States, most experts agree that in the long run, full employment would be the best way to solve the problems and accelerate integration. Here, the comparison between the history of American minority groups and those in France seems particularly close. The jobless rate among French-Arabs and French-Africans is as high as 30 percent in some neighborhoods, triple the national average. French-Arabs regularly claim that when identical r?sum?s are submitted to an employer with an Arab name on one and a French name on another, the r?sum? with the French name will get the priority.
 That much, at least, may be changing. In March, President Jacques Chirac appointed the chairman of the automaker Renault, Louis Schweitzer, to head a council created to fight job and housing discrimination. The country is also engaged in a debate over whether to bend its laws to allow affirmative action in the job market.
 ''The picture of France as a country that doesn't want to recognize diversity -- that's partially true,'' said Patrick Weil, an expert on immigration and integration based in Paris for the German Marshall Fund. ''But there's a debate now about what steps should be taken to change that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Making Parallels -- The wreckage after unrest last week in the Paris suburb Clichy-sous-Bois, right
the Los Angeles riots in 1992. (Photo by Jacques Brinon/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Mike Nelson/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); RIOTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); HURRICANES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



120 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: With Glen Cove's Contaminated Mound Gone, Now What? 

BYLINE: By DAVID EVERITT

DATELINE: GLEN COVE 

 BODY:
FOR years, the City of Glen Cove has been trying to revitalize its waterfront along Hempstead Harbor and Glen Cove Creek, with ambitious plans for restaurants, a hotel and recreational and cultural attractions on former industrial sites. The city even built a new esplanade to get things started.
 But the officials who dedicated the esplanade two years ago had to put the best face they could on a huge obstacle to their plans -- a mound of 120,000 cubic yards of low-level radioactive waste under a black tarpaulin -- that they could not seem to dispose of. 
Until last month. 
 City, county and federal officials gathered again at the site on Oct. 27 to celebrate the fact that the mound of contaminated soil was gone, on its way by dump truck to final resting places in Idaho and Utah. 
 The ceremonial removal of the last bucketful that day was little more than a photo opportunity, because the final truckload of radioactive waste had actually left the site two days before. But it marked a significant turning point, consigning the old industrial waterfront -- with its lingering pollution problems -- to the city's past and opening the way for redevelopment. 
 The principal polluter was a metal processing plant that operated for four decades after World War II, under a succession of corporate parents including Li Tungsten and Teledyne. A stark black-and-white aerial photo of the site, taken in the mid-1950's and displayed at the ceremony, showed the land by the creek choked in smoke billowing from a cluster of factory buildings. The property became ''one of the worst polluted vacant sites in Nassau County,'' Mary Ann Holzkamp, the mayor of Glen Cove, said at the ceremony.
 Though the city began trying to clean up the waterfront in the 1990's, the problem of dealing with the radioactive soil became mired in federal bureaucracy, as the Environmental Protection Agency fought with the former operators over who would pay to remove the mound. The agency finally settled with Teledyne in August 2004, when the company agreed to contribute $1 million and the agency $20.9 million, according to Cara Longworth, the executive director of Glen Cove's industrial and community development agency. 
 With the tainted soil gone, the 23-acre site on Garvies Point Road, known as Captain's Cove, is a blank slate, rutted with bulldozer tracks and dotted with puddles of rainwater where sea gulls congregate in wet weather. To the south is Glen Cove Creek, to the north a wooded hillside, and to the west the esplanade and the harbor. 
 The city's ideas for transforming the area were on display at the ceremony, in illustrations prepared by Glen Isle Partners, the developer the city hired to oversee the project. They show parks, restaurants with open-air dining and a cultural arts district, all accessible by a walking path from downtown Glen Cove. 
 George Pavlou, deputy regional administrator of the E.P.A., said at the ceremony, ''I would like to see this done in two to three years.'' 
 The question is: How realistic is that hope?
 Glen Isle Partners presented its original plan for the waterfront, including Captain's Cove and another 26-acre site on Herbhill Road at the head of the creek, in the spring of 2004. It proposed setting aside 30 percent of the land for public parks and 70 percent for hotels, residences, stores and restaurants and for restoring ferry service between Glen Cove and Manhattan. All of this, the developers said, would complement, not detract from, the city's struggling downtown just to the northeast.
 Now, the only visible movement toward this goal, aside from the esplanade, is a new roadway and bridge under construction that will make the waterfront area directly accessible from the intersection of Glen Cove Avenue and Pratt Boulevard. All else remains on the drawing board. 
 And that is where it will remain for now, while the city and its development partner try to adapt their plans to community needs, develop some cost estimates and seek out investment capital for the project, said Michael Posillico, managing partner of Glen Isle.
 ''Over the next several months, there will be clearer depictions to refine the ideas,'' Mr. Posillico said. Glen Isle mailed fliers to residents the day after the ceremony, telling them that public meetings will be held in the coming months to discuss the project. 
 Though the Captain's Cove property is now ready for development, there are still some hazardous-metal contaminants on a neighboring lot that must be removed. And a dredging project in Glen Cove Creek, which was suspended while the radioactive waste was being removed, is still to be completed by the Army Corps of Engineers.
 Though much preparatory work still needs to be done before Glen Cove residents will see much visible evidence of revitalization on the waterfront, Mr. Posillico said he did not believe that the wait would last much longer. 
 ''Theoretically,'' he said, ''we could start building in the next year or two.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The last of the mound of low-level radioactive waste was trucked away last month from the 23-acre Captain's Cove site in Glen Cove. (Photo by Vic DeLucia for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION (90%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (89%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (64%); WORLD WAR II (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



121 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Mollusk Lovers, Unite

BYLINE: By Brian Halweil. 
Brian Halweil, the author of ''Eat Here: Reclaiming Homegrown Pleasures in a Global Supermarket,'' is the editor of Edible East End.

DATELINE: Sag Harbor 

 BODY:
SEAFOOD lovers keep your fingers crossed. On Monday, assuming all goes as planned, baymen will begin pulling bushels of scallops out of Long Island's Great Peconic Bay. This body of water, about 75 miles east of New York City and defined by the North Fork and the Hamptons, had long produced arguably the most delicious mollusk that New York has to offer. But the scallops -- sweeter and more tender than their larger, more common sea-scallop cousins -- were almost completely wiped out by exotic algae that ruined their habitat 20 years ago. 
 The Peconic Bay scallop was once the pride of Long Island. The signature mollusks, New York's official shell, graced tables across the country. Available from late September through March when most other local food and work were scarce, the bay scallops could account for as much as 50 percent of a bayman's annual income. On opening day of scallop season, hundreds of boaters would drift along the bay, conversing with other scallopers in a town-meeting-like atmosphere, while hand-dredging scallop sand nests. 
After a day's harvest, neighbors would gather to pry open the ridged, purple shells and cut out the large muscles, or eyes, that we eat. (''Always a scallop in the air'' was the compliment paid to people who could quickly shuck and toss the scallops into a pile.) It was a lucrative activity. Women clothed their families, did their Christmas shopping and even put their children through college shucking scallops. Two decades ago, Josephine Smith, a Shinnecock Indian and chef, regularly gathered a bushel, or 200 to 300 scallops, that had been washed up on the shore of Shinnecock Bay after a strong northeaster. But, Ms. Smith lamented recently, ''My youngest son doesn't know what it is to scallop after a strong east wind.'' 
 You see, in the mid-1980's, scallops and the culture that surrounded them landed on tough times. The mysterious exotic algae known as brown tide took hold in the bay; local marine biologists still offer little explanation about how they arrived and spread, though the cause was probably related to nitrogen pollution from farms and waterfront septic systems. The shellfish starved to death because they couldn't eat the brown tide, which not only squeezed out the algae that scallops fed upon, but also suffocated the eelgrass beds where scallops nested. 
 Annual scallop harvests plummeted to 250 pounds in 1988 from an average of 270,000 pounds in the 1960's. Most bay scallops sold in the United States are now frozen imports from China. ''Nobody goes scalloping anymore,'' said Brad Lowen, president of East Hampton Bayman's Association. ''There's no scallops to go for.'' 
 Fortunately, this season could be a turning point. This past spring and summer, baymen, naturalists and hobby fishermen all noticed significantly more baby scallops than in recent years. And in 2004, Suffolk County awarded Cornell University's marine center in Southold a four-year grant of $1.8 million dollars to expand its efforts to raise and seed the bays with scallops.
 At the center of this effort is the Southold Project in Aquaculture Training (whose acronym, SPAT, is also the term for baby bivalves). The project was established in 2001 and now involves hundreds of local residents from dozens of Long Island towns who are working to restore scallops and other wild shellfish populations. This army of volunteers -- who raise baby scallops in tanks, feeding them until they are big enough to survive in the wild -- has seeded, or placed in the water by hand, tens of millions of scallops and is at the center of one of the nation's most successful shellfish restoration efforts. (The program has inspired similar ones in New Jersey, Cape Cod and Chile.) 
 The expanded seeding effort seems to be working and nurtures the possibility of reviving a storied local economy. But the problem won't be solved by seeding alone. It will require replanting eelgrass beds, enforcing harvest quotas, restoring wetlands and protecting the bay from illegal dumping of toxic substances like chlorinated swimming pool water. It will mean restricting fertilizer use on bayside farms and lawns, as well as limiting waterfront septic systems.
 Even seafood lovers have a central role to play. Like heritage pork and heirloom apples, rare shellfish will become more abundant partly because people demand it in restaurants and supermarkets. A steady demand for scallops, whether saut?ed, stewed or fried, gives an incentive for politicians to protect the waters where the scallop resides. 
 So, the next time you get a craving for seafood, demand Peconic Bay scallops. It could be the mollusks' best hope.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (73%); FAMILY (73%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (72%); STARVATION (72%); BIOLOGY (70%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (50%); CHRISTMAS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



122 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 2891 words

HEADLINE: Once Battered by Poverty, 3 Families Find New Start 

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
For Vincent and Christobelle Venner, it started with an illness that forced her to stop working for a month. After they were evicted for falling behind on their $1,450 rent, the couple and their six children slept wherever they could: on buses, in the airport and, on the rare occasions when they could afford it, in motels. 
 For Renee and Allen Klass, it was a water main break that flooded their house. The flood, coupled with Mr. Klass's losing his job, changed the family's lives quickly, and ruthlessly: never late on their mortgage payments, they suddenly had to resort to bunking on friends' and relatives' couches.
For Joyce McFadden, it was a bus strike that forced her to take $15 cab rides to work to draw a salary that was barely enough to cover the rent. 
 Both families, along with many others in the New York City area, have long seen their financial safety nets frayed by punishing housing costs. So as housing consumes an ever-growing portion of family income, more and more people are finding themselves pushed closer to the margin. Some don't even realize their predicament until its full impact is upon them. 
 The problems are particularly acute for low-wage earners, whose wages, adjusted for inflation, have been flat or falling, even as the price of housing has soared. 
 The darker side of the real estate boom is that poor renters in New York have seen their median rents rise by 67 percent from 1993 to 2002, while their income rose only 57 percent in the same period, according to a report by the Community Service Society, a nonprofit group that helps the city's poor. 
 About 65 percent of the poor now pay more than half their income in rent, up from 60 percent in 1999, according to the report, which draws on federal census data. 
 Signs of financial stress show in housing statistics. The number of filings against tenants for nonpayment in the city grew 15 percent from 2000 to 2003, to more than 318,000. The number of homeless people in city shelters, mostly families, was 32,000 as of June, up from around 22,000 in 2000. 
 ''It's fair to say we are seeing a lot more folks who never expected to be facing homelessness, people with long work histories who have lived in their homes for 10 or 20 years,'' said Patrick Markee, senior policy analyst with the Coalition for the Homeless, a nonprofit advocacy group.
 Often, survival is a juggling act. This month, will the sacrifice be the rent, the gas bill or medication for an aging grandmother? Personal finances are often a carefully balanced house of cards, vulnerable to collapse with a single unpredictable event: hospitalization, a layoff, a high utility bill.
 In these circumstances, any help can make an enormous difference. And a support system like The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund can give a family in crisis a chance to regroup and regain its footing.
 ''Despite the economic recovery of the last two years, the poor are falling further behind,'' said David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society, one of seven New York charities supported by the Neediest Cases. ''Without the help of nonprofits and charities like The New York Times Neediest, I don't know how many of these people would survive.''

Decades of Giving
 Over more than nine decades, the Neediest Cases has provided a lifeline for New Yorkers struggling with illness, catastrophic losses and poverty. Through the seven beneficiary charities, the fund has also aided thousands of people who have lost homes or who live on the edge of eviction. 
 In fact, the fund, which begins its 94th annual fund-raising campaign today, was inspired by a realization of how poor New Yorkers live. As the story goes, the publisher of The Times, Adolph S. Ochs, encountered a shabbily dressed beggar on a frigid Christmas Day in 1911. 
 Touched by the man's plight, Mr. Ochs established the Neediest Cases, and the newspaper first sought contributions in 1912. In the beginning, The Times printed 100 short profiles of the city's most disadvantaged people. Today, daily articles tell the stories of New Yorkers who are at their lowest point, but finding help and hope through the Neediest Cases. 
 Since it began, the fund has raised more than $215 million for New Yorkers in need, including $64 million for those affected by the terrorist attack of Sept. 11, 2001.
 Spurred by the twin narratives of need and impact, more than 12,000 readers a year now give contributions ranging from a few dollars to as much as $1 million. The money is channeled into the seven charities. (Contributions from trusts and estates of more than $50,000 are put into an endowment and the income, recently more than $1 million a year, goes into the following year's campaign.) The New York Times Foundation underwrites the administrative costs, so all donations go directly to those in need. 
 Since Sept 11, 2001, when Neediest Cases donations jumped 20 percent compared with those of the previous year, the foundation has had its four most successful fund-raising years ever, including the 2004-5 campaign, which raised $7.9 million. 
 Jack Rosenthal, president of The New York Times Company Foundation, said he hoped that the natural disasters around the world, including the tsunami in Asia and Hurricane Katrina in the Gulf Coast, would serve as catalysts for giving, as 9/11 did. 
 ''We at The Times have joined in those relief efforts -- but at the same time are concerned about the ongoing distress suffered by many poor families in New York,'' he said. ''Those needs are, if anything, greater than before, considering the punishing cost of rent.''

One Snag After Another
 For the Venner family, the crushing cost of rent is all too familiar, and the feeling of a stable home slipping away all too real.
 After he and his family were evicted with little more than the clothes on their back, after they started sleeping on an airport shuttle bus, and after they started living off the dollar menu at McDonald's, Mr. Venner felt that he might not have the strength to hold them all together.
 Picking his son up after school, he often had those moments. ''The first thing that he would ask is, 'Daddy, are we going back to the airport tonight?''' said Mr. Venner, 46, who has six children: Coldrik, 23; Jacqueline, 21; Clorette, 19; Vivian, 17; Jeromy, 8; and Vincent Jr., 6. ''Those were the times when I feel like running away, turning my back, because I couldn't face them.''
 Yet the family stayed together during a bumpy journey from their native St. Vincent, in the Caribbean, through seven months of homelessness in New York City. Through it all, Mr. Venner continued working full time at Kennedy Airport.
 With both parents working at Kennedy -- Mr. Venner as a ramp supervisor and Mrs. Venner as a cabin groomer -- they were able to afford the $1,450 rent on their three-bedroom apartment in Jamaica, Queens. But they had a tiny cushion in case they hit a financial stumbling block -- which they did. In fact, they hit more than one. 
 When Mrs. Venner, 44, was sick for a month, their income fell from more than $700 a week to around $500. Then her mother died in St. Vincent, and the family sent money to help pay for the funeral. Soon, they fell behind on the rent. 
 Their last full payment was in May 2004. On Nov. 8 of that year, an armed marshal showed up at their door and gave them just minutes to leave the apartment. 
 ''He came in beating down the door to tell us to get out,'' Jacqueline recalled. 
 Forced out, the Venners left behind their passports, birth certificates, bankbooks, clothes and belongings. Jeromy, 6, still carries a rumpled piece of notebook paper where, in careful print but awkward spellings, he has penciled in the things they left behind: ''toster, micerwave, colone.''
 Without an apartment, the family made meals of takeout Chinese and McDonald's. After school and after work, the Venners would often ride the bus until the morning, using MetroCards. They showered at motels when they could afford a room.
 One day while she was on the bus, Mrs. Venner saw a sign for Catholic Charities, Archdiocese of Brooklyn and Queens, one of the seven Neediest Cases beneficiaries. 
 She got off the bus and went in to explain her problem, she said, and ''they started helping us looking for shelter and help.''
 With money from Neediest Cases and other donors, the charity paid for the family's motel, gave them food vouchers and gift certificates and helped them look for an apartment. ''Catholic Charities helped pay for a week just to keep us off the streets,'' Mr. Venner said. The charity also gave them counseling on saving and budgeting.
 Funds from the Neediest Cases were used to pay the $1,500 first month's rent for an apartment just blocks away from their first. 
 In total, the family was without a home for seven months and seven days. When the Venners moved into the new apartment in July, Mrs. Venner headed for the kitchen. She made rice, chicken, curry dishes and a West Indies favorite, pelau. ''No more fast food,'' she told her family emphatically.

Upended by Flood
 Sometimes even families with six-figure incomes, living a seemingly stable middle class life, can be thrown into disarray if the shock is large enough -- especially if they've drawn on their house to finance other aspects of their life. For the Klasses, the large shock came in the form of a flood that appeared out of nowhere -- with no rain, no swollen river, no warning at all.
 When the flood occurred about a year ago, Allen Klass was at home in Pomona, N.Y., on a sunny November day after losing his job as a computer programmer. His wife, Renee, was at work as a substitute teacher at East Ramapo Elementary School. 
 Suddenly Mr. Klass heard yelling and screaming in the street. He went to the window. A wall of muddy water was coming toward the house. A pipe had burst under Phyllis Drive near their home. The street had caved in. ''It was like the rapids coming down the hill,'' said Mr. Klass, 65. He picked up his sickly mother-in-law, Loretta Siflingo, 88, and carried her out to safety.
 The water shredded the garage door. It picked up a refrigerator plump with Thanksgiving groceries and tossed it to the other side of the room. It was an hour before the water was turned off. By then there was four feet of water and mud inside the house. 
 Their belongings were drenched and mashed with mud and then dried out, leaving behind a heavy, moldy scent that saturated photo albums, dishware from their daughter's recent wedding and European crystal from Mrs. Klass's great-grandmother. ''I never realized the devastation that water could do,'' said Mrs. Klass, 64.
 Mr. Klass had a six-figure salary as a computer programmer , but the math was not that simple. Their finances had been depleted by three college educations and weddings for their three children. Not only had they tapped into their savings for these expenses, they had also borrowed against their home. ''My kids tell me to move,'' Mrs. Klass said. ''I can't afford to move.''
 When the water was finally drained, the house was boarded up with plywood and a ''Danger'' sign. Suddenly, they found themselves without a home but still paying a mortgage of $1,300 a month and health insurance payments of $1,000 a month. They spent five months bouncing around motels and relatives' homes as they tried to find help paying for the damage. Their insurance company denied the claim. Their neighbors, who had insurance with a different company, received a check. The town and the water utility refused to pay for the damage because it was caused by an accident and not, by their argument, a result of negligence. 
 The destruction of the two homes in Pomona attracted little attention -- only an article or two in the local paper. There were no bailouts. There were only polite letters of sympathy from politicians' offices. ''You would think that a state would help people in my case,'' Mrs. Klass said. Instead, that help came from groups like the Red Cross and Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York. ''They are there to help sustain you while you are going along,'' she said.
 Catholic Charities helped not only financially, but also psychologically. ''You are at a dead end, and you have no place to go, and they stepped up to the plate,'' said Mr. Klass, who received therapy at Catholic Charities for both the job loss and the flood. ''They were really on top of everything. They call us to see how we are doing.''
 Recently, while watching the Hurricane Katrina victims on the Gulf Coast, Mrs. Klass felt an eerie kinship: It was her family's experience, amplified by a factor of about a million. Mrs. Klass wrote out $25 donations on pink checks for the hurricane victims and gave it to Catholic Charities, which had used $600 from The New York Times Neediest Funds to help cover the $1,380 motel bill. They would have given more, Mrs. Klass said, only they were already tens of thousands of dollars in debt from rebuilding their home. Her balance on her American Express card is up to $17,000.

Bus Strike Hits Home
 The 48-day strike by the Bee-Line bus drivers in Westchester County this spring hit the working poor the hardest. They were the ones who couldn't afford to drive cars in the first place: new ones were far too expensive, used ones meant inheriting someone else's problems. They had to commute to hourly jobs with impatient bosses while also getting their children to school. 
 Like many other single working parents in Yonkers, Joyce McFadden was caught by the slow strangulation of the cab fares she need to pay to get her $9-an-hour job as a security guard. In March, her $1.75 bus fare and 45-minute ride became a $15 taxi fare and an hour-and-a-half hunt for a cab willing to make a 15-minute trip one town over. It cost $17 on the way back because cabs in Mount Vernon were more expensive. 
 The strike that everyone thought would be over in a few days soon dragged out into weeks. ''Every two weeks I brought home five hundred and something dollars,'' said Ms. McFadden, 36. ''By the time I got paid, I had already spent $300 just on transportation.'' That left less than $350 a month to pay the $800 rent for her three-room basement apartment and feed her family of three. 
 Feeding her daughter, T'mia, 6, and son, Michael, 20, became a resourceful juggling act. When Jif peanut butter went on sale for 99 cents, she bought six jars. ''We were down to peanut and jelly sandwiches for breakfast, lunch and dinner because I really couldn't afford to buy food,'' she said. 
 They also ate a lot of rice and beans: lima beans, pinto beans, black-eyed peas. Jack Rabbit beans were her favorite. They cost 69 cents a bag and could last two days. 
 Inevitably, she fell behind in rent. ''My landlord was very nice,'' she recalled. ''I told her I could give her what I could because I had to eat and my kids had to be O.K. She allowed me to give her what I could give her. Soon, I owed her $2,000, and I had no money,'' she said.
 Ms. McFadden feared being evicted. ''It's really indescribable, going from day to day, thinking the landlord is coming with the marshal, and me and my kids are going to be on the street,'' she said.
 One day she blurted out her concerns while visiting a school counselor who worked with her daughter through the Westchester Jewish Community Services. The counselor, Cathy Kunin, arranged to have $2,000 sent to pay the back rent, including $750 from The New York Times Neediest Cases through UJA-Federation of New York, another of the beneficiary charities. 
 Ms. McFadden had no idea what was happening behind the scenes. ''The landlord called and said, 'Joyce, I want you to know that I received payment.' I think I cried, but I didn't want to tell Cathy that,'' Ms. McFadden said. ''I felt like I won an apartment, like a homeless person that won an apartment. That's exactly how I felt.''

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.



GRAPHIC: Photos: Joyce McFadden at home in Yonkers with her daughter, T'mia. Cab rides to work during a bus strike this spring left little money for food and rent. (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)
 Renee and Allen Klass were forced from their home in Pomona, N.Y., after a water main break in November flooded it with four feet of water and mud. They were left with a $1,380 motel bill. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EVICTION (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); WATER MAIN BREAKS (71%); CENSUS (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



123 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Decline in Offense Is Leaving 2004 in N.F.L. Record Books

BYLINE: By AARON SCHATZ. 
Aaron Schatz is the lead writer of Pro Football Prospectus 2005 and editor-in-chief of FootballOutsiders.com.

 BODY:
 E-mail: keepingscore@nytimes.com
One of the biggest stories going into the 2004 N.F.L. season was the new emphasis on the illegal-contact penalty for bumping a receiver more than 5 yards past the line of scrimmage. The league wanted to increase passing and make coverage skills among defensive backs more important than physical intimidation.
 Within a few weeks, it was clear that the rule change had achieved the intended effect. Offense, in particular passing offense, was up. Teams were gaining more yards and scoring more points, with the overall completion percentage higher than ever before. This offensive-friendly environment led to a number of historic seasons by quarterbacks, led by Peyton Manning's record-breaking 49 passing touchdowns. 
Seven games into this season, Manning has only 11 touchdown passes, and many have written about the drop in his numbers. But nobody seems to have noticed that offense has declined leaguewide. Last season was not the beginning of a golden age for offense in general and passing in particular. It was just part of the changing tides that have always been fundamental to the N.F.L.
 Though completion percentage is still higher than ever, the average pass has been shorter than last season's. And runs are less successful, with yards a carry and rushing touchdowns at their lowest levels since 2001. Through eight weeks of the season, the average N.F.L. team is scoring 20.8 points a game and gaining 332 yards a game. Those numbers are down from the averages of 21.5 points and 341.9 yards for all of last season. 
 It seems like a small difference, but it is no smaller than the change that spawned so many ''golden era of offense'' articles a year ago. In 2003, teams scored 20.7 points a game. In 2002, the average was 21.7 points, and the season before that 20.2 points.
 These changes in the offensive environment can be explained as part random variation, part intelligent design. Like the Federal Reserve, which shifts interest rates to maintain the balance between growth and inflation, the N.F.L. rules committee tweaks the rules each off-season to maintain the balance between offense and defense.
 ''Players have already adjusted to the rules changes from 2004,'' Jim Schwartz, defensive coordinator of the Tennessee Titans, said. ''They've developed alternate techniques that can be effective but less likely to draw an illegal-contact flag.'' 
 Indeed, illegal-contact calls are down 17 percent, although the penalty is still called far more often than it was two years ago. (These numbers include declined and offsetting penalties.)
 Over all, penalties have increased for the second straight season. There have been 19 percent more flags compared with two years ago, although the league has never announced an initiative encouraging officials to call a stricter game. And when it comes to this season's drop in offense, the overall rise in penalties is not as interesting as the rise in two specific penalties: holding and pass interference.
 Offensive and defensive holding calls are each up 33 percent this season compared with a year ago, but these increases do not cancel each other out. Offensive holding is more than three times as common as defensive holding, and these penalties are a leading factor in this season's decreased scoring. In fact, offensive holding has passed the false start as the most commonly called penalty.
 Offensive and defensive pass interference are also more common this season. That simply returns defensive pass interference to the same rate as two years ago, but offensive pass interference was far more rare in seasons past.
 The officials, however, are not the only agent of change. N.F.L. coaches and coordinators are more likely to try new tactics than their counterparts in other sports. Game plans change regularly to take advantage of rule changes while also countering the latest popular strategy on the other side of the line of scrimmage. When a defensive strategy becomes popular, an offensive strategy rises to neutralize it, then another defensive strategy rises to neutralize that, in a never-ending cycle.
 Sometimes the new strategies are not even that new. To counteract the rise of smaller, quicker defensive ends who use speed to rush the passer, some teams have brought back a power running game with that old college standard, the wishbone, which features two halfbacks behind a fullback (or the inverted wishbone, with two fullbacks in front of a halfback).
 Increased use of the Cover-2 defense, which protects against long pass plays but is susceptible to throws in the middle of the field, led to more of the two-tight-end sets that were popular 20 years ago, when Joe Gibbs was a hot young offensive mind instead of a veteran coach who retired, then returned.
 The offensive increase of 2004 was just the usual ebb and flow of professional football. We noticed only because the league pointed to it and said, ''Look here.'' Offense this season is back to where it was before, and so is the public's awareness of any change.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Through eight weeks, scoring is back to 2003 levels. ''Players have already adjusted to the rules changes,'' the Titans' defensive coordinator, Jim Schwartz, said. (Photo by Chris Gardner/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (72%); SPORTS (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: TENNESSEE TITANS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



124 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; On Baseball; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Missing General Managers Are Not on the Agenda, but Baseball People Do Talk

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
THEY'LL be handing out scorecards tomorrow at the annual general managers meetings at the Hyatt Grand Champions Resort and Spa in Indian Wells, Calif. Couldn't tell many of the teams' general managers without them.
 In alphabetical order, by clubs, Arizona will have Josh Byrnes; Baltimore, Mike Flanagan (along with the new assistant Jim Duquette); Philadelphia, Pat Gillick; Tampa Bay, Andrew Friedman and Gerry Hunsicker; and Texas, Jon Daniels.
The Red Sox and the Dodgers will have blank spaces in the scorecard, but their seats at the table won't be empty. Having lost or disposed of their general managers in the past week, the Red Sox and the Dodgers will be represented by lower-level functionaries. But the departed general managers, Theo Epstein and Paul DePodesta, will most likely be the hottest topics of conversation in the off hours of the meetings.
 The Dodgers dismissed the 32-year-old DePodesta two years into a five-year contract. Epstein, 31, walked away from a three-year, $4.5 million contract offer from the Red Sox. The Dodgers said they expected to have a new general manager this week. The Red Sox have said nothing about their plans. 
 The Red Sox, in fact, haven't said much about anything. Epstein held a news conference last Wednesday but didn't really explain why he left the team. Larry Lucchino, the chief executive officer, didn't attend the news conference and still wasn't talking at week's end. ''I don't think he's calling anyone now,'' his secretary said Friday. ''As far as I know, he's still in radio silence.''
 Despite the absence of public explanations, baseball circles were filled with talk about the stunning development. The baseball grapevine is a remarkable conduit for information. Someone always hears something about everything.
 In this instance, the talk was about a major blowup between Epstein and Lucchino last weekend. Epstein's desire for autonomy in his player personnel decisions was said to be at the heart of the blowup. 
 Epstein, whom Lucchino nurtured in San Diego and Boston before making him the Red Sox general manager, wanted much the same thing as Brian Cashman sought before agreeing to stay with the Yankees. 
 Cashman was apparently assured he would control the club's New York-Tampa axis, but having last week's organizational meetings in New York instead of Tampa does not guarantee Cashman future control.
 In seeking to be his own man, Epstein felt he had outgrown Lucchino and wanted to get out from under what he felt was Lucchino's suffocating oversight. Lucchino was willing -- reluctantly -- to give Epstein the money he wanted but wasn't about to relinquish the control he felt was his as team president. 
 In addition, Epstein was upset with Charles Steinberg, the executive vice president for public affairs for the Red Sox. Steinberg was conspicuously absent from the Epstein news conference, lending credence to that aspect of the story. For Epstein to turn on Steinberg is especially strange because Steinberg was perhaps more responsible for his career than Lucchino.
 Steinberg hired Epstein as a public relations intern in Baltimore, took him to San Diego, then steered him to law school with the idea of getting him into baseball operations after he graduated. 
 Like Lucchino, Epstein and Steinberg did not return calls seeking clarification of the circumstances of Epstein's departure.
 Epstein told people that he had no privacy in Boston and that he couldn't even go out to dinner.
 The Red Sox will have four representatives at the meetings -- Peter Woodfork, baseball operations director; Jed Hoyer, assistant general manager; Ben Cherington, player development director; and Craig Shipley, special assistant to the general manager.
 In the absence of a general manager, the Dodgers will have Kim Ng, vice president and assistant general manager, and Roy Smith, vice president for scouting and development.
 Gillick will be attending the meetings in his fourth incarnation as a general manager. At 68, he is older than the departed Epstein and DePodesta combined and older than the newcomers Daniels (28) and Byrnes (35) combined. Byrnes served most recently as Epstein's assistant in Boston, where he might have succeeded Epstein had he not taken the Arizona job three days earlier.
 Flanagan was sort of a co-general manager with Jim Beattie, though neither had the title. Peter Angelos, the Orioles' owner, doesn't like the title general manager. Now Flanagan has replaced Beattie as executive vice president for baseball operations, and Duquette has been given Flanagan's title of vice president for baseball operations.
 Friedman, a baseball neophyte, and Hunsicker, a veteran general manager, are part of a Tampa Bay experiment in redefining the traditional front office.

Possibilities in Boston
 Before ''creating'' Theo Epstein in Boston, Larry Lucchino did the same thing in San Diego with Kevin Towers, taking a young executive and making him general manager. The Red Sox have a group of young executives from whom Lucchino could pluck his newest general manager, but they have two more intriguing possibilities.
 Jerry Kapstein is a senior adviser on baseball matters in their front office and has been a longtime associate of Lucchino, beginning in San Diego. People who know both men say they could work together without getting in each other's way. 
 If Kapstein's name is familiar, it's because he was the first major player agent, representing many of the players in the first group of free agents in 1976. Kapstein left the agent business in 1989 before becoming the Padres' chief executive the next year. 
 His tenure was short-lived, though, ending two months later when his wife, Linda, daughter of Joan Kroc, the Padres' owner, filed for divorce. 
 If the Red Sox don't want to be that radical, they could consider Lou Piniella, who is unemployed at the moment. Piniella was the Yankees' general manager for eight months before returning to the dugout as manager in June 1988. His presence at Fenway Park would defuse the uproar over Epstein's departure. 

The Ramirez Question
 What's to become of Manny? What's to become of the Red Sox if they are forced to trade Manny? Though his agent declined to confirm it, Manny Ramirez wants the Red Sox to trade him. ''I've had some conversations with the club about Manny's situation,'' Greg Genske, the agent, said, acknowledging nothing else. 
 Ramirez's status is simply another problem confronting the Red Sox. But the way they deal with it could be every bit as critical as the way they fix their vacancy in the general manager's chair. Omar Minaya, the Mets' general manager, has had his eye on Ramirez for the past year, but Ramirez has veto rights over a trade and has told at least some people that he won't play in New York. 
 ''That's an overstatement,'' Genske said. ''He hasn't ruled it out. He hasn't ruled out anything. We've had very preliminary conversations with the Red Sox..''
 Ramirez might have floated the idea that he wouldn't play in New York to set up a contract extension if the Mets did want to trade for him.

Yankees' Silent Upheaval
 When George Steinbrenner fires a coach during the season, it causes a huge uproar. The Yankees just turned over nearly their entire coaching staff, and it raised nary a sound. Luis Sojo, the third-base coach the past two seasons, was demoted to a minor league managing job, and Roy White, the first-base coach the past two seasons, was fired. 
 ''We wanted to upgrade, and those were areas we felt we needed to improve,'' General Manager Brian Cashman said.
 Joe Torre wanted Ron Guidry to replace the retired Mel Stottlemyre as pitching coach, but Cashman, concerned about Guidry's inexperience, preferred Joe Kerrigan. They went with Guidry and made Kerrigan the bullpen coach.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (89%); RESORTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



125 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Profits Up at City's Hotels; So Are Tensions

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Hotels in Manhattan are booming. Rates are high and profits are rolling in. 
 But seven months before the industry's contract with union workers is due to expire, no one is talking about what promises to be a record year for the city's tourism industry.
Instead, hotel managers and labor leaders are rumbling about the possibility of a strike or lockout come July 1 that could shut down most of the city's 315 hotels, from the Waldorf-Astoria to the Marriott Courtyard at La Guardia Airport, and could idle 28,000 workers. 
 The industry association's lawyers, Kane Kessler, issued a memo on Oct. 12 warning members that the union was seeking ''far-reaching and radical changes.'' The memo sought to bind members to a seven-page ''mutual assistance pact,'' which requires absolute loyalty if the industry decides to impose a ''bargaining lockout in order to obtain a negotiated settlement.'' 
 At the same time, the New York Hotel and Motel Trades Council, an umbrella group for hotel unions that is putting together a $30 million strike fund, has been working hard to subvert the industry's unity. 
 Peter Ward, president of the council, said he had signed secret ''me too'' agreements with more than two dozen hotel operators, in which they promised to keep their doors open and their employees working if contract talks broke down. 
 It is hard to tell whether all the talk is part of the routine warm-up to contract talks or a sign of a coming confrontation.
 But it comes at a time when the main hotel union, Unite Here, has aligned labor contracts in six major cities -- New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Boston, Honolulu and Toronto -- to expire next year to put pressure on global hotel operators like Hilton, Starwood and Marriott. 
 ''The only way an industry can show strength against a union is by forming a united front,'' said John Fox, senior vice president at PKF Consulting, a hotel specialist. ''Nothing unusual there. But I do think the union's going to take a tough stance. Where this shakes out, I don't know. We're still in the early posturing stages.''
 The economic conditions for the hotel industry in New York have never been better. The average occupancy rate at Manhattan hotels in the first nine months of this year was 84.8 percent, meaning that on many days the borough's 63,000 hotel rooms are sold out. 
 At the same time, the average room rate jumped 14 percent over last year, to $213.64. Analysts expect that by the end of December, the average will exceed the record $223 a night set in 2000.
 ''We're at record levels of occupancy,'' said Kirk Reed, who oversees hotel consulting in New York for PricewaterhouseCoopers. ''We'll reach a new peak level for the average daily rate by the end of the year.''
 Vijay Dandipani, chairman of the Hotel Association of New York City, played down the tough talk and the possibility of a strike or lockout, which could deal a severe blow to the city's tourism industry. 
 ''As far as the city of New York goes, we have not had a major issue in several contract negotiations,'' said Mr. Dandipani, chief operating officer of Apple Core Hotels, a chain of five budget hotels. ''Sometimes they've been contentious, but it never reached a flash point.''
 Joseph Spinnato, the president of the hotel association, said that the idea of a ''mutual assistance pact'' now circulating among hotel operators has been used in the past and does not represent a new level of hostility toward the union. It is intended to ensure that the unions cannot strike one hotel at a time.
 ''A reasonable wage increase is always in order,'' Mr. Spinnato said. ''I don't know of any outstanding major problems that could not be resolved by negotiation.''
 But Mr. Ward described the pact as disturbing. He said a sympathetic hotel manager had provided a union member with a copy of the document. It requires operators who sign the agreement to act in unison if they decide to lock out union workers, even if they disagree with the tactics adopted by the majority of the group. Hotels that break ranks and sign a separate agreement with the union are subject to fines.
 Mr. Ward said that wages and reduced workloads would be issues in the upcoming negotiations. He also called for sanctions against hotel operators that repeatedly violated union contracts. He said that at the Hilton, the largest hotel in the city, the union had won more than $2.3 million in back pay for members.
 If workers can be fired for taking a shampoo bottle out of a hotel, he asked, why should managers who continually violated the contract not be fired? 
 There is also a broader, more activist strategy at work for the union.
 ''We recognize that we're dealing with multinational corporations that think and act globally all the time,'' Mr. Ward said. ''We've reached a point where we have to think and act nationally in order to further our interests. We're not prepared to sit back any longer to have a poverty-level contract in one city and a better contract in this city.''
 Ian Schrager, who created the Royalton and Morgan hotels and will soon open the Gramercy Park Hotel, said it would be difficult for the industry to close ranks in New York. He has already signed a me-too agreement with the union.
 ''It's going to be hard to have a united front,'' Mr. Schrager said. ''Everyone always caves in. Even some big companies have signed a me-too agreement with the unions.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A scene outside the New York Hilton, at 54th Street and Avenue of the Americas, on Friday. The city's average room rate is nearing a record set in 2000, $223, and the Manhattan occupancy rate is 84.8 percent. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LOCKOUTS (90%); LODGING (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (79%); HOTEL STAFF (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); STRIKES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); TOURISM (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK HOTEL & MOTEL TRADES COUNCIL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



126 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; BackTalk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Monopoly's Money

BYLINE: By ANDREW ZIMBALIST. 
Andrew Zimbalist is the Robert A. Woods Professor of Economics at Smith College and the author of ''In the Best Interests of Baseball? The Revolutionary Reign of Bud Selig,'' to be published in March by Wiley.

 BODY:
Never mind the drivers, Nascar's rulers seem to be spinning out of control. A few weeks ago, Nascar's chairman and chief executive, Brian France, proposed a plan to limit the number of cars that team owners could control to three. This could reduce the stable of cars owned by Roush Racing, which has five, and Hendrick Motorsports, which has four. 
 France says he is concerned about equity and competitive balance. As the argument goes, when one owner controls several cars, the drivers can share information about track conditions and car technology, giving them an advantage over other drivers. And as it becomes more and more expensive to build cars and sponsor teams, owners with less capital will suffer, as will the fortunes of their drivers. 
It is nice to see that France, who may soon be leaving the family business, has discovered an interest in competition and fairness. His family, after all, owns Nascar, the Motor Racing Network (the radio network that broadcasts all Nascar races) and Americrown (the catering company that sells food at most Nascar tracks); it also owns a share of Action Performance (the dominant motor car memorabilia company) and owns a controlling interest in the publicly traded International Speedway Corporation. 
 The corporation owns 12 of the 22 racetracks that are host to the Nextel Cup, Nascar's premier series. It also has economic ties to the owner of another five tracks where Nextel Cup races are run.
 The only new tracks Nascar has sanctioned for Cup races since 1998 are owned by the speedway corporation. One of the most modern and well-equipped tracks in the country, Kentucky Speedway, has been trying to get a Cup race for the past five years. Nascar has put off Kentucky each year. Meanwhile, Nascar races at inferior and more dangerous tracks owned by the speedway corporation. 
 What about large teams with multicar entries? From 1990 to 1995, only 7 percent of all entries were from multicar teams. This proportion grew to 38 percent from 2000 to 2004. 
 Yet as multicar teams became more prominent, the outcome of races has become more balanced. During the past five years, no driver has repeated as the top earner or the points champion. From 1990 to 1994, there was an average of 12 different winners a season; from 2000 to '04, there was an average of 17 different winners a season.
 Multicar owners also seem to make it easier for new drivers to enter the top circuits. As the expenses associated with building and maintaining a racecar skyrocket, individual drivers or car owners increasingly find the cost prohibitive. The economies of scale associated with multicar teams facilitate new entries.
 So what is France really worried about? About 25 percent of Nextel race revenue is paid to the drivers and their teams. This compares with the more than 50 percent of revenue paid to players in the National Football League, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League and Major League Baseball. Nascar is earning a bundle by being the monopoly sanctioning agency, then controlling the production process. 
 If the drivers are united by multicar teams, Nascar will lose some of its leverage over the producers. The Roush and Hendricks teams, for instance, could come together and boycott certain Nextel Cup events if the drivers and teams are not offered a larger share of the spoils. Worse still, they could threaten to form a new racing circuit. 
 They may also begin to demand that races be transferred to the more modern and longer tracks that are not owned by the speedway corporation. And if race sites were selected based on merit rather than on ownership, the profits of the Nascar/International Speedway Corporation cartel would shrink. If France were truly concerned about new drivers getting a fair shake, there would be a straightforward solution. The Cup series today has 36 official races. France says he is reluctant to expand the number because drivers need time off. 
 Fair enough. Nascar could mandate that each driver be limited to 36 official races a year, but still sanction, say, 45 Nextel Cup races. That would be a 25 percent expansion in the number of races and potential entries -- and new drivers would have a greater opportunity to win.
 Nascar output would expand to new tracks and new regions of the country. Higher output and service to new areas would improve consumer satisfaction. It would be a victory for fans, for drivers, for independent track owners and for the economies of new regions. The only loser would be the France family.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian France, Nascar's chief executive, said competitive balance was his concern when he proposed limiting the number of cars team owners could control. (Photo by Terry Renna/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); NASCAR RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); FAMILY (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (67%); CATERING SERVICES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL SPEEDWAY CORP (84%)

TICKER: ISCA (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711219 OTHER SPECTATOR SPORTS (84%); NAICS711212 RACETRACKS (84%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



127 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 11-06-05: ESSAY; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1859 words

HEADLINE: Reserved

BYLINE: By Roger Lowenstein. 
Roger Lowenstein is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Power, as Jimmy Breslin once wrote, is the illusion of power. Few are more dependent upon cultivating the illusion than the chairman of the Federal Reserve. After the last mostly prosperous 18 years, no economic figure in the world is thought to be as influential as Alan Greenspan. Every blessing that has befallen America -- impressive growth rate, high productivity, low inflation -- is laid at Greenspan's door. So, too, our periodic misfortunes, like the occasional bubble or bust or the recent inflationary uptick. Senator John McCain once joked that if he were elected president and Greenspan were to die, he would prop him in his chair and hope no one noticed. But is it possible that no one would notice -- that prosperity, or sound monetary management, at any rate, would go on?
The most oracular and idiosyncratic of Fed chairmen, Greenspan has personalized the office like no one before. But while he has been issuing those Delphic pronouncements, a funny thing has happened to central banking. It has become more normative -- less an art and more a discipline. Central bankers have gotten better. They have also gotten luckier. 
 When Greenspan's reign began in August 1987, long-term interest rates touched 9 percent. Today they are half that. It challenges credulity to think a single man could have fashioned such a tectonic shift. After all, long-term rates and inflation have also fallen in every other highly industrialized country (though their economies did not grow as quickly as ours). Greenspan, like other bankers, rode a forgiving current as nations regulated less and traded more. World economies benefited from the software revolution and, until recently, falling energy prices. And each central bank, including the Fed, was tugged along the path of monetary discipline by its neighbors. In a closed economy, in which only dollars matter, the Fed alone could regulate liquidity; in a global economy, it must collaborate. This is why Greenspan has been exhorting China to revalue -- and why he needs London and Frankfurt to avoid inflation almost as much as Washington. It may bruise American pride to think of Ben S. Bernanke, nominated to succeed Greenspan, as resembling another dully professional Eurobanker, but that image may be closer to his future than that of the man pulling the levers behind the curtain.
 Before Congress created the Federal Reserve System in 1913, America did rely on monetary wizards -- often J.P. Morgan -- to bail it out of panics. The Fed was meant to replace them, to be a banker of last resort. Also, the country wanted to free itself from relying on the Bank of England to finance its agricultural exports. But the notion of limited power was inherent in the Fed's creation. Farm states were wary of letting Eastern bankers control the money supply; thus, Congress established a network of semiautonomous regional banks. The chairman of the Fed is, in this network, merely the first among equals, one of seven governors who preside over the federal system.
 For years, he was barely even that. During the 1930's, the Fed was blamed for either causing or deepening the Great Depression. To diminish its potential for further mischief, Franklin Roosevelt turned it into the handmaiden of the Treasury Department. During World War II, the Fed meekly agreed to keep interest rates at 2.5 percent, thus letting Treasury finance the war at a price of its own choosing. President Truman reluctantly acknowledged the Fed's need for autonomy, but the deed came slower than the pledge. 
 In 1965, after voting to bump up interest rates, William McChesney Martin Jr., the only Fed chairman to hold the job longer than Greenspan, was summoned to Lyndon Johnson's ranch and accused of putting himself above the presidency. According to Robert P. Bremner, Martin's biographer, Martin was subjected to the classic Johnson punishment: a hair-raising ride at 60 miles per hour over dirt roads with the president at the wheel. L.B.J.'s demeaning treatment reflected Martin's more subservient view of his job (you could scarcely imagine Greenspan submitting to such humiliation). He failed to pursue a tight money policy when it counted, and by the time he retired, in 1970, inflation was 6 percent and beginning to escalate out of control.
 Even a truly ''independent'' chairman cannot act alone. He has only one of 12 votes on the Federal Open Market Committee, the body that sets the ''federal funds'' rate -- the interest rate that banks charge for overnight loans. A Fed chairman who cannot command an overwhelming majority of his fellow governors, as well as of the regional bank presidents, will be perceived as weak, and so will his policy. When Paul Volcker was appointed Fed chairman in 1979, inflation was raging. In his first attempt to raise rates, he suffered a split vote. The market reacted badly. Inflation depends on expectations; to stop raising prices, business needed to be sure that the Fed chief was truly in charge. 
 Volcker quickly gained wide respect and decisively broke the inflationary spiral. He put the country through two rough recessions in the process. This suggests another limitation on the Fed's power: its principal weapon is rather blunt. In theory, when the Fed tightens or loosens the overnight rate, the impact courses through the economy, affecting the rates available to corporations, homeowners, credit-card holders and so forth, over both the short and long terms. But the process is indirect and not always effective.
 Given that the Fed is trying to regulate a complex modern economy -- everything from mortgage rates to industrial output to the stock market to employment -- the federal funds rate is a rather imprecise tool. To be even somewhat successful, the chairman has had to rely on unwritten powers and influence people's expectations. In particular, he has had to impress the bond market, for it is bond traders who set long-term interest rates, which have a more direct impact on investment and economic growth.
 In 1987, only two months into the job, Greenspan faced a daunting hurdle to managing expectations -- a stock-market crash. The next morning he issued a terse statement proclaiming the readiness of the Fed to ''provide liquidity.'' Lou Crandall, chief economist of Wrightson ICAP, a bond market research firm, says he wondered: ''Yeah? Like how?'' No less than inflation, ''liquidity is a state of mind,'' according to Crandall. ''Once it is lost, the Fed has no magic wand to bring it back.''
 People cannot be forced to invest, and no one who lacks faith in the system will do so. After the crash, the highly unlikely rumor spread that the Fed was buying stocks. The rumor was not unhelpful. People believed that Greenspan was doing something. And so, they recommenced to take risk.
 Greenspan has been especially adroit at using the power of the pulpit to heighten his seeming omnipotence. The chairman appears before Congress, twice a year, to expound on the condition of the economy. There and in his other public appearances, he has mastered a syntax at once knowing and a trifle obscure. Unlike other officials -- even the president -- he is not subjected to press conferences or public interviews, where he might seem diminished. The Fed chairman also sits at the helm of a remarkable information network and an awesome organization. He feeds off some 200 economists, who pounce on every bit of economic news, every speech by a corporate C.E.O., and digest and analyze their significance. Each Monday, he convenes his fellow governors so that each may share his or her outlook. It is only then, having received the collective wisdom as to the state of America's economy, that the chairman proposes a policy response. ''One reason his pronouncements are viewed so heavily,'' says Kevin Hassett, a former Fed economist now with the American Enterprise Institute, ''is he really does know the most about what's going on of anyone on earth.''
 The disinclination to vote against Greenspan is considerable, but the board's near-unanimity in recent years has been based on more than a cult of personality. According to Alice Rivlin, a governor during the Greenspan era, the times when the chairman had to twist arms were few. One was in the mid-90's, when he recognized that computers were making workers more productive. Sooner or later, however, the board would have arrived there without him. Although Greenspan is famously unconventional, willing to examine the most unusual data, the dirty secret about central banking is that, more and more, consensus, not personal idiosyncrasy, prevails. By making the workings of the Fed more transparent, Greenspan has ensured that the Fed's mystique will fade, and that in the post-Greenspan era, personality will matter even less.
 Nowadays, markets rarely move when the Fed takes action, because its actions are anticipated. There is simply more agreement among economists over what the Fed should and will do. In lay terms, the job is to nip inflation before it arises, and relax as the threat recedes.
 John Taylor, a former under secretary of the Treasury, once translated the factors he thought should guide the governors in setting the federal funds rate into an algebraic formula. To his surprise, the formula turned out to be predictive both for the Fed and for central banks overseas. William Poole, president of the St. Louis Fed, affirmed this in a speech at the Cato Institute just before Bernanke was nominated. While not suggesting that the Federal Open Market Committee saw itself as ''implementing an equation,'' Poole cited the Taylor Rule as evidence that ''the general contours of F.O.M.C. policy actions are broadly predictable.'' 
 Any process that a formula can come close to replicating is unlikely to be the fruit of a single bureaucrat's genius. And however adeptly the chairman has negotiated the economic cycles, the influence of broader, superseding trends is evident over time. In a backhanded way, Greenspan has acknowledged his limitations. Over the past two years, the Fed has raised the funds rate 11 times, yet long-term interest rates have failed to rise with them. Greenspan has called this a ''conundrum.''
 Last March, a Fed governor proposed that perhaps the explanation lay outside our borders. We know that Asia is selling us more goods than it is buying from us. Its surplus has been reinvested in America -- in the stock market during the 90's, more recently in bonds. A surplus of capital depresses the price of money -- thus, Asia's surplus liquidity has kept the lid on U.S. interest rates. This specific chain of events has been much debated, but it is indisputable that markets, including capital markets, are interconnected. Over the past several decades, Americans have gotten used to the notion that the prices of toys and televisions may be set overseas. Increasingly, the same may be true of our money. If so, the Fed chairman of the 21st century will share his influence not only with his peers in Washington but also with bankers around the world. The governor who proposed this theory, of course, was Ben Bernanke. A becomingly modest start.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The first Federal Reserve Board in 1914. (Photograph from Corbis Bettmann)
 No one behind the curtain: the boardroom of the Fed. (Photograph by Dennis Brack/IPN)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); INTEREST RATES (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); AGRICULTURE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



128 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Echoes of 1986? Not in Bush's Tax Reform Panel

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
TWENTY years ago, President Ronald Reagan found himself politically weakened by large budget deficits, the Nicaraguan contra imbroglio and a Congress that was partly controlled by his Democratic opponents.
 Yet Mr. Reagan managed to push through a sweeping overhaul of the tax code that, at least for a few years, stood as a victory of bipartisan common sense over high-priced special interests.
That 1986 tax reform achieved two simple but powerful goals: it sharply reduced nominal tax rates and eliminated vast numbers of loopholes, special preferences and bizarre tax-avoidance schemes.
 Could President Bush achieve a comparable breakthrough? Not unless he changes his modus operandi in fundamental ways. 
 Mr. Bush took a first step toward tax overhaul on Tuesday, when his hand-picked advisory panel delivered two broad proposals for again purging the tax code of its complexity, corruption and cost to the economy. 
 But cleaning up the tax code creates winners and losers, and Mr. Bush has shown little appetite for confronting losers. For evidence, look no further than the corporate tax overhaul last year. That 700-page behemoth contained hundreds of special-interest tax breaks, including many that the Bush administration had openly opposed. But Mr. Bush, passively staying out of the fray, ultimately swallowed all of them. 
 One year ago, Mr. Bush proclaimed that tax overhaul would be one of his two big-vision goals for the second term, coming right after the overhaul of Social Security. But Tuesday, it was hard to avoid the sense that Mr. Bush's tax plan is headed toward the same place as his Social Security plan: nowhere.
 Mr. Bush himself said nothing about the long-awaited report. Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, who received the recommendations, said they amounted to ''a starting place.''
 On the tax issue, in contrast to the Social Security plan, Mr. Bush's biggest obstacle has little to do with uncompromising opposition by Democrats. Rather, Mr. Bush's effort is more likely to die as a result of constraints he put on his own tax panel and, by extension, on himself. Those constraints made it impossible for his panel to offer with a sweeping plan that would galvanize either the public or the Republican Party's true believers in a radical overhaul. At the same time, the panel's recommendations would provoke opposition from armies of special-interest groups with something to lose.
 Under Mr. Bush's explicit marching orders, the panel's proposals had to be ''revenue neutral'' and to assume that his tax cuts would be made permanent. He also ordered the panel to retain homeowners' tax breaks, one of the most expensive tax expenditures in the entire code, and to protect tax breaks for charities.
 Not surprisingly, the resulting plan was sober but uninspiring.
 The panel would eliminate the alternative minimum tax, or A.M.T., a parallel tax originally aimed at the very rich that is now set to engulf millions of middle-income families every year -- especially families with children. Eliminating that tax would be a major achievement, costing $1.2 trillion over the next decade, but it is an issue that has yet to affect most taxpayers and thus is unlikely to generate much excitement.
 The panel's main proposal would indeed simplify many aspects of the tax code -- for example, by consolidating a wide range of tax breaks for savings and retirement accounts. It would greatly benefit wealthy taxpayers by sharply reducing taxes on investment income, but it would also cut back on tax breaks that primarily benefit the rich. 
 However sensible those ideas may be, they fall far short of a radical overhaul. Neither of the proposals would have replaced today's system with a flat tax or a pure consumption tax, the goal of many Republican conservatives. More important, neither of the proposals would significantly lower existing tax rates -- a crucial attraction of the 1986 overhaul.
 Staunch conservatives who would like to replace the income tax entirely with a national sales tax were underwhelmed. ''Nibbling around the edges,'' complained Representative John Linder, a Georgia Republican.
 ''Small and quite complicated, and that's exactly what we're trying to get away from,'' said Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina. 
 At the same time, both proposals immediately provoked opposition from industry groups and their well-paid lobbyists. Mortgage lenders immediately lashed out at the panel's recommendation to trim back the huge tax deduction for interest payments on home mortgages. Life insurance companies wailed about provisions to tax the earnings on insurance policies. Big-business groups complained about taxing -- albeit very gingerly -- employer-paid health insurance.
 Such complaints are inevitable when tax breaks are up for debate. The problem is that special-interest pleaders have extraordinary political leverage if there isn't a big idea animating the overall project. 
 One of the panel's boldest ideas, for example, is to scale back the huge tax deduction on mortgage interest, and to use that money to offset the cost of losing the alternative minimum tax. The mortgage deduction has been sacrosanct ever since the income tax was created almost a century ago. It benefits tens of millions of families and is supposed to make homeownership more affordable and thus more widespread.
 But the panel offered a trenchant critique of the current deduction. It noted that the rate of homeownership in the United States is the same or lower than it is in Britain and Australia, which have no mortgage interest deduction. If there were no tax deduction for mortgage interest, house prices would almost certainly be lower, and the net cost of homeownership -- after a potentially distressing adjustment -- would be about the same.
 THE panel also noted that 70 percent of American tax filers received no benefit from the mortgage deduction in 2002, even though nearly 69 percent of families were homeowners. Fifty-five percent of the tax benefits went to the top 12 percent of taxpayers who earned more than $100,000 a year.
 Given that critique, the truly bold approach would have been to scrap the mortgage deduction altogether and free up tens of billions of dollars that could be used to lower overall tax rates.
 But the panel could not do that, because Mr. Bush had ordered it to protect incentives for homeownership. 
 As a result, the panel proposed two big changes. First, it suggested linking the ceiling for mortgage interest deductions to the average price of homes in each region of the country. In effect, deductions could not be taken for mortgages beyond $412,000, rather than $1.1 million under current law.
 Second, the panel proposed changing the tax deduction for mortgage interest to a tax credit. The advantage is that a tax credit is worth the same amount of money to all taxpayers, regardless of their income. A deduction against taxable income, by contrast, is worth far more to high-income people in the 35 percent tax bracket than to those in the 15 percent bracket.
 All of those ideas are thoughtful and defensible. But it is hard to imagine that they will prompt an outpouring of public support. That leaves the heavy lifting to political insiders and seasoned lobbyists -- precisely the people least likely to push for fairness and simplicity.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, left, received the tax advisory panel's report from former Senators Connie Mack, right, and John B. Breaux, center. (Photo by Susan Walsh/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX REFORM (96%); TAX LAW (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAX FRAUD (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); CORRUPTION (70%); CHARITIES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); CONNIE MACK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NICARAGUA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



129 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: The Bad Signs Are All Pointing Up

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
WITH September and October -- historically the two worst months on the calendar for the stock market -- out of the way with minimal damage, one analyst is gearing up for a year-end rally. 
 ''After a 4 to 7 percent decline in the major averages from their midsummer highs, the market appears to be in a bottoming process,'' said Richard McCabe, technical research analyst at Merrill Lynch. ''This should eventually provide the foundation for a late 2005-early 2006 recovery during which those averages could moderately exceed, or at least challenge, their summer peaks.''
Just as any good drama needs the hero to overcome a formidable obstacle before there can be a happy ending, the market needed to fall last month to set up the chance for a strong 2005 finish, Mr. McCabe suggested in a note to Merrill clients.
 ''Since 1950, the month of October has registered a net loss, as measured by the S.& P. 500, on 22 occasions,'' he noted. ''However, 18 of those 22 down Octobers were followed by a net gain, averaging 5.9 percent, for the combined months of November and December.'' After a decline of 2.16 percent last month in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, he said, ''the prospects appear to be favorable for a year-end rally.''
 As a technical analyst, Mr. McCabe is less interested in corporate earnings and economic data than in patterns on stock charts and indicators of sentiment and momentum that have been shown to foretell moves in share prices. Those measures send the same message as the calendar, in his opinion.
 ''Sentiment indicators continue to show a healthy shift to caution or bearishness,'' he said. Lopsided negativity among investors often precedes a rally.
 Measures of internal market strength, such as the difference in the number of issues gaining and losing each day, and the trading volume in the two respective groups, also point to rising share prices, he said. He warned, though, that ''this does not rule out some further downside tests in coming weeks'' before the advance.

DATA WATCH -- The first test may come on Thursday, with the report on the nation's trade balance for September. Economists polled by Bloomberg News estimate a deficit of $61 billion, up from $59 billion in August. Later that day, the University of Michigan releases its preliminary assessment of consumer confidence for November. The Bloomberg prediction is for a reading of 76.7, up from an October figure of 74.2.
 The state of another deficit will also be announced on Thursday. The government is estimated to have spent $51.9 billion more in October than it took in, according to the Bloomberg poll. That would be a narrowing of the monthly fiscal deficit from $57.3 billion in September.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the monthly Balance of Trade, measured in billions, from 2004 through estimated 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (70%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); PRICE INCREASES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BLOOMBERG LP (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (72%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (72%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



130 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: And Remember, Vote Early and Often

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
FOR all the tens of millions of dollars that Jon S. Corzine, the Democratic candidate for governor, has spent on advertising, polling and hiring some of the nation's best political consultants, his fortunes on Tuesday could hinge on the whims of a moody mayor in Newark and a handful of prideful county chairmen.
 And for Douglas R. Forrester, the Republican candidate, who has pretty much been building toward this moment since his unsuccessful bid for the United States Senate in 2002, all of his painstaking efforts may be undone by the pique of a handful of well-organized conservatives.
In the end, the election may boil down to the last unanswered question in a race in which a significant number of voters remain undecided and even uncommitted: who will be able to get their supporters to the polls? ''Turnout is obviously the big variable here,'' said David Rebovich, managing director of the Rider Institute for New Jersey Politics. ''Both candidates are investing heavily to get their people to the polls, but neither of them has exactly run a perfect campaign. Who knows?'' 
 For their part, the campaigns are doing everything they can to avoid leaving things to chance. The Corzine team has, not surprisingly, lavished millions of dollars on county organizations, unions and urban churches in the hopes of reaping the benefits of a well-financed get-out-the-vote operation -- running phone banks, updating databases, knocking on doors and driving supporters to polling places. Party officials say that there are thousands of volunteers lined up for Election Day, many who will be paid $75 to $100. 
 And the Forrester campaign has made what aides have said will be an unprecedented level of investment in its effort to get voters to the polls. Those efforts will be aided by the recent pledge of nearly $600,000 from the Republican Governors Association specifically designated for voter-turnout operations.
 Although Mr. Corzine has consistently led in public polls throughout the campaign, the last week has been difficult because his embittered former wife, Joanne, joined others who have publicly accused him of essentially buying the support of New Jersey's Democratic leaders.
 Should the race tighten in the final days, and should many voters stay home because of their disenchantment with such a negative campaign, an effective turnout operation could prove to be a decisive edge.
 Both campaigns have their work cut out for them, though perhaps not in equal measure.
 Mr. Corzine -- who will be able to count on a fully functional party organization as well as on public employee unions, paid workers and what the state party promises will be thousands of volunteers -- would seem to have a natural advantage in this regard. 
 Unions, in particular, represent a unique advantage for the Democratic candidate. Despite the high political cost he has paid after the disclosure that he gave $470,000 to Carla Katz, a former companion, who heads the state's biggest public union, Mr. Corzine will benefit from his close relationship with labor. ''Their help is going to be enormous to Jon Corzine in terms of getting out the vote,'' said Leo Troy, a professor of economics at Rutgers University. 
 Mr. Corzine will also be able to count on the help of black church leaders upon whom he has lavished more than $2.5 million in contributions, helping to earn the gratitude and aid of influential figures like the Rev. Reginald Jackson, executive director of the Black Ministers Council of New Jersey. 
 And perhaps most important, Mr. Corzine will be looking for a return on his extensive investments of time and money in New Jersey's ascendant Democratic leaders.
 The question this time is whether they will be in the mood to cooperate -- particularly after the way Mr. Corzine signaled his independence by clashing with the Bergen County Democratic chairman over who should fill a vacant State Senate seat. The senator, after all, has run on the slogan ''unbought, unbossed,'' and has taken pains to dispel the notion that he is beholden to the party's power brokers. Now, in the aftermath of his wife's accusations, Mr. Corzine will be under even more pressure to demonstrate his political independence.
 So far, his efforts to distance himself from some of these bosses have not gone smoothly. 
 Take Sharpe James, the Newark mayor, who largely sat on his hands in recent weeks -- a crucial time when he might have been lining up important get-out-the-vote operations. Mr. Corzine recently aroused Mr. James's ire by seeming to embrace a political rival, Cory Booker, and by criticizing the construction of an ice hockey arena in Newark -- something that has been pressed vigorously by the mayor.
 In dramatic fashion, Mr. James declared last week that he would be back on board for the campaign. ''We're going to do it like we always do,'' he said. ''I plan to make up now for three months of inactivity by working 24 hours a day. I'm going to be going strong, going like a warrior.''
 Still, the flurry of activity raises the question of whether a few days' work can make up for months of inaction, and of how many other Democratic leaders have been holding back because of disagreements with the candidate.
 But the challenges of herding stray voters may be far greater for Mr. Forrester. In part, that is simply because he is a New Jersey Republican, meaning that his most intense support is found not in convenient and accessible clumps in the cities, but spread throughout the diffuse suburbs and rural parts of the state.
 He will be reaching out to those supporters with little help from a party organization that has been weakened in recent years as Democrats have come to dominate most of the state. 
 The Forrester campaign has consciously tried to make up for this wobbly infrastructure by investing heavily in its turnout operation, with many campaign workers earning $150 to transport voters to polling places.
 But those logistical plans may turn out to be irrelevant when compared with the more pressing prospect of a mutiny among conservatives, who have tended to be the best-organized component of the Republican Party and who would have to constitute the backbone of any Forrester victory.
 ''The guys who get up and go vote in an election like this are your solid hard-core activists, your base,'' said Steve Lonegan, the conservative mayor of Bogota, who ran against Mr. Forrester for the Republican nomination. ''These are people who go out at night putting up signs in the rain, work in front of shopping malls, knock on doors. I don't see them being energized for Doug. He certainly hasn't got his troops together.'' 
 The assessment was similarly grim, and the uncertainty as great, among some anti-abortion groups, who in recent years have been an important source of organizational support for Republican candidates but who have objected to Mr. Forrester's emphasis on his positions in favor of abortion rights since the primary. 
 ''There are an awful lot of people who are going to stay home or just write in a pro-life candidate,'' said Marie Tasy, legislative director of New Jersey Right to Life. ''We're still trying to get people out to support our candidates in Assembly races. But now it's tough to know what's going to happen.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Voting machines being taken out of storage at the Essex County Board of Elections warehouse in Newark to be sent to polling places for Tuesday's balloting. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); VOLUNTEERS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



131 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Routine Changes, or 'Bait and Switch'?; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 1787 words

HEADLINE: Fewer Jobs and More Condos, Ratner's Opponents Complain

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
When the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn was unveiled in 2003, pamphlets given out at a news conference said it would feature ''iconic'' new buildings while balancing ''the needs of the existing communities and those of the people who would live, work in or visit the new complex.''
 It would provide 10,000 office jobs and more than 4,000 units of rental housing, half of it set aside for low- and middle-income families. Its centerpiece would be a Frank Gehry-designed arena for the Nets basketball team, topped by a ''lushly landscaped'' public park with ''outstanding panoramic vistas facing Manhattan.''
Most of those features are still recognizable in the project's most recent iteration, described in planning documents released in September and in the latest designs from the developer, Forest City Ratner Companies. 
 The Nets arena remains the centerpiece. The tallest building, dubbed Miss Brooklyn, will bring Mr. Gehry's trademark titanium waves to Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues. The other towers -- some smaller than before, some larger -- still stand amid acres of green space carefully sculptured to welcome residents of the adjoining streets.
 In other respects, however, the Atlantic Yards envisioned today looks very different from the one unveiled nearly two years ago. The project's size has jumped by a million square feet, and its dollar cost by 40 percent, to $3.5 billion. Commercial space, once a substantial portion of the overall square footage, has dropped dramatically, replaced by thousands of for-sale apartments and a hotel.
 Nearly three-quarters of the office jobs originally projected are gone; the new apartments do not count as part of the so-called 50-50 agreement under which 2,250 apartments are to be rented below market rates, and the park on the arena's roof is to be accessible only to residents.
 ''Projects change, markets change,'' said Forest City Ratner's executive vice president for development, James P. Stuckey. ''When you do a project over a long period of time, it's very difficult -- unless you're Nostradamus -- to figure out what the market changes and land changes and all those things are going to be.''
 But critics of the project say some of the changes, particularly the reduction in office jobs and the addition of thousands of market-rate condominiums, make Atlantic Yards into a less sweet deal for Brooklyn residents. The Democratic mayoral candidate, Fernando Ferrer, recently attacked the project as ''the twin brother of Mike Bloomberg's West Side stadium boondoggle.''
 Some opponents go further, saying the developer lured politicians and community groups with grand promises and then backtracked after the spotlight had passed. 
 ''They were willing to say anything to get community support, and that is why it is dangerous for the community to accept promises from the outset,'' said the Rev. Clinton M. Miller, a member of the Downtown Brooklyn Leadership Coalition. That group began talks with the developer over jobs and housing in 2004 but has since come out against the project.
 Several factors have converged to raise the project's price tag, including increasing construction costs, the above-market prices the developer has paid to buy out residents who live on the project's footprint, the extra $50 million the developer offered for rights to build over the Metropolitan Transportation Authority rail yard, and the cost of renovating the yard itself.
 Officials of Forest City Ratner said they eventually realized that they would have to reduce the amount of commercial space, to accommodate condominium units that would help pay for the project, including the below-market rental housing.
 But large real estate projects are subject to ''the butterfly effect'': Change one thing, and another changes.
 Because estimates of office jobs were based on the project's commercial square footage, less commercial space meant fewer office jobs. The earlier estimates were also based on a ratio of one job per 200 square feet of space, but the Empire State Development Corporation, which released the September planning documents, uses a less generous ratio of one job per 250 square feet of space, amplifying the reduction.
 The move to include more housing also increased the total square footage of the project. Because the ceilings of residential units are several feet lower than those of commercial units, however, it did not require more floors in each building. Indeed, the project will have one building less than originally planned, lowering its overall density somewhat.
 Critics said, though, that even the reduced job estimates were overstated, because they do not account for likely vacancy rates or for jobs lost when businesses currently occupying the site are forced out. Based on those factors, they said, the net gain from the project would be fewer than 1,000 new office jobs.
 Officials of Forest City Ratner -- the development partner in building a new Midtown headquarters for The New York Times Company -- gave several reasons for the switch to a private park. One was that as the buildings rimming the arena were re-mapped to house more residential units, there were fewer public access points for the roof of the arena. Another was that the city building code would have treated the park as a public assembly area, requiring cumbersome safety features. Finally, Mr. Stuckey said, discussions with planning experts revealed that ''generally, open space up in the air doesn't work -- people don't use it.''
 While the new plan closes the park to the public, he said, it adds more park acreage to the overall project.
 ''We took what was on the roof and put it on the ground where people can use it,'' he said.
 It may be the changes to the projections of new housing that have provoked the sharpest outcry.
 ''The problem is, Bertha Lewis and Mayor Bloomberg and Ratner are out there calling it a 50-50 plan, not a 50-50 plan just for rentals,'' said Daniel Goldstein, the spokesman for Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn. ''It's a bait and switch. What they announced as a revolutionary housing deal is not.'' Ms. Lewis, executive director of the advocacy group Acorn, signed the housing agreement last spring with Bruce Ratner, president and chief executive officer of Forest City Ratner and principal owner of the New Jersey Nets.
 The 50-50 deal and the more generous job numbers were frequently cited by politicians and others supporting the project, and favoring Mr. Ratner's bid to buy air rights over the rail yards for tens of millions of dollars less than their appraised worth.
 In letters dated last June and July -- weeks after Mr. Stuckey outlined the potential conversion to more residential units at a May hearing -- more than two dozen union leaders and elected officials expressed their support for Mr. Ratner's bid. Many of them cited the developer's earlier promise of 10,000 permanent jobs in the project's commercial portion and the so-called 50-50 housing deal with Acorn.
 ''The more than 10,000 jobs that will be created at Atlantic Yards will be a historic achievement for the future of Brooklyn's economy,'' read a letter from the Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz. Similar letters came from Senator Charles E. Schumer, Public Advocate Betsy Gotbaum and several members of the City Council.
 In an interview, Mr. Stuckey, the executive of Forest City Ratner, suggested that Forest City Ratner was paying a price for being forthcoming about its plans. He noted that the developer had met with dozens of community groups, had appeared at two Council hearings though it had no legal obligation to do so, and had publicly released pages and pages of documents before it would have been required to.
 ''What's interesting is that we've been out talking to people for two years. And this week, the approval process began,'' he said in an interview in October. ''Here we are opening ourselves up -- tremendous transparency, for two years. Yet the criticism is, 'Wait a second, they didn't tell us something about the evolution of their planning process before the public process began'? Just think about what that means.''
 ''It's Orwellian, almost,'' Mr. Stuckey added.
 The agreement signed last May between Mr. Ratner and Ms. Lewis applied only to the 4,500 rental units envisioned in the original plan. But it included a provision that if the developer added more residential units, the firm would develop 600 to 1,000 moderately priced for-sale units on or near the project site, in effect offering something close to a 50-50 ratio for all the housing associated with the project.
 At the time, officials of Forest City Ratner said they were already contemplating adding 1,500 condominium units, in part because community leaders had pushed Mr. Ratner to include more housing in the project. That would have given the project 6,000 units of housing. But during a City Council presentation in May, Mr. Stuckey said the developer was contemplating adding an extra 1,300 for-sale units, bringing the total to 7,300 units. 
 Those additions were specified in the September planning document, cementing the transformation of Atlantic Yards into essentially a large residential development with an arena and a relatively small amount of office and retail space attached to it.
 Forest City Ratner officials said that they had remained faithful to the Acorn agreement, which did not require that half of the new for-sale units be priced affordably. But if the developer chooses to build the maximum of 1,000 moderately priced for-sale units described in the Acorn agreement and builds them off-site, then the total number of for-sale and rental units associated with the project would reach 8,300, of which 3,250 would be priced below market rates -- about 40 percent.
 Much of the city's moderately priced housing is built through an arrangement called the 80-20 Program, under which city and state agencies subsidize construction projects by providing developers with tax-exempt bonds . In exchange, the developers set aside 20 percent of the apartment units for tenants who earn 50 percent or less of the area's median income.
 Ms. Lewis said that Acorn remained a strong supporter of the project and of the agreement with Forest City Ratner. But she said she was negotiating with the company, and with the government agencies that help subsidize housing, to help make a greater proportion of the for-sale apartments available below market prices.
 ''We know that when we get through this thing, half of all the housing is going to be affordable -- half of the rental, half of everything else,'' she said. ''We haven't gotten down to the last part of this. But our whole principle is 50-50.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A development executive of Forest City Ratner Companies, James P. Stuckey, looking out over the Atlantic Yards last month. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)
The basketball arena designed by Frank Gehry, at left, is the centerpiece of the project planned by Forest City Ratner in Brooklyn. The development will have less commercial space than originally envisioned. (Photo by Gehry Partners, LLP)(pg. 41)
 The Atlantic Yards project, depicted above, will include more housing. (Photo by Gehry Partners, LLP)(pg. 46)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (74%); BASKETBALL (73%); FAMILY (71%); MAYORS (71%); POLITICS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RATNER COS (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (84%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



132 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2696 words

HEADLINE: Taking a Closer Look At the Two Candidates

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
NEW JERSEY takes its politics salty, overheated and occasionally laced with razor blades. 
 This year's governor's race -- pitting a Republican businessman, Douglas R. Forrester, against the Democratic hopeful, United States Senator Jon S. Corzine -- has been no different. The two candidates have poured at least $30 million of their own money into advertisements and tactics that turned nasty well before the leaves changed colors.
Most of the smearing, as nearly anyone who watches television can attest, has involved two issues: personal integrity and the state's property taxes, the highest per person in the nation. The advertisements for Mr. Forrester have sought to portray Senator Corzine as a friend of higher taxes, government waste and discredited Democrats, including former Gov. James E. McGreevey and former Senator Robert Torricelli, who both left office under a cloud of accusations involving corruption and cronyism. 
 Senator Corzine, in turn, has run ads claiming that Mr. Forrester and his pharmacy benefits company profited off the backs of ''working families and seniors.'' He has also attacked Mr. Forrester for aligning with allegedly right-wing tax organizations, and for failing to come up with a fiscal plan that would relieve the weight of taxes on homeowners and keep the state solvent. 
 In short, much of the campaign has been about positioning -- whether Mr. Forrester leans toward the same right wing of the Republican Party as President Bush, and whether Senator Corzine is cut from the same muddied cloth as the state Democrats who have been enmeshed in scandal. 
 Keeping track of the issues amid all of this has been as difficult as maneuvering through the Meadowlands parking lot in search of an exit. And the candidates' relentless focus on property taxes and corruption has yielded little insight into their specific proposals, frequently devolving into simplified slogans and semi-solutions. 
 But distinctions can be made with just days before Election Day. A close look at each candidate's record, combined with public statements, policy papers and interviews over the course of the campaign, will show a handful of areas where the candidates diverge. 

Property Taxes
A 30% Cut Over 3 Years, Or 10% Back Each of the Next 4
 New Jersey's property taxes are the highest in the country. While the average tax bill nationwide was $971 a person in 2002, according to the Tax Foundation, a nonprofit research group, here in New Jersey the average was $1,872. Connecticut, at $1,733, came in second and New York ranked fourth. 
 Mr. Forrester and Senator Corzine have talked incessantly about the issue for months, prompted by opinion polls showing it is the primary concern among voters. And in the handful of candidate debates, each has fought to undercut the other's proposal for lifting the tax burden. 
 Yet beneath the bluster, their plans sound remarkably similar. Mr. Forrester has labeled his initiative ''30 in 3'' because it would cut taxes by 30 percent in three years. For Senator Corzine, it is ''40 in 4'' -- a proposed 10 percent tax refund for each of the next four years in what amounts to an extension of the state's current rebate program.
 The cost of each proposal is the crux of where the plans diverge.
 Senator Corzine has estimated that his plan would cost about $7.67 billion, while Mr. Forrester has said that his plan would probably cost $1.4 billion in the first year, $2.1 billion in the second year and $3.2 billion in the third year, for a total of $6.7 billion. 
 Critics of Mr. Forrester's plan say that he is underestimating its cost; they put the price tag at $15.4 billion over four years. 
 Both candidates said that they would pay for their plans largely by streamlining parts of the state budget, including the state's prescription drug buying plans and other purchasing operations. But critics of both plans have questioned whether cuts and consolidation would be enough to pay for either plan. Moreover, they say that the proposals offer only temporary relief and sidestep the more important issue of structural reform. 
 New Jersey's high property taxes are, after all, largely a function of expensive local services combined with limitations on how money can be raised to pay for them. In at least 33 states, municipalities can raise money through sales taxes or other means. This is not legal in New Jersey, and neither Mr. Forrester nor Senator Corzine address the issue of how to help local governments pay the cost of running municipal services over the long term.
 As is the case in Congress, there are no plans for raising taxes -- just cutting them.

Corruption
Two Roles for Watchdogs And Who Watches Them
 In a state that has spawned more than 75 corruption indictments in the past four years, where Governor McGreevey resigned in disgrace amid a sex scandal, it should come as no surprise that the governor's race has often focused on a single thorny question: What can be done to clean house? 
 The answer is complicated, and each candidate has offered a laundry list of potential catalysts for change. 
 Both plans start with a constitutional amendment that would give the state an elected fiscal watchdog who would be charged with investigating corruption and auditing government agencies. Senator Corzine's official, a comptroller, would refer cases to the attorney general and would be elected every four years to make the office accountable to voters. 
 Mr. Forrester's anti-corruption crusader, called an auditor general, would have the power to file criminal charges on his or her own. The auditor would be restricted to a single six-year term -- to keep the office from being politicized, Mr. Forrester said -- and would be forced to wait two years before running for another position.
 The candidates also disagree on New Jersey's practice of dual office-holding, which allows a mayor, for example, to also serve as a state senator or member of the assembly. Mr. Forrester said he would ban state legislators from holding other elected offices. But Senator Corzine said that because serving in the Legislature is only a part-time job --and the most qualified person might already hold an elected position -- dual office-holding should be allowed. 
 The two candidates seem to merge on plans for ending pay-to-play -- the practice in which government contractors make political donations. In May, Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey signed a law prohibiting the awarding of state contracts to individuals or businesses that contribute to a candidate for governor or the Legislature, or to a political action committee. Mr. Forrester and Senator Corzine have both pledged to extend the ban to those who contribute to county and municipal elections. 
 They have also said that they would end the practice of ''wheeling,'' the transfer of money between political organizations, giving county power brokers the ability to spread their influence throughout the state. And they would like to ban pension padding -- in which state officials are promoted to higher-paying jobs not long before retirement, allowing their pensions to be based on the higher salaries. 
 And the two candidates have slightly different proposals aimed at closing the revolving door between government and business. Under a law passed last year, the governor and cabinet officers cannot lobby government until they have been out of office for at least a year. Senator Corzine wants to extend the one-year ban on lobbying to all senior staff members in the executive branch and those who serve on public boards and commissions. 
 Mr. Forrester would like to extend the ban for the governor, cabinet-level officers and senior staff members to three years. For people who serve on the state's independent commissions and boards, he has also proposed a three-year ban on obtaining business from companies under their jurisdiction. 
 In addition, Mr. Forrester's plan includes several provisions not mentioned in Senator Corzine's plan, including calls for tightening the state's nepotism law, expanding the statute of limitations to seven years for a handful of corruption crimes for which it now expires after five years, and a new rule that would ban all gift-taking by state officials. Lobbyists would not even be allowed to buy a lawmaker a cup of coffee. 

The Gasoline Tax
Corzine: A Hike Is Hard to Justify; Forrester: It Will Never Go Up
 New Jersey -- home to the most-traveled tangle of highways in the nation -- is facing what some experts have described as a ''transportation meltdown.'' By next year, the Transportation Trust Fund, the state's primary mechanism to repair bridges and roads, will essentially be out of cash for maintenance and construction. All of the fund's $805 million budget will have to be used to pay off loans that state lawmakers relied on for transportation projects in the 1990's. 
 Two years ago, a commission appointed by Governor McGreevey declared that the best way to solve the problem would be to double the gasoline tax, which is currently 14.5 cents per gallon, one of the lowest rates in the nation. Other outside experts have also supported an increase.
 But not the candidates. During the summer, Senator Corzine said that an increase in the gas tax should be ''one of the last things we look at.'' Then in September, after Hurricane Katrina battered the Gulf Coast and played havoc with the petroleum infrastructure, and gas prices rose to more than $3 a gallon, he said, ''it would be hard to justify at this point.'' Instead, he suggested selling or leasing the state's toll roads, or simply selling the land surrounding the rest stops. 
 Mr. Forrester has gone even further, vowing never to raise the gas tax if he is elected. He said he would revive the transportation fund with money already in the state's $28 billion budget.

Homeland Security
First a Cabinet-Level Czar, Then Zeroing In on Targets
 Mr. Codey had to intervene last month in a turf battle over homeland security between the attorney general's office, the state police and the office of counter-terrorism. The public rebuke came less than two years after the Newark headquarters of Prudential Securities was found to be a terrorist target -- and in response, Mr. Forrester and Senator Corzine both offered plans for a security overhaul. 
 At the heart of each proposal: a cabinet-level czar who would coordinate and oversee the warring agencies. Mr. Forrester's plan would create an office of homeland security within the attorney general's office, which would have the lead role in overseeing cases and investigations. Senator Corzine's proposed director of homeland security would report to the governor every day. A commission, modeled after the 9/11 Commission, would study the structure of homeland security jurisdiction and make recommendations for how the chain of command should be organized and how collaboration should be coordinated. 
 Each candidate has also offered a raft of other ideas for improving security. Among Mr. Corzine's more specific proposals are new rules requiring the state's chemical companies to follow mandatory safety protocols for workers, first responders and neighbors; and a ''Serve New Jersey'' program of incentives that would forgive up to $1,000 in loans or provide up to $1,000 in tax credits to college graduates who enter, for instance, law enforcement. 
 Mr. Forrester's plan would include a study of all potential terrorist targets, including the Oyster Creek nuclear power plant in Forked River, small airports and chemical complexes. The sites identified as high-risk would be subject to more extensive security plans. 
 Citing the recent use of videotape in London to apprehend terrorism suspects, Mr. Forrester said he also wanted to put security cameras in bus and train stations throughout the state. ''Cameras would be in public areas,'' his plan states, ''and would allow police to immediately identify suspicious behavior.''

Development
Critical of Fast-Track, But No Details for Change
 A measure signed by Mr. McGreevey, but suspended in July by Mr. Codey, would expedite the environmental permit process in areas that the state had deemed suitable for development. Supporters have said that the law, known as fast-track, would revitalize urban areas, while critics have called it the worst piece of environmental legislation in state history. 
 Mr. Forrester and Senator Corzine have generally sided with critics of the law and have called for its repeal. But neither candidate has given specifics on what would replace it, instead calling for more study while making recommendations around the edges. 
 Mr. Forrester, for example, has said that the time period for development approval -- 45 days, according to the law -- may need to be changed. Senator Corzine has said that developers in urban areas should have expedited development while more rural projects should be subject to additional scrutiny and review. 
 Senator Corzine's position is also complicated by the fact that one of the law's architects, Susan Bass Levin, a former commissioner of the State Department of Community Affairs, is one of his leading campaign advisors. Senator Corzine's campaign maintains that this would have no effect on his determination to craft a new and improved law governing development. 

Education
'Turnaround Specialists' And Curriculum Changes
 When the New Jersey Schools Construction Corporation, the three-year-old state agency charged with building new schools in poor neighborhoods, abruptly announced this year that it could pay for only half its proposed projects, residents of Newark, Irvington, Gloucester City, Passaic and several other municipalities ended up with empty lots, not schools. 
 Even worse, the mess might have been avoided: a handful of investigations later found that the agency wasted millions of dollars on exorbitant bonuses, excessive fees and costly design errors. 
 Both candidates have outlined strategies to put school construction back on track, and improve education as a whole. There are some obvious similarities. Mr. Forrester and Senator Corzine, for example, support a statewide bond referendum to pay for the completion of the 200 projects that the agency cancelled as a result of the shortfall. 
 Their plans for overhauling the agency's management, as laid out on their campaign Web sites and in speeches, are slightly different. 
 Mr. Forrester's proposal is more specific, stating that if elected, he would abolish the Schools Construction Corporation ''and assign the unfinished task of school construction to the Economic Development Authority with an advisory board of parents and educators that monitors and guides its work.''
 Senator Corzine's plan says that he would simply ''put a management and governance structure in place to ensure every dollar to construct our schools is spent responsibly and directed to our most urgent priorities.'' He does not explain what that structure may look like. 
 The two candidates have also proposed various ways to improve struggling schools. Mr. Forrester, following a program started by Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia, has said that he will try to help urban schools by recruiting and training principals to be ''turnaround specialists.'' Those who implement successful plans, he said, will be rewarded financially.
 Senator Corzine has focused more on curriculum changes. In a detailed speech on education in September at The College of New Jersey in Ewing, he said he would bolster early childhood education by dedicating nearly $24.5 million a year for full-day kindergarten, pre-kindergarten and after-school programs in districts where these programs are not already widely available. 
 ''My goal is that full-day kindergarten will be available to every child in the state by 2009,'' he said.
 Senator Corzine also said that he wanted schools to offer ''pre-engineering'' math classes in addition to more classes in Chinese, Arabic and other languages that will be important for students seeking jobs in an international economy. Mr. Forrester, in turn, has called for more mentoring programs and a closer relationship between high schools and community colleges.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Mel Evans/Associated Press)(pg. 1)
(Photographs by Mel Evans/Associated Press)
(Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)
(Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)
(Photo by Mike Derer/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SCANDALS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); CORRUPTION (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (53%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



133 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Signing Up Saddam's Soldiers

 BODY:
It is late in the day, but Iraq's ruling coalition of Shiite and Kurdish parties, and their American patrons, are finally showing some realism. The latest sign was last week's plea to mostly Sunni Arab junior officers of Saddam Hussein's disbanded military to enlist in Iraq's new national army. It was a historically stunning move, but one the Baghdad government had to make if there is to be any hope of making the Iraqi Army strong enough to break its dependency on the American forces. 
 It could not have been easy for the Shiite and Kurdish politicians, whose communities suffered terribly at the hands of Mr. Hussein and the army, which carried out many of his cruel and murderous policies. But the rash 2003 decision by the American occupation administrator, Paul Bremer, to disband the entire Iraqi Army was one of the worst of Washington's many postinvasion blunders. It made creating a new national military much harder, and broke the American promise that soldiers who did not fight the invading forces would be taken care of. It supplied vast cadres of armed, aggrieved and unemployed ex-soldiers to the developing Sunni-based insurgency, and undermined the legitimacy of the emerging Iraqi authorities by leaving them completely dependent on large numbers of American troops.
With the country so divided and the insurgency so powerful and entrenched, it will be extremely hard to make sure that former officers who have gone over to the insurgents do not infiltrate the new army. But it still makes good sense to try to undo as much of Mr. Bremer's disastrous decision as possible, as one element in a broader effort to reintegrate the deeply estranged Sunni Arab community into the nation's military, political and professional life. 
 Another costly legacy of the occupation was spelled out last week by the United States special inspector general for Iraq reconstruction. In a report to Congress, he showed how poor project coordination and monitoring, contracting abuses and astronomical security costs had allowed a substantial part of the $30 billion spent on American-financed reconstruction programs to dribble away without producing visible improvements in Iraqi life. These failures are inexcusable, but the truth is, no broad-gauge reconstruction can happen without significant gains in security, accompanied by progress on social and political issues.
 Re-enlisting former midlevel and lower-level Sunni army officers is a good place to start. But national reconciliation only stands a chance if it offers full professional and economic opportunities, including government service, to the skilled and educated Sunni doctors, lawyers and teachers, whose bitterness and economic hardship help fuel the insurgency. They should not be subjected to discrimination for having risen through the lower ranks of the former Baath Party, which used to be required for professional survival and advancement.
 We can only hope that the encouraging shift that produced last week's plea to ex-soldiers runs deep enough and lasts long enough to divert Iraq from imminent civil war toward constructive, democratic nation-building. With sufficient wisdom and a lot of good luck, it is not necessarily too late for Iraqis to salvage something positive from their long ordeal of dictatorship, war, invasion and occupation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (85%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); LAWYERS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



134 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Hemisphere Meeting Ends Without Trade Consensus 

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER and ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: BRAS?LIA, Nov. 5 

 BODY:
A two-day summit meeting of leaders of 34 Western Hemisphere nations in Argentina, attended by President Bush, broke up Saturday without a clear agreement on when and how to resume stalled talks aimed at achieving a hemispherewide free trade agreement. 
 Mr. Bush had hoped to persuade his counterparts from Latin America and the Caribbean to deliver a resounding endorsement of the plan, the Free Trade Area of the Americas. But suspicions of American intentions prevailed in the end, and by late Saturday no final communiqu? had been issued. 
The White House, smarting from the failure of the talks, sought to play down the importance of an agreement.
 ''There's nothing in stone that says every time leaders get together you have to have a summit communiqu?,'' Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, told reporters aboard Air Force One en route from Mar del Plata, Argentina, to Bras?lia. Earlier, he said people should not overemphasize the whole issue of the declaration. 
 The deadlock forced the cancellation of a final lunch for the leaders, as they sought to hammer out their differences. When the group took a 15-minute break, with the talks already three hours past their scheduled end, Mr. Bush left for his flight to Bras?lia. 
 White House officials said he had left to keep to his original timetable, which called for him to meet there on Sunday with the Brazilian president, Luiz In?cio Lula da Silva.
 Other leaders, including Mr. da Silva, began departing as well, eventually leaving the talks in the hands of lower-level officials. ''Reaching a consensus in a body of this size is sometimes a difficult task,'' a senior administration official said after the president had departed. ''We'd like to see the continuation of the free trade talks, and 29 countries have indicated their support for moving ahead.'' 
 American presidents of each party have long pushed for a hemispheric free trade zone. Ronald Reagan talked of a single market extending from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego; Bill Clinton formally broached the idea at the First Summit of the Americas in Miami in 1994.
 A Free Trade Area of the Americas would be larger than the European Union, though without its free flow of labor and political integration. Benefits for the United States as the dominant economic power in the hemisphere are obvious: with no more tariffs and other barriers that inhibit entry of American goods and services, American exports to the region would boom.
 But momentum has stalled, partly because the United States and Latin America are awaiting the outcome of trade talks at the Doha Round of the World Trade Organization, which will establish certain global rules any regional accord must respect. So the Bush administration has turned to smaller bilateral and regional agreements, like the Central American Free Trade Area, but came here hoping to get a commitment to resuming negotiations early next year.
 ''The reason why trade is so vital is because, particularly when addressing poverty, grants and loans pale in comparison to the amount of good that can be done as commerce develops at all levels of government, at all levels of society,'' Mr. Bush told a group of reporters from Latin American publications this week.
 But Latin America has never spoken with one voice on free trade. Many layers of doubt and dissent are on display here, and the situation may have been worsened by Washington's insistence on an agreement.
 On the left are those, led by Venezuela's fiery, populist president, Hugo Ch?vez, who oppose free trade in any form. Mr. Ch?vez calls the Free Trade Area of the Americas ''an annexationist plan'' that would stifle or destroy local industry, roll back social safety nets and labor protections and permanently extend American political domination of the region to the economic realm.
 ''We have to bury F.T.A.A.'' because it is the latest manifestation of ''an old project of the imperial eagle that from the beginning has wanted to sink its claws'' into Latin America, Mr. Ch?vez said Friday at a rally here of 25,000 people, who chanted anti-Bush and anti-Free Trade Area of the Americas slogans. 
 In contrast, Brazil and Argentina, the leaders of the Mercosur bloc, the third-largest trading group in the world, do not oppose the concept of free trade, only Washington's version. The Mercosur group, which includes Paraguay and Uruguay, was founded in 1991 to eliminate trade barriers among its members, but also aims to achieve political integration. It covers an area with a population of nearly 250 million and produces more than $1 trillion annually in goods and services. 
 As large exporters of foodstuffs, Mercosur wants the Bush administration to end billions in subsidies to American agriculture, in return for Latin American concessions on intellectual property rights, financial regulation and market access.
 ''We are here neither to bury F.T.A.A. nor to resuscitate it,'' but to see ''what are the advantages,'' Brazil's foreign minister, Celso Amorim, said. ''We have no prejudice against trade integration, but we don't want to put something on paper just because it looks nice.''
 Some other countries with dynamic economies that have free trade pacts with the United States, like Mexico and Chile, have been trying to ease their neighbors' worries, by emphasizing the benefits of liberalized trade for exports, investment and employment. On Friday, President Vicente Fox of Mexico criticized Argentina's president, N?stor Kirchner, saying he ''must do more to save this conference,'' and suggesting creation of a regional trade accord with 29 members instead of 34, leaving out Mercosur and Venezuela.
 ''Anyone who blocks an accord like this is certainly looking out for their own interests and not the interests of others,'' Mr. Fox said. 
 But President Ricardo Lagos of Chile said the United States needed to be more flexible. ''It is very difficult to promote free trade accords when you have this kind of problem, in which the asymmetry favors those who have more and not those who have less,'' he said.
 Brazil maintains that no hemispheric trade agreement can be meaningful without the participation of its fellow Mercosur partners.
 Argentina's stand is complicated by the resentment and mistrust from the economic collapse four years ago. Argentina contends that it was abandoned by the United States in its time of crisis, and that has colored Mr. Kirchner's dealings with the Bush administration.


GRAPHIC: Photos: An Argentine bank employee cleaned up broken glass yesterday after rioters attacked several businesses to protest President Bush's visit. (Photo by Enrique Marcarian/Reuters)
 President Bush in Argentina yesterday. He later left for Brazil. (Photo by Miguel Rojo/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (78%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); ARGENTINA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); BRAZIL (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (89%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



135 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: White House Tries to Keep Distance From Leak Case

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 5 

 BODY:
In the hours before the Justice Department informed the White House in late September 2003 that it would investigate the leak of a covert C.I.A. officer's identity, Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, gave reporters what turned out to be a rare glimpse into President Bush's knowledge of the case.
 Mr. Bush, he said, ''knows'' that Karl Rove, his senior adviser, had not been the source of the leak. Pressed on how Mr. Bush was certain, Mr. McClellan said he was ''not going to get into conversations that the president has with advisers,'' but made no effort to erase the impression that Mr. Rove had assured Mr. Bush that he had not been involved.
Since then, administration officials and Mr. Bush himself have carefully avoided disclosing anything about any involvement the president may have had in the events surrounding the disclosure of the officer's identity or anything about what his aides may have told them about their roles. Citing the continuing investigation and now the pending trial of I. Lewis Libby Jr., Vice President Dick Cheney's former chief of staff, they have declined to comment on almost any aspect of the case. 
 The issue now for the White House is how long it can go on deflecting the inquiries and trying to keep the focus away from Mr. Bush. 
 While there has been no suggestion that Mr. Bush did anything wrong, the portrait of the White House that was painted by the special counsel in the indictment of Mr. Libby was one in which a variety of senior officials, including Mr. Cheney, played some role in events that preceded the disclosure of the officer's identity.
 Mr. Bush was not mentioned in the indictment. But the fact that so many of his aides seem to have been involved in dealing with the issue that eventually led to the leak -- how to rebut or discredit Joseph C. Wilson IV, a former diplomat who had challenged the administration's handling of prewar intelligence -- leaves open the question of what the president knew. 
 The White House has also kept a tight lid on information about what Mr. Bush learned afterward about any involvement that Mr. Cheney, Mr. Libby, Mr. Rove and others may have had in the leak. 
 People involved in the case have confirmed that Mr. Rove told Mr. Bush and other White House colleagues in September 2003 that he had no involvement, but it is not known what, if anything, Mr. Rove has told Mr. Bush since testifying to the grand jury last year and this year that he had conversations with two reporters that touched on the identity of the officer, Valerie Wilson. What, if anything, Mr. Cheney and Mr. Libby may have told Mr. Bush remains a mystery.
 From a political perspective, the investigation now seems to be taking a toll on Mr. Bush. A Washington Post/ABC News poll released on Thursday found that only 40 percent of Americans see him as honest and trustworthy, down from 53 percent in May 2004 and 62 percent soon after he took office in 2001; 58 percent said they did not see him as honest and trustworthy, up from 45 percent last year and 32 percent in 2001.
 At the same time, Democrats are demanding that he live up to his earlier pledges to hold his administration to the highest ethical standards, ''not only what is legal but what is right, not just what the lawyers allow but what the public deserves,'' as Mr. Bush put it at the end of the 2000 presidential campaign. And Democrats are drawing renewed attention to an apparent change in Mr. Bush's standard for what would constitute a firing offense, to anyone who ''committed a crime,'' the threshold he used when he addressed the issue in July, from anyone who was ''involved in'' a leak of classified information, a definition Mr. McClellan used in 2003.
 More broadly, Democrats and their allies are trying to place the leak case at the heart of their argument that the administration has shown itself to be incompetent, dishonest and out of touch with middle-class Americans. ''Katrina. Iraq. Indictment. George Bush's presidency is in trouble, and he'll do anything to save it,'' said a new television commercial from People for the American Way, a liberal group opposing the nomination of Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. to the Supreme Court.
 ''We're at the very beginning stages of this, not at the end,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois, referring to the political impact of the investigation.
 ''The president, politically at least, has an obligation to say something to the American people to get some clarity about what did they know and what did they say,'' he said. 
 But the Bush White House has always been good at what one close Republican ally refers to admiringly as ''making their own reality,'' meaning that the president and his top aides stick doggedly to their political script and agenda, refusing to be knocked off course. What Democrats consider stubbornness and detachment, Mr. Bush's admirers consider determination, and in this case that trait suggests the White House will be in no rush to acknowledge mistakes or to offer detailed explanations that might swamp the president's second-term plans.
 ''A White House that is aggressively on message is an unstoppable political tool,'' said Rich Galen, a Republican consultant. ''Just as the Clinton White House got itself back together in '95 and after impeachment, this White House will get itself together, too.''
 Whatever political problems the Libby indictment creates, he said, ''It's a long way from the Veep's office to the Oval. No one has ever hinted that President Bush was involved in this or was even aware of it. I really don't think the issue will have legs beyond the next couple of weeks.''
 The administration's supporters point out that Mr. Bush has repeatedly emphasized that the White House will cooperate fully with the special counsel, Patrick J. Fitzgerald. The administration raised no issues of executive privilege when it came to documents sought by investigators. Mr. Fitzgerald had given no indication that he was denied any information on the ground of national security. No officials are known to have taken the Fifth Amendment to avoid incriminating themselves.
 Therefore, allies of the White House said, it would be hard to make a case, legally or politically, that there was any organized effort to cover up what happened, despite Mr. Libby's indictment on charges of trying to do just that. And assuming that Mr. Fitzgerald does not indict Mr. Rove in the next few weeks, Mr. Bush has a natural firebreak available to him.
 He will be away from Washington for much of the rest of the month. After returning from a trip to South America, Mr. Bush will leave for a week in Asia and then will spend Thanksgiving at his ranch in Texas. 
 When he returns, allies of the White House said, he hopes to regain traction by moving smoothly ahead with Judge Alito's nomination, shifting the focus to the policies he intends to emphasize next year, including reduced government spending and an overhaul of the immigration and border control systems, and making a more effective case for why victory in Iraq is vital.
 ''I'm not sure he needs to say anything about the case until the investigation is over,'' Charlie Black, a Republican strategist, said, ''and then I'm not sure they need to do anything differently.'' 
 Mr. Black said the political repercussions from the case were ''a fairly temporary phenomenon'' that would fade in the next few weeks, giving way to the problems that had been presenting such a tremendous challenge to Mr. Bush before the leak case flared up this fall.
 ''The president's job approval long term is driven by Iraq and the economy much more than this leak stuff,'' he said. ''They know that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INDICTMENTS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TESTIMONY (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: KARL ROVE (79%); DICK CHENEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



136 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; THE 2005 ELECTION: MAYOR'S RACE; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 2281 words

HEADLINE: For the City's Democrats, a Grim Future Could Last Long Beyond Tuesday

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY

 BODY:
As Democrats pursue an uphill battle to recapture City Hall on Tuesday, this year's mayoral campaign has already exposed the long-term fracturing of Democratic power in the city, from splinters in the black and Hispanic vote to defections in liberal bastions like the West Side.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's popularity and his $66 million in campaign spending are two pressure points as the campaign winds into its final phase this weekend. Yet it is the permanent structural changes in New York politics -- such as term limits, campaign finance reforms and evolving demographics -- that are really shaking the once-dominant party and seem bound to hamper it for years to come, leading Democrats and political consultants say.
The Democrats have lost the last three mayoral elections, and if they lose Tuesday's it will be their longest stretch out of power since the consolidation of New York City in 1898. And the recent Republican successes have only empowered the mayor, whether in rooting out patronage in government or in pushing controversial priorities like the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn. As for the impact on voters, Democratic leaders say a lack of unity weakens party efforts to build more affordable housing, rein in apartment rents, allow gay marriage and battle for more school aid from Albany. 
 Democrats complain that fund-raising caps and term limits have deprived the Democratic challenger, Fernando Ferrer, of a political machine to confront the vast resources of the Bloomberg campaign. And he has not been able to spread his message in even traditional hotbeds of party loyalty -- a sign, some Democrats say, of wealthy candidates' triumphing over party-bred politicians who once defined power in New York.
 ''This is now a major problem for us, that the guy from the block who works hard for the party doesn't stand much chance against the guy who has $75 million,'' said Representative Charles B. Rangel, a party elder from Harlem who supports Mr. Ferrer. ''The old Democratic Party loyalty has faded; it's gone. And term limits are capping the futures of the best workers and minds in city politics.''
 While friends have described Mr. Ferrer as frustrated by the campaign, he projected a tireless optimism yesterday as he and Mr. Bloomberg stormed the city with a single goal: urging huge numbers of supporters to vote on Tuesday.
 Mr. Ferrer, who is about 30 points behind in most polls, visited all five boroughs yesterday to make a personal appeal to Democrats to return to the fold and ''get serious'' about improving low-cost housing, public schools and jobs.
 ''I'm not going to ask you to vote for me because I'm a Democrat, I'm going to ask you to vote for me because you're a Democrat,'' Mr. Ferrer said at a small rally in Harlem that was mostly attended by volunteers and staff members. He said he wanted Tuesday's vote to ''remind New York that Democratic values in City Hall are the things that made this city great.''
 For all the energy Mr. Ferrer showed yesterday, the weakening of the Democratic apparatus has been increasingly in plain sight. Mr. Ferrer has bragged this fall about unsurpassed party unity after the mayoral primary, yet many liberals, women, blacks and fervent Democrats appear poised to do their own thing: in this case, vote for Mr. Bloomberg in decisive numbers. The extent of Mr. Ferrer's lead among Hispanic voters -- he is of Puerto Rican descent -- is not clear, according to recent polls.
 ''A lot of people with Hispanic surnames aren't with Ferrer, and many Democratic notables have abandoned him or done little on his behalf,'' said Norman Adler, a longtime political consultant. ''One would think Freddy could win the West Side down to SoHo and TriBeCa and Stuy Town, but my guess is he'll lose all of it. What does that say about this as a Democratic city?''
 State Senator Liz Krueger, a Democrat who represents the East Side and who works on poverty issues, said that a split Hispanic vote on Tuesday, which she expects, would demonstrate that Hispanics are not a politically monolithic demographic, a base that Democrats can take for granted.
 ''Hispanics are pretty conservative,'' she said. ''Puerto Ricans, who have been here for generations and are citizens, often have different concerns than Dominicans or Colombians or Ecuadoreans.''
 Like other voters, many Hispanic and black voters also do not see Mr. Bloomberg as a Republican lackey to President Bush, no matter what Mr. Ferrer contends, political analysts say. Mr. Bloomberg has effectively driven ideological wedges among Democrats: They split sharply over embracing him as a socially liberal mayor who reduces crime, maintains services without raising taxes too much, and keeps corruption and special interests out of City Hall.
 A few other Republicans are following Mr. Bloomberg's playbook in their races for City Council this fall, giving more voters a choice in leadership and perhaps nicking the huge Democratic majority on the Council. 
 ''You could say the mayor is doing well because of his campaign spending, but voters care ultimately about priorities, and the fact is that his record is pretty liberal,'' said Jerry Skurnik, a political consultant who analyzes voter trends.
 But for some veterans of New York politics, the story of this campaign has been told, and retold and retold, by the seemingly unlimited campaign commercials paid for from Mr. Bloomberg's multibillion-dollar personal fortune. Mr. Ferrer has produced some edgy ads in the final week, but he is taking city matching funds that put limits on donations and is being outspent by eight to one.
 Mark Green, the Democratic candidate in 2001, argued that a Bloomberg landslide would show that blood is not always thicker than water. Ethnic pride in Mr. Ferrer and partisan kinship among Democrats ''seem to be submerged in a tidal wave of spending by Mayor Bloomberg,'' he said. 
 ''Some people are understandably swayed by ethnic feelings, but every African-American and Latino with a TV and radio has heard Bloomberg argue 100 times why he's good for them, even if he's white,'' Mr. Green said. ''They've heard maybe three times why Ferrer is good for them, even if he's a person of color.''
 He added, ''A lot of Democrats like myself were trained to think about voting blocs, but now we see there's no denying that money can trump a great deal.''
 The straying of black and Hispanic voters from the Democratic camp masks bigger challenges to party dominance in the city. The two main obstacles are term limits, which hamper the party's efforts to build an institutional leadership through incumbency, and campaign finance reform, which, with a generous system of matching funds, has encouraged novice politicians to confront the party's favored candidates.
 New Yorkers adopted term limits in 1993, but only in recent years has the law begun removing longtime Democratic fixtures of city government, forcing the Council speaker, for instance, out after two terms. As a result, there are fewer party power bases with personnel and money for Mr. Ferrer to tap, and fewer powerful incumbents who can rope in Bloomberg Democrats. Mr. Ferrer's best-organized backer, 1199/S.E.I.U., a union of health care workers, is contributing hundreds of volunteers and thousands of glossy pamphlets to his effort, but some Democrats question whether the aid will make a significant difference.
 ''Our power structures have really changed, and the mayor has his own power structure that is hard to beat: money,'' said H. Carl McCall, the Democratic nominee for governor in 2002.
 By remaining within the city's campaign finance system, candidates like Mr. Ferrer must accept caps on donations at $4,950 in return for the city's providing a six-to-one match of donations of $250 or less. Some Democrats championed this system, but the Ferrer camp and the state party are now chafing under its limits as they face a self-financed incumbent.
 ''A lot of Democrats want the Campaign Finance Board to rethink the rules once this election ends, because the playing field is unfair for average politicians facing millionaires and billionaires,'' said Bill Lynch, a Democratic strategist advising the Ferrer campaign.
 ''At the very least, the board should hold more debates for the mayoral candidates,'' he added. 
 Looking past Tuesday, some political analysts and elected Democrats say a Bloomberg landslide could embolden the mayor to perhaps try to wipe out partisan city elections, as he did earlier in his term, or to search for a Republican heir to run in 2009. By contrast, if Mr. Ferrer pulls out a victory, party strategists plan to take a close look at the ethnic and socioeconomic cross-sections that come together behind him, because the usual assumptions in the polls will have been proved wrong.
 Virtually no leading Democrat expects a Ferrer victory at this point, however, since Mr. Bloomberg appears to be ahead in traditionally Democratic enclaves.
 ''So many of the building blocks of the party are disappearing: ethnic voting blocs, dependably Democratic neighborhoods, the loyalty of unions,'' said John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York Graduate Center. ''If a Latino Democratic nominee and a white Republican are running neck and neck with Latino voters, what does that say about this city?''


Patrick Gaspard
An informal adviser hired to oversee the field operation and advise on strategy, he is widely considered one of the best operatives at getting out the vote.

Leo Hindery
A Successful businessman who serves as the campaign's finance chairman, he has helped refine key economic and fiscal themes, in addition to strengthening political alliances.

Luis Miranda
A veteran of the Koch administration and longtime Ferrer confidant, he has overseen the Spanish-language advertising campaign, in addition to shaping core policy proposals.

Jef Pollock
A pollster who is an expert in interpreting demographic information, he has helped refine the campaign's message and political strategy and direct it at certain groups.

Roberto Ramirez
A former Bronx Democratic Party chairman and the campaign's chief political strategist, he has played a key role in Mr. Ferrer's advancement and has orchestrated many of the campaign's major political alliances.

MAJOR ENDORSEMENTS

 News Media: El Diario/La Prensa; The Amsterdam News; The New York Press.

Labor and Political Organizations: 1199/Service Employees International Union; Working Families Party; Public Employees Federation; Empire Pride Agenda; 100 Blacks in Law Enforcement Who Care.

Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg

POLICY PROPOSALS
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has focused mostly on his record in office, but has also offered new or expanded proposals for more-affordable housing, education, economic development and counterterrorism strategy.

Education
Mr. Bloomberg plans to seek state legislative approval to double the number of charter schools in the city to 100 by 2009, and to give the mayor independent authority to create more such schools in the future. He would also add more alternative high schools to help students in danger of dropping out, and seek state money to expand preschool care for small children.

Public Safety
The mayor proposes making regional transportation authorities answerable to the New York Police Department the event of a terrorist attack on the transit system within the city, a move that would require the consent of the governors of New York and New Jersey. He would also establish gun courts in all five boroughs.

Housing
The city would increase the number of housing units reserved for low- and middle-income buyers to 165,000 over 10 years from the current goal 68,000 units over 5 years.

Economic Development
The city's marketing efforts aimed at attracting tourists would be expanded, and the mayor says he will ''work with labor, hotel management and the real estate industry'' to preserve the city's grand old hotels. He aims to rezone 4.5 million square feet of commercial space near J.F.K. Airport in Queens, create a 311 information service center for small businesses and expand development of the Harlem River waterfront.

PRINCIPAL ADVISERS

Kevin Sheekey
The campaign manager, he is Mr. Bloomberg's longtime political adviser and now is the architect and overseer of Mr. Bloomberg's election-year plan and sprawling campaign organization.

Patricia Harris
A top deputy and top confidante of Mr. Bloomberg's, she has the final word on his campaign budget and in recent weeks has moved to the campaign full time to help Mr. Sheekey oversee the campaign organization.

William T. Cunningham
A veteran strategist who oversees Mr. Bloomberg's campaign war room and provides key strategic advice on his campaign message and how he conveys it through the news media.

Edward Skyler
The mayor's Communications director, he devises and oversees the mayor's communications strategy and makes sure it is properly coordinated between the campaign and City Hall.

Doug Schoen and Bill Knapp
Mr. Schoen heads the campaign's polling unit and constructs its huge database of voter information, and Mr. Knapp oversees the huge advertising campaign.

MAJOR ENDORSEMENTS

News Media: The New York Times; The Daily News; The New York Post; Newsday; Hoy; The New York Sun; The Staten Island Advance; The New York Observer; Crain's New York Business; The Chief Civil Service Weekly; The Jewish Press; Sing Tao.

Labor and Political Organizations: New York City Central Labor Council; District Council 37; Naral Pro-Choice New York; New York League of Conservation Voters; Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association; Service Employees International Union Local 32BJ.

(pg. 44)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fernando Ferrer, the Democratic nominee, has been outspent by eight to one.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has spent $66 million in his re-election campaign. (Photographs by Graham Morrison for The New York Times)(pg. 41)
 (pg. 44)Chart: ''How the Candidates Compare''Fernando FerrerPOLICY PROPOSALSFernando Ferrer has made a series of proposals that would raise about $1.5 billion a year through various tax increases, and use the money for schools and for housing for low- and middle-income New Yorkers.EducationMr. Ferrer would impose a tax on transfers of stock shares that would raise an estimated $1 billion, which he says would help obtain an additional $23 billion from Albany, money that a State Supreme Court judge concluded needs to be spent to improve city schools. He would use the money to reduce class sizes, increase teacher pay and expand after-school programs.Public SafetyMr. Ferrer's plan essentially involves pressuring the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to spend more money on subway security, and lobbying the federal government to restore funding through its Community Oriented Policing Services program to add 900 officers to New York's police force.HousingHis plan would require that one-third of new housing units in designated ''growth zones'' be reserved for low-and moderate-income resideents, and that the city spend $8.5 billion over 10 years for the ''development and preservation of 167,000 affordable housing units.''TaxesPeople owning homes valued at less than $800,000 would save $937 each year by having the first $100,000 of their homes' assessed value exempted from property taxes. They would no longer receive the $400 rebate enacted by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Owners of more-expensive homes would not be eligible for the exemption, but would continue to receive the rebate.PRINCIPAL ADVISERSJen BluesteinThe campaign's Communications director, she has helped shape the message and overall press strategy, in addition to polishing Mr. Ferrer's public presentation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); TERM LIMITS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); MARRIAGE (51%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



137 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Bleeding Hearts of the World, Unite!

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In a country dispirited by political mud wrestling, there was a spark of hope the other day: a conference in which liberals discussed international issues with conservative Christians -- and agreed!
 The conference, sponsored by Madeleine Albright on the left and Senator Sam Brownback on the right, underscored that we now have a tantalizing opportunity. If only left and right can hold their noses and work together, we can confront some of the scourges of our time -- sex trafficking, genocide, religious oppression, prison brutality -- on which there is surprising agreement about what needs to be done.
Democrats have mostly watched the arrival of evangelicals on the foreign policy scene the way the Romans regarded the approach of the Visigoths and Vandals, but that's a mistake. The growing engagement of conservative Christians on international issues is welcome because for the first time it has turned the American heartland into a constituency for foreign aid and humanitarian action. 
 A decade ago, the heartland was a force for isolation. That's why Tom DeLay said foreign aid meant ''putting Ghana over Grandma,'' and Jesse Helms referred to aid as ''money down a rat hole.''
 Now, in contrast, conservatives are leading the charge on some of these issues. Regular readers know that I'm no fan of this administration, but there's no arguing with facts. President Bush has almost tripled actual spending on overseas development assistance to $19 billion last year, compared with its trough under President Clinton of less than $7 billion in 1997, according to O.E.C.D. figures. (Mr. Bush hasn't given nearly as much as he's promised, but his broken promises still amount to far more than Mr. Clinton ever gave.)
 Pushed by conservative Christians, Mr. Bush is also doing more to fight both AIDS and sex trafficking than any of his predecessors did. Foreign governments are learning that the U.S. now takes the slavery of 13-year-old girls almost as seriously as the pirating of American movies, and that's a step forward.
 So that's the context in which Ms. Albright and Mr. Brownback (who call themselves ''the ultimate political odd couple'') held their conference, under the auspices of the Aspen Institute. There was a voyeuristic thrill of spying illicit love -- as when Mr. Brownback praised Hillary Clinton, who spoke on sex trafficking, for her ''outstanding job.''
 And cooperation can achieve more than just civility. Darfur is a perfect example of left-right cooperation that has saved thousands of lives, because the leaders in Congress against the genocide are Jon Corzine, one of the most liberal members, and Mr. Brownback, one of the most conservative.
 Of course, they have their work cut out for them: Congress just sent Darfur a ''drop dead'' message by cutting funds for African Union peacekeeping troops there. If Congressional leaders let that stand, they should just rename the bill the Genocide Enabling Act.
 What next? Ms. Albright and Mr. Brownback agreed on a tentative agenda by coming up with a list of ''the Top 5 worst places to wake up in the morning.''
 Those are Darfur, North Korea, Burma, Congo and northern Uganda. They're all neglected, brutal spots. Congo, for example, is the site of the most lethal conflict since World War II, with four million dead since 1998.
 Another area ripe for cooperation would be safe maternity abroad. For all the battles over abortion and condoms, both sides can agree that half a million women shouldn't be dying unnecessarily in childbirth each year around the world, when modest investments can save their lives.
 Domestically, the obvious issue is prisons, the nastiest places in America. A bipartisan coalition won a landmark law against prison rape in 2003, with evangelical leaders standing side by side with Ted Kennedy at the signing ceremony. The next step is the Second Chance Act, which aims to reduce recidivism by easing the adjustment from prisons into society. It stands a real chance of getting through this Congress.
 Obviously, there are differences. As I see it, conservatives have gravely undermined the effectiveness of their programs against AIDS with their squeamishness about condoms -- but there's still no doubt that the U.S. is doing far more about the disease now than it ever did under Mr. Clinton.
 Look, I think that Christian leaders on the right like Senator Brownback, Frank Wolf in the House and Chuck Colson are utterly wrong on many issues. I probably wouldn't vote for them for political office. But I admire them immensely for their humanitarian efforts, and I might vote for them for sainthood.
 Over the next year, Democrats and Republicans will devote millions of dollars to heap slime on each other. If they devote 1 percent as much energy to cooperating on a few of these issues, they'll make the world a much better place. Bleeding hearts of the world, unite! 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (89%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); SEX TRAFFICKING (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FILM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JON CORZINE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GHANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



138 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; HOLIDAY MOVIES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 4318 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times, From the Gulf To the Coop To the Opry

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR; Compiled with the assistance of Suzanne O'Connor.

 BODY:

All dates are subject to change.

November

Already opened

CHICKEN LITTLE The Walt Disney Company undertakes its first in-house computer animation, borrowing a bunch of Sundance types (Zach Braff, Steve Zahn, Joan Cusack, Amy Sedaris) to lend their voices to an updated version of the classic cautionary tale. The film will be shown in a 3-D version in, as they say, selected theaters. 


DALTRY CALHOUN Johnny Knoxville takes another step away from ''Jackass'' in this comedy about a grass seed mogul who must learn to make time in his hectic life for the teenage daughter he never knew he had. With Juliette Lewis and Elizabeth Banks; Katrina Holden Bronson directs.

The DYING GAUL The playwright Craig Lucas (''Prelude to a Kiss'') directs his first film, a dark Hollywood story about a m?nage ? trois involving a screenwriter, a studio executive and his wife. With Patricia Clarkson, Peter Sarsgaard and Campbell Scott.

JARHEAD The British director Sam Mendes continues his parade of Oscar-bait Americana (''Road to Perdition,'' ''American Beauty'') with an adaptation of Anthony Swofford's book about a third-generation marine serving in Operation Desert Storm. Jake Gyllenhaal plays Mr. Swofford's character; with Jamie Foxx, Peter Sarsgaard and Chris Cooper.

WAL-MART: THE HIGH COST OF LOW PRICE From Robert Greenwald, the guerrilla documentarist (''Uncovered: The War on Iraq''), a hard look at the practices of America's largest retailer.

Nov. 9

GET RICH OR DIE TRYIN' 50 Cent, born Curtis Jackson, stars as a street kid who passes through drug dealing to become a rap star. Directed by the elfin Irishman Jim Sheridan (''My Left Foot,'' ''In America''), with Joy Bryant and Viola Davis. A related article is on Page 8.

PULSE Benefiting from the J-Horror fad, Kiyoshi Kurosawa's subtle and haunting 2001 film, about people who are pulled into computers and vanish forever, is getting a stateside release. Also known under its Japanese title, ''Kairo.''

THE SWENKAS A documentary about a group of Zulu men in Johannesburg who compete in fashion shows wearing expensive designer suits. Jeppe Ronde directs.

Nov. 11

BEE SEASON The daughter of a professor (Richard Gere) and a scientist (Juliette Binoche), little Eliza Naumann (Flora Cross) lives in fear of her own mediocrity until she wins a spelling bee. Scott McGehee and David Siegel (''The Deep End'') directed from a script by Naomi Foner Gyllenhaal.

DERAILED The first official release of the Weinstein Company, Harvey and Bob's new production house, this sounds like a variation on ''Brief Encounter,'' with Clive Owen as a married Chicago businessman who misses his train one day and meets Jennifer Aniston instead. New to this version: a crazed gunman (Vincent Cassel) who holds the adulterous couple captive in their hotel room. Mikael Hafstrom directs.

ELLIE PARKER The hard life of an aspiring Hollywood actress (Naomi Watts), as written and directed by the once and future actor Scott Coffey. With Rebecca Rigg and Mr. Coffey.

GOOD MORNING, NIGHT The 1978 kidnapping and killing of the Italian prime minister Aldo Moro at the hands of the Red Brigade, depicted in an intimate drama by one of Italy's master filmmakers, Marco Bellocchio.

PRIDE & PREJUDICE Not to be confused with last year's ''Bride and Prejudice'' (not that anyone would), this is a straight adaptation of the beloved Jane Austen novel with Keira Knightley, cleaning up her language after ''Domino,'' starring as Elizabeth and Matthew MacFadyen as Mr. Darcy. It's a first feature for the British television director Joe Wright. A related article is on Page 16.

SARAH SILVERMAN: JESUS IS MAGIC Ms. Silverman flings her barbs from the movie screen, directed by Liam Lynch.

ZATHURA A sort-of sequel to the 1995 children's hit ''Jumanji,'' about a pair of antagonistic brothers who discover a strange old board game in the basement and find the events in the game coming true. Jon Favreau (''Elf'') directs a cast including Tim Robbins and Josh Hutcherson.

Nov. 16

BREAKFAST ON PLUTO Neil Jordan returns to the themes of his ''Crying Game'' with the story of a misunderstood Irish youth (Cillian Murphy) who finds a career as a transvestite performer in London. With Liam Neeson and Stephen Rea.

GILLES' WIFE The talented French actress Emmanuelle Devos (''Kings and Queen'') plays the title character in a period drama about a wife and mother who suspects her husband (Clovis Cornillac) may be having an affair. Fr?d?ric Fonteyne (''A Pornographic Affair'') directs.

THE SYRIAN BRIDE A young woman (Hiam Abbass) from a Druze village in the Golan Heights crosses into Syria to marry, causing cultural and political upheaval. Eran Riklis directs.

Nov. 18

BLACKMAIL BOY Grim, violent family drama from Greece, originally titled ''Oxygono'' and directed by Thanasis Papathanasiou.

HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE Episode 4 of the Harry Potter series finds the young wizard representing Hogwarts in an intramural sorcery championship. After the imaginative choice of the Mexican director Alfonso Cuar?n to direct the last installment, the producers have made a safe pick, the British director Mike Newell (''Four Weddings and a Funeral''), for this one. The contractually obligated gang is all here: Daniel Radcliffe, Rupert Grint, Emma Watson, Robbie Coltrane, etc. A related article is on Page 10.

WALK THE LINE The life and hard times of the late country singer Johnny Cash, played here by Joaquin Phoenix. Reese Witherspoon is Cash's second wife, June Carter; with Robert Patrick and Shelby Lynne. James Mangold directs; he developed the project with Cash's cooperation.

Nov. 23

THE ICE HARVEST A pair of minor mobsters (John Cusack and Billy Bob Thornton) steal some money from their boss (Randy Quaid), but must then face the prospect of escaping an ice-bound Kansas city with their loot and Mr. Cusack's girlfriend (Connie Nielsen). Harold Ramis (''Groundhog Day'') directed from a script by Richard Russo and Robert Benton, based on a novel by Scott Phillips.

IN THE MIX The crooner Usher Raymond stars as a bodyguard who falls for the daughter of his employer, an old-fashioned mobster (Chazz Palminteri). Ron Underwood directs, bouncing back from the notorious ''Adventures of Pluto Nash.''

JUST FRIENDS A womanizing recording executive (Ryan Reynolds) considers reform when he runs into the woman he had a desperate, unrequited crush on in high school. With Amy Smart; directed by Roger Kumble.

THE LIBERTINE Johnny Depp, still looking for his Oscar, plays the dashing and decadent 2nd Earl of Rochester, a Restoration rogue who frolics with King Charles II (John Malkovich) and a young actress (Samantha Morton), among many others. Laurence Dunmore directs, from the play by Stephen Jeffreys.A related article is on Page 12.

RENT East Village youths sing their way through housing and health crises, in an adaptation of the musical directed by Chris Columbus (''Mrs. Doubtfire'') and starring Rosario Dawson, Taye Diggs and Idina Menzel. A related article is on Page 3.

SYRIANA Stephen Gaghan, who won an Oscar for his screenplay adaptation of ''Traffic,'' returns with another tale of international political intrigue, set in the Middle East, where several stories unfold and intertwine: a veteran C.I.A. officer (George Clooney) discovers the real nature of his work; an oil broker and his wife (Matt Damon and Amanda Peet) experience a tragedy; a corporate lawyer (Jeffrey Wright) agonizes over the moral compromises he must make in arranging a merger of two oil companies; a Pakistani teenager (Mazhar Munir) drifts toward Muslim fundamentalism. With Chris Cooper and Tim Blake Nelson.

39 POUNDS OF LOVE Dani Menkin's documentary tells of an Israeli man who has struggled with muscular dystrophy for three decades, so far successfully.

YOURS, MINE AND OURS The 1968 family comedy that starred Lucille Ball and Henry Fonda as a widow and widower who marry to create a brood of 20 children, here remade with Rene Russo and Dennis Quaid (and, according to the poster, a mere 18 children). Raja Gosnell of the ''Scooby-Doo'' films directs.

Nov. 25

DOWN TO THE BONE Vera Farmiga stars as a working-class mother of two with a secret addiction to cocaine; when she finally checks herself into rehab, she falls in love with a fellow recovering addict (Hugh Dillon). The writer and director, Debra Granik, won the Directors' Award at the 2004 Sundance Film Festival.

MRS. PALFREY AT THE CLAREMONT The American indie stalwart Dan Ireland (''The Whole Wide World'') went to England to shoot this adaptation of the novel by Elizabeth Taylor. Joan Plowright plays the title character, a lonely old woman who befriends a young writer (Rupert Friend). A related article is on Page 12.

Nov. 30

BOYS OF BARAKA A documentary, directed by Heidi Ewing and Rachel Grady, about a Baltimore high school teacher, Mavis Jackson, and her program that sends 20 boys each year to live in the bush country of Kenya.

December

Dec. 2

AEON FLUX The scantily clad professional assassin of the MTV animated series becomes firmly toned flesh in the form of Charlize Theron. Frances McDormand plays her employer, known only as the Handler. Karyn Kusama directed, in what is a big step up in budget terms from her independent debut feature, ''Girlfight.''

BE HERE TO LOVE ME A tribute to and documentary about the singer-songwriter Townes Van Zandt, featuring appearances by Emmylou Harris, Kris Kristofferson and Willie Nelson. Margaret Brown directs.

FAR SIDE OF THE MOON Robert Lepage, Canada's leading theater director, takes another shot at filmmaking with a tale of two brothers (both played by Mr. Lepage) who continue to work out their childhood antagonism as adults.

FIRST DESCENT Kevin Harrison and Kemp Curley directed this blend of documentary and recreated incidents to tell the dramatic story of the rise of snowboarding. The snowboard stars Shaun White and Hannah Teter are featured.

A GOOD WOMAN At least the ninth version of Oscar Wilde's society drama ''Lady Windermere's Fan''; hope springs eternal, but even with Helen Hunt as the gallant Woman With a Past, Mrs. Erlynne, the director Mike Barker is going to have a hard time beating the classic Ernst Lubitsch version of 1925. With Scarlett Johansson and the hard-working Tom Wilkinson.

GOOSE! After the death of his mother, a little boy befriends a goose, convinced that the animal can talk. All is well until the school principal (Chevy Chase, whom some of you may remember as the Jon Stewart of 1975) decides to plump up the bird for Christmas dinner. It's a comedy. With James Purefoy, Tom Arnold and Joan Plowright; Nicholas Kendall directs.

THE KID & I Tom Arnold wrote and plays a role in this inspirational tale about a boy with cerebral palsy who dreams of starring in a big-budget action movie. With Eric Gores, Richard Edson, Joe Mantegna, Henry Winkler and Linda Hamilton; Penelope Spheeris (''The Decline of Western Civilization,'' Parts 1 through 3) is the director.

LITTLE MAN The filmmaker Nicole Conn (whose ''Claire of the Moon'' was a pioneering lesbian feature) documents the stress, strain and joy that result when she and her partner, Gwen Baba, adopt a seriously ill premature baby.

7 DAYS A young rock promoter (Eduardo Arroyuelo) turns to gambling to raise the money he needs to bring U2 to Mexico. Fernando Kalife directed.

TRANSAMERICA Felicity Huffman as Bree, a pre-op transsexual forced to take care of the son she never knew she had (Kevin Zegers) from a relationship she barely remembers from her life as a man. Is Oscar listening? Written and directed by Duncan Tucker.

Dec. 9

BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN A rodeo rider and a ranch hand fall in love in Ang Lee's western, based on a story by Annie Proulx. The lovers in question are Jake Gyllenhaal and Heath Ledger; with Michelle Williams, Anne Hathaway and Randy Quaid.A related article is on Page 12.

THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA: THE LION, THE WITCH AND THE WARDROBE Walt Disney Pictures and Walden Media are hoping to start a ''Lord of the Rings''-like franchise with this first in a planned series of films based on the epic fantasy by C. S. Lewis. Andrew Adamson, who directed and wrote the screenplay with Ann Peacock, Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely, is best known for the computer-animated ''Shrek.'' Tilda Swinton plays the White Witch; Liam Neeson lends his voice to the Christlike lion, Aslan. A related article is on Page. 7.

EK AJNABEE The title of this Bollywood film translates as ''One Stranger'' and presumably refers to the character played by the Bollywood legend Amitabh Bachchan -- an aging gunman hired to protect an 8-year-old girl (played, no doubt, by a Mumbai Dakota Fanning) from a kidnapping plot. Apoorva Lakhia directs.

MAREBITO Shinya Tsukamoto, the Japanese cult director known for ''Tetsuo: The Iron Man,'' returns to acting as the protagonist of a new shocker by Takashi Shimizu (''The Grudge''). He plays a cameraman who prowls the streets of Tokyo, trying to capture authentic images of fear. And then he meets a mysterious young woman who leads him into an underground society of sadistic robots. And just in time for Christmas, too.

MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA The Arthur Golden novel has been in development for what seems like decades; it's now emerging under the direction of Rob Marshall, whose only previous theatrical film was the Oscar-winning ''Chicago.'' The story, of a poor girl from a fishing village who becomes the most celebrated geisha of the 20th century, may be Japanese in origin, but the cast is full of Chinese stars, including Ziyi Zhang as the central character and Gong Li and Michelle Yeoh as her rivals. The leading man Ken Watanabe, however, is indisputably Japanese. A related article is on Page 4.

MRS. HENDERSON PRESENTS The legend of Laura Henderson (Judi Dench), a wealthy society figure who founded the Windmill Theater, home of London's first all-nude review. With Christopher Guest, Bob Hoskins and Anna Brewster; the director is Stephen Frears.

THE WORLD'S FASTEST INDIAN Anthony Hopkins is the unlikely star of this inspirational sports film, in which he plays Burt Monro, a New Zealand motorcycle buff who set a land speed record in 1967. Roger Donaldson directed, returning to his native New Zealand after a frustrating Hollywood career.

Dec. 14

THE GRACE LEE PROJECT The Asian-American filmmaker Grace Lee combs the country for women who share her name, and learns about her ethnic identity while she's at it.KING KONG Peter Jackson's film is billed as a faithful remake of the Merian C. Cooper-Ernest B. Schoedsack classic, complete with computer-generated visions of New York City in the 1930's. Naomi Watts steps into the Fay Wray role, as the actress drafted by an adventure-loving filmmaker (Jack Black) to star in a semi-documentary being shot on remote, mysterious Skull Island. Adrien Brody is the writer on the project; Andy Serkis (a k a Gollum, in Mr. Jackson's ''Lord of the Rings'' trilogy) is the ship's cook. With Thomas Kretschmann, Colin Hanks and Jamie Bell.

THE THREE BURIALS OF MELQUIADES ESTRADA An Oscar-qualifying run for Tommy Lee Jones's first feature film as a director; he also stars, as a Texas ranch foreman who takes it upon himself to avenge the killing of a Mexican friend. The script, by Guillermo Arriaga of ''21 Grams,'' won the writing award at Cannes this year (and Mr. Jones the acting prize).

Dec. 16

ELECTRIC SHADOWS The trials and tribulations of a pair of film lovers during the Cultural Revolution. Xiao Jiang, a Chinese woman making her first feature, is the director.

THE FAMILY STONE Everett Stone (Dermot Mulroney) brings his uptight fianc?e (Sarah Jessica Parker) home for Christmas, but the family matriarch (Diane Keaton) can't stand her. Thomas Bezucha (''Big Eden'') wrote and directed; the cast includes Claire Danes, Rachel McAdams, Craig T. Nelson and Luke Wilson. A related article is on Page 12.

THE PRODUCERS At least this one is a musical remake. Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick repeat their Broadway roles in Susan Stroman's adaptation of the Mel Brooks-Thomas Meehan stage show. Will Ferrell steps in for Kenneth Mars as the goose-stepping author of ''Springtime for Hitler.'' With Uma Thurman and Andrea Martin. A related article is on Page 4.

THE PROMISE Chen Kaige (''Farewell, My Concubine'') directs what is being billed as the most expensive production in Chinese film history. It's a romantic fantasy set in the ancient past, about a princess (Cecilia Cheung) who draws the love of a duke (Nicholas Tse).

WHEN THE SEA RISES Romance blossoms between a traveling performer (Yolande Moreau) and an outcast who makes giant puppets for parades (Wim Willaert). Ms. Moreau wrote and directed this French-Belgian production with Gilles Porte.

Dec. 21

CHEAPER BY THE DOZEN II The world will soon be divided into those who remember when Steve Martin was hip, and those who think he's the new Dean Jones. Here he is fronting a sequel to his successful family comedy of 2003, with the help of Bonnie Hunt, Piper Perabo and the multifaceted Hilary Duff. Adam Shankman directs.

FUN WITH DICK AND JANE Jim Carrey and T?a Leoni in a remake of the 1977 comedy about a Middle American couple who turn to armed robbery to make ends meet. Dean Parisot, who directed the delightful ''Galaxy Quest,'' is at the helm; with Alec Baldwin and Angie Harmon.

HOSTEL The director Eli Roth showed good instincts for genre form in his debut film, ''Cabin Fever''; he's back with another horror film, with Quentin Tarantino as one of the executive producers and a plot line about three American tourists who check into the wrong hotel somewhere in darkest Slovakia.

THE WHITE COUNTESS A blind, embittered former American diplomat (Ralph Fiennes) resolves to create the perfect dive bar in the Shanghai of the 1930's. Natasha Richardson plays the taxi dancer who helps him out. James Ivory directed from Kazuo Ishiguro's screenplay.

Dec. 23

Cach? (HIDDEN) Michael Haneke took the directing award at this year's Cannes Film Festival for this French-made thriller about a Parisian literary television host (Daniel Auteuil) who discovers his home is under surveillance for unknown but surely sinister reasons. With Juliette Binoche. A related article is on Page 16.

FREEDOMLAND Richard Price's novel, centered on a New Jersey woman (Julianne Moore) who may be lying when she claims a black carjacker has made off with her 4-year-old son. Samuel L. Jackson is the detective on the case; Edie Falco the local reporter who suspects something is wrong. Joe Roth directs.

THE MATADOR An assassin with emotional problems (Pierce Brosnan) meets a stressed-out businessman (Greg Kinnear) and his wife (Hope Davis) in a Mexico City bar. They have dinner together, with life-changing consequences. With Philip Baker Hall, Dylan Baker and Adam Scott. Richard Shepard directs.

MUNICH Eric Bana portrays a Mossad agent on the trail of the Palestinian terrorists who carried out the massacre at the 1972 Olympics. Steven Spielberg directs; with Daniel Craig, Geoffrey Rush and Mathieu Kassovitz.

THE RINGER Executive produced by the Farrelly brothers, Barry Blaustein's comedy stars Johnny Knoxville as a gambler who hopes to fix the Special Olympics by posing as a contestant. But when the other athletes discover his fraud, they befriend him and help him to train. With Brian Cox and Katherine Heigl.

Dec. 25

CASANOVA What's Oscar season without a new film by Lasse Hallstrom? The director of ''The Shipping News'' and ''Chocolat'' offers Heath Ledger as the legendary lover of the title. Sienna Miller is the elusive object of his obsession. With Jeremy Irons, Lena Olin and Oliver Platt. A related article is on Page 12.

HOODWINKED An animated retelling of ''Little Red Riding Hood,'' presumably packed with hip pop culture references and subtle flatulence jokes, just like most other recent animated retellings. Directed by Cory Edwards, Todd Edwards and Tony Leech; the voice talent includes Anne Hathaway, Glenn Close, Patrick Warburton and David Ogden Stiers.

THE NEW WORLD A peaceful community is invaded by violence-prone aliens in Terrence Malick's revisionist history of the early English settlements in Virginia. Colin Farrell is John Smith; Q'Orianka Kilcher is his Pocahontas. With Christopher Plummer, Wes Studi, Christian Bale and David Thewlis. A related article is on Page 8.

RUMOR HAS IT Jennifer Aniston as a bride-to-be who discovers that her mother (Shirley MacLaine) may have been the model for Mrs. Robinson in ''The Graduate.'' Mark Ruffalo plays her uncertain fianc?; Kevin Costner is the possible Benjamin figure. Rob Reiner directed, replacing the screenwriter, Ted Griffin, during the production. With Mena Suvari.

Dec. 28

MATCH POINT Woody Allen got his best reviews in years when this romantic comedy was shown in Cannes. Scarlett Johanssonplays the pivotal figure, a cold-hearted American seductress who is involved with both a former tennis pro (Jonathan Rhys-Meyers) and his best friend (Matthew Goode) in London. With Emily Mortimer, Penelope Wilton and Brian Cox. A related article is on Page 3.

MY NAME WAS SABINA SPIELREIN Elisabeth M?rton's documentary examines the life of Carl Jung's first analytic patient, who later became a psychiatrist herself.

January

Jan. 6

FATELESS The great Hungarian cinematographer Lajos Koltai (''Time Stands Still'') directs his first film, an adaptation of the Imre Kertesz novel about a 14-year-old Jewish boy (Marcell Nagy) who survives the Holocaust but must then learn to survive the liberation, when he returns to a Budapest that would prefer to forget.

GRANDMA'S BOY Alex (Allen Covert), a lovable loser and 35-year-old professional tester of video games, moves in with his grandmother (Doris Roberts) and her two elderly roommates. Hilarity ensues! Nick Goossen directed.IDLEWILD Two members of OutKast, Andr? Benjamin (a k a Andr? 3000) and Antwan Patton (Big Boi), star as a piano player and a nightclub singer in a musical set in the American South of the 1930's. Bryan Barber directed and wrote the script with Doug Stern.

RUNNING SCARED Paul Walker sports some facial hair as a big-city cop in trouble with the mob, his wife and a corrupt colleague (Chazz Palminteri). Wayne Kramer (''The Cooler'') directs.

WOLF CREEK A trio of attractive young tourists (Cassandra Magrath, Nathan Phillips, Kestie Morassi) backpacking through the Australian outback run into some ''Texas Chainsaw''-type trouble in this Aussie variant on the ever popular crazed-hayseed genre. Greg McLean directed.

Jan. 13

DATE MOVIE More genre parody from part of the team behind ''Scary Movie 3'' -- shouldn't they have called this one ''Chick Flick''? Alyson Hannigan plays the lonely urban romantic who falls for a handsome British cad (Adam Campbell) with a name that can't be printed in a family newspaper. Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer direct.

GLORY ROAD More sports-related inspiration from the Walt Disney organization. This one is based on the 1966 Texas Western basketball team that became the first to win the N.C.A.A. championship with an all-black lineup. Josh Lucas plays the coach who leads them from zeros to heroes; James Gartner directs.

LAST HOLIDAY A shy saleswoman (Queen Latifah) decides to carpe that diem and take the European vacation she's always dreamed of. Wayne Wang directed this remake of the 1950 Alec Guinness vehicle, which seems to have undergone some alterations.

Jan. 20

END OF THE SPEAR A group of five American missionaries are murdered by an Amazon tribe in 1956, in a true-life story directed by Jim Hanon and written by Mr. Hanon, Bill Ewing and Bart Gavigan.

LOOKING FOR COMEDY IN THE MUSLIM WORLD Albert Brooks wrote and directed this mockumentary, a form he helped create with the brilliant ''Real Life'' (1979). He plays himself, more or less -- a Hollywood comic who is tapped by the clueless United States government to find out what, if anything, makes Muslims laugh.

UNDERWORLD: EVOLUTION The epic battle of the vampires versus the werewolves, explored in ''Underworld'' (2003), continues in this sequel, still under the direction of Len Wiseman. Kate Beckinsale returns as the dashing vampire heroine; Scott Speedman is the half-werewolf who shares her quest.

WHY WE FIGHT Eugene Jarecki's documentary appropriates the title of Frank Capra's famous series of World War II propaganda films, but comes to a conclusion that differs from Capra's: we fight to keep the economy moving. The talking heads include John McCain, Gore Vidal and William Kristol.

Jan. 27

ANNAPOLIS An ambitious officer candidate (James Franco) learns to be a man from his commanding officer (Tyrese Gibson) in yet another inspiring tale from the Walt Disney organization. Justin Lin, in quite a stretch from his darkly comic 2002 ''Better Luck Tomorrow,'' is the director.

BIG MOMMA's HOUSE 2 The public demanded more of Martin Lawrence in fat-suit and drag, and Fox, ever compassionate, has responded with this sequel to Mr. Lawrence's thespian triumph of 2000. John Whitesell directed.

BUBBLE Made with nonprofessional actors in a small Ohio town, Steven Soderbergh's digitally shot murder mystery will make its debut simultaneously in theaters, on DVD and on HDNet. Good luck with that.

NANNY MCPHEE Universal goes looking for its children's franchise with this strangely familiar sounding story of a nanny with magical powers (Emma Thompson, who also wrote the screenplay) who steps in to straighten out the ill-behaved children of an English family. With Colin Firth, Derek Jacobi and Angela Lansbury.

TRISTAM SHANDY: A COCK AND BULL STORY From the prolific Michael Winterbottom, an adaptation of Laurence Sterne's premodernist novel about an 18th-century eccentric (Steve Coogan) whose attempt to tell his life story is constantly interrupted by apparently irrelevant distractions. In Mr. Winterbottom's version, it's the shooting of the film that starts and stops. With Rob Brydon, Gillian Anderson, Kelly Macdonald, Jeremy Northam and Shirley Henderson.

All dates are subject to change.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''Jarhead,'' above, the film version of Anthony Swofford's Persian Gulf war memoir, stars Jake Gyllenhaal, far left. At right, Sarah Silverman brings her caustic comedy act to the screen in ''Jesus Is Magic'' (Photo by Universal Studios)
(Photo by John Shearer)
(Photo by 20th Century Fox)
Disney's ''Chicken Little'' features Zach Braff's voice in the title role. (Photo by Disney)(pg. 20)
Jake Gyllenhaal (left) and Heath Ledger in ''Brokeback Mountain'' (top)
Shirley MacLaine and Jennifer Aniston in ''Rumor Has It'' (below). (Photo by Melissa Moseley/Warner Brothers Pictures)
(Photo by Kimberley French/Focus Features)
King Kong as himself in ''King Kong'' (above)
Charlize Theron as the action hero Aeon Flux in ''Aeon Flux.'' (Photo by Weta Digital/Universal Studios)
(Photo by Jasin Boland/Paramount)
Lauren Cohen as Sister Beatrice tempts Heath Ledger as Casanova in ''Casanova.'' (Photo by Disney)(pg. 22)
Marcell Nagy stars in ''Fateless,'' directed by Lajos Koltai from a novel by Imre Kertesz about a young Holocaust survivor. (Photo by Buda Gulyas/Think Film)
 Albert Brooks in ''Looking for Comedy in the Muslim World.'' (Photo by Lacey Terrell/Shangri-La Entertainment)(pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ANIMATION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (74%); DESERT STORM (70%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (70%); IRAQ WAR (69%); HIP HOP CULTURE (68%); RAP MUSIC (63%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%); FASHION SHOWS (60%); THEATER (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (91%); WEINSTEIN CO LLC (84%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (91%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (91%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (91%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (84%)

PERSON: JAKE GYLLENHAAL (76%); HEATH LEDGER (71%); 50 CENT (71%); JULIETTE BINOCHE (56%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (56%); JENNIFER ANISTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (78%); SOUTH AFRICA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



139 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1372 words

HEADLINE: The Rich and the Rest

BYLINE: By Charles Peters. 
Charles Peters is the author of ''Five Days in Philadelphia: The Amazing 'We Want Willkie!' Convention of 1940 and How It Freed FDR to Save the Western World.''

 BODY:
RESTLESS GIANT
 The United States From Watergate
 to Bush v. Gore.
 By James T. Patterson.
 Illustrated. 448 pp. Oxford University Press. $35.
THIS is first-rate history by a first-rate historian. Unlike many of his brethren, James T. Patterson can write, and he understands the value of vivid detail, using ''Annie Hall,'' ''Norma Rae'' and ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show'' to help explain the women's movement. What's more, he can think, and he offers analysis and interpretation that is consistently sensible, if sometimes a trifle Panglossian.
 The events he describes make up the history -- social, economic and political -- of the United States during the final quarter of the 20th century, from Richard Nixon's departure from the White House and America's departure from Vietnam to the bitter partisanship of Bill Clinton's impeachment and Bush v. Gore. 
 In between, he recalls the Ford and Carter administrations and the Iranian hostage crisis, the rise of Ronald Reagan and the resurgence of American conservatism, Bush 1 and Iraq 1, and President Clinton's economic triumphs and missed opportunities. 
 These were the years the Republicans took over. They gained control of the judiciary. Reagan alone, Patterson notes, appointed ''nearly half of all judges'' on the federal courts. Five Republican justices of the United States Supreme Court awarded the presidency to a Republican in 2000. And the Republicans chipped away at Democratic majorities in Congress before taking control of both houses in 1994. 
 The conservative surge found new foot soldiers among the growing ranks of evangelical Christians, the great majority of whom leaned to the right. This tendency was intensified by the failure of liberals to try to reach out to the evangelicals. Patterson views these developments with equanimity, seeing a country still dominated by reasonable centrists as the new century began and citing the close 2000 election to illustrate his point. A worried liberal might argue that the rightward trend continued in 2004, as George W. Bush won by a clear majority.
 Nonetheless, one of the high points of Patterson's book is his account of how the Supreme Court handed the presidency to a candidate who had lost the popular vote by more than a half-million, using legal reasoning that conspicuously departed from the conservative judicial principles ordinarily favored by the five justices in the majority. Although Patterson makes clear that more Floridians intended to vote for Gore than for Bush, his keen sense of fairness, one of his great merits, leads him not only to a sympathetic recitation of Republican arguments but also to pointed criticism of Gore's attempts to cherry-pick the votes to be reviewed.
 Equally admirable is the account of the Reagan era. Patterson avoids both the automatic adulation of the right and the reflexive dismissiveness of the left. He recognizes Reagan's admirable refusal to follow the established foreign policy wisdom, which viewed the Soviet Union as a reality that must be accepted. Yet even as Reagan condemned the ''evil empire,'' he reached out to Mikhail Gorbachev to achieve the first nuclear disarmament agreement between the United States and the Soviets. This was the good side of Reagan that liberals resist conceding. His other side, the one conservatives refuse to acknowledge, is also captured by Patterson, who shows us a president too fond of tax cuts and big business and often alarmingly disconnected from what was happening in his own administration.
 Elsewhere, Patterson equals or comes very close to the high level he attains writing about Reagan. He made me sympathize for the first time with Gerald Ford's pardon of Nixon; he reminds us that if we must go to war, Bush 1's way is infinitely preferable to his son's; and he exposes the disgraceful widening gap between the rich and the rest of us. ''By 1998,'' he notes, ''the average income of the 13,000 wealthiest families in the United States was 300 times that of average families.''
 My main complaint about ''Restless Giant'' is that there is not enough of it. Patterson's previous work in the ''Oxford History of the United States'' series, ''Grand Expectations,'' covering the period from 1945 to 1974, weighed in at 829 pages, while the current volume, covering just four fewer years, has only 448. The result is that some important matters are either ignored or given too little attention.
 One example is the rise of the meritocracy and the accompanying obsession with test scores, school admission and the acquisition of badges of taste and intellect recognizable by other members of the educated elite. That group, largely composed of political liberals, has become more concerned with distinguishing itself from average Americans than with reaching out to them. This development is not unrelated to the fact that average Americans have been steadily deserting liberalism and the Democratic Party. 
 Another disappointment is Patterson's failure to explore what has gone wrong with journalism. He sees how a mixture of sex, violence and fame, as in the O. J. Simpson case, can mesmerize the news media. But he does not seem aware that too many reporters, yearning to be stars themselves, prefer to cover such stories. When one Big Story dominates the news, important problems are not faced because they are underreported or not reported at all. Consider, for instance, what went wrong at FEMA between 2001 and 2005 and how we didn't read about it until after Hurricane Katrina.
 The Big Story can also lead to absurdity, and this Patterson does understand. Recalling Monica Lewinsky's appearance on ''20/20'' with Barbara Walters, he writes: ''An estimated 70 million Americans watched. . . . No single network 'news' program had ever been seen by so many people. ABC demanded and received record payments . . . for commercials. And what commercials! These included Victoria's Secret lingerie, the Oral-B deluxe toothbrush and a promo for the movie 'Cleopatra' that included the voice-over: 'When she was 20, she seduced the most powerful leader in the world.' A Maytag ad boasted of its product, 'It actually has the power to remove stains.' '' 
 Like most historians (and reporters, for that matter), Patterson exhibits little understanding of practical politics. By joining those who scorn Clinton's use of the Lincoln Bedroom for political fund-raising, the author shows he never had to face the problem of trying to find clean money for a campaign. If he had, he would realize that giving a contributor a bed for the night is far preferable to giving him influence over official decisions.
 Patterson's tendency to see the glass as half full colors his treatment of the increase in partisanship. When he says there are enough ''moderates, independents and centrists'' to make the system work, he is not describing today's Washington. He is right to say the people are not as partisan as the politicians, but it is the politicians who make the laws and who determine what government does or doesn't do.
 PATTERSON captures one of the era's most deplorable trends, the increase in individual and group selfishness that has manifested itself in, among other things, huge executive salaries and irresponsible tax cuts. He also zeroes in on one cause of this trend that few others have perceived: the ''rights revolution,'' which brought laudable progress for blacks, women and the disabled, but as it spread to other individuals and groups often transformed itself into a sense of entitlement without accompanying obligation, of rights without duties. 
 The author seems almost fatalistic about this trend. When he observes that Americans are not given to sacrifice, he appears to forget there was a time when we all did our part. From 1940 until the escalation in Vietnam in the mid-60's, Americans of every class were willing to subject themselves to a military draft. That ended with Lyndon Johnson's unfair draft, but it proved Americans are capable of sacrifice for the good of the country -- and not just for a day or two.
 Still, despite its faults, ''Restless Giant'' is a splendid book that will come to be regarded as indispensable to everyone who cares about the history of this country.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Viktor Koen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); TRENDS (69%); RELIGION (68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (56%); HOSTAGE TAKING (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2006



140 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Dance Preservation Organization, in Financial Turmoil, Lays Off Most of Staff

BYLINE: By ERIKA KINETZ

 BODY:
Since it was founded in 1940, the Dance Notation Bureau has been at the forefront of dance preservation, and it has one of the most important collections of dance scores in the nation. But on Oct. 28, it laid off five of its six staff members, including its executive director, Ilene Fox.
 ''We ran out of money,'' said Lynne Weber, chairwoman of the board of the New York-based organization. ''We were not aware the financial situation was as bad as it was.'' 
Dance notation, using a system of symbols called Labanotation and functioning much like a music score, enables dances to be recreated accurately long after a choreographer has died. The bureau's library houses more than 700 scores for dances by choreographers from George Balanchine and Doris Humphrey to Bill T. Jones and Mark Morris. It also has other material that can help in reconstructing a work, including videotapes and films, musical scores, costume sketches, photographs and old programs.
 In addition to Western theatrical dance, the collection includes scores for social, historical and folk dances from around the world. It is thus an important resource for companies recreating works and for scholars of dance history. 
 For now, the library remains active and accessible. (Mei-Chen Lu, who oversees it, was the only employee to survive the cuts.) But the institution is on the ropes.
 Grant money it had been expecting failed to materialize. The fall membership drive met with lackluster results. And individual donations, which constitute about half of the $300,000 annual operating budget, are also down.
 The fiscal problems were aggravated by disorganization. Within the last few years, three board members and one employee have died, Ms. Weber said in an interview on Friday. In May, the bookkeeper stopped showing up for work. Ms. Fox, as executive director, spent the summer teaching in Taiwan, giving a presentation in Malaysia, attending a conference in London and working on a major grant application. A new bookkeeper was brought on board only in late September.
 ''I was doing three jobs,'' Ms. Fox said. ''I kept saying my title should be changed from executive director to chief juggler.''
 The September board meeting was canceled. Not until an executive committee meeting on Oct. 26 did the extent of the fiscal crisis become clear.
 ''We were spending more than we were taking in,'' Ms. Weber said. ''The executive committee realized we had to take drastic measures to make sure we survived.''
 Ms. Weber, Ms. Fox and Senta Driver, another board member, went directly to the office, on West 30th Street, and informed the staff that everyone except the librarian would be laid off two days later. The news came as a shock to employees.
 ''We didn't expect it at all,'' said Mira Kim, a notation associate responsible for digitizing handwritten scores. A donation has since come in that will make it possible for Ms. Kim to return to work today. ''I'm super-excited,'' she said by telephone on Friday, minutes after learning that she was no longer unemployed.
 For an organization with almost no staff and no money, the Dance Notation Bureau is still buzzing. Call the office, and someone will answer. On Friday, five people -- four of them volunteers -- turned up to work.
 ''It looks like we will be able to survive,'' Ms. Weber said. ''What we need to do is restructure.''
 Projects with outside financing will go forward. The bureau offers the only professional certification program for dance notation in the country. Classes for the two current students will continue, and this spring, the bureau's extension at Ohio State University will check the score for Mark Morris's ''All Fours,'' as planned, verifying the notation work that has already been done and mounting a staging based on it for Mr. Morris's review.
 The bureau is still waiting for a $42,000 grant that would allow it to create scores for two pieces, one by William Forsythe and one by Martha Graham. It is also hoping to get financing to continue developing LabanDancer, a software program that translates dance scores into animation.
 Calls of support have come in, but little money. ''They all want to send petitions,'' said Ms. Driver, the board member, who has been helping spearhead the restructuring. ''We haven't figured out to whom we might send them.''
 The bureau is still searching for long-term solutions. It is considering subletting part of its office space and trying to forge alliances with other institutions, but its immediate plan is to hope the grants come in and donations increase.
 ''Right now we're taking it day by day,'' said Ms. Weber, the chairwoman. ''Are we going to be smaller? The same size? What are we going to look like? We don't know.''
 Labanotated dance scores, which can take years to create, are more precise than video recordings, the most widely used method of preservation today. In videos, dancers may be blocked, depending on the angle of the camera. Moreover, different dancers perform the same choreography differently, and even the same dancer can perform the same role differently on different nights. So as a dance passes from generation to generation, the choreographer's intent can become muddied
 ''We take it absolutely for granted that we can continue to enjoy Bach or Beethoven,'' said Ms. Fox, the former executive director. ''Everyone has seen a work of Shakespeare at one time or another. Dance doesn't have that kind of legacy.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A primer on Labanotation, the system of symbols for recording a choreographic work, from the Web site of the Dance Notation Bureau, which has a library of more than 700 dance scores as well as other materials for recreating dances. (Photo by dancenotation.org)(pg. E4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LIBRARIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); DANCE (73%); FUNDRAISING (64%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) TAIWAN (77%); UNITED STATES (72%); MALAYSIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



141 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Native Eyes on a Land South of the Clouds

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
He was herding goats high up the creases of sacred Mount Kawagebo when the morning light seemed right, recalled Ananzhu, an ethnic Tibetan from an isolated village of southern China. So he took out his camera. The scene he captured that day, of an emerald lake beneath two conical, ice-capped peaks, was both stunning and layered with meanings. 
 Ananzhu (he has only one name) was carrying a camera provided by the United States-based Nature Conservancy as part of a Photovoice project. 
More than 250 people from 60 villages in northern Yunnan province, all from ethnic minorities, have been given a way to document, through their own eyes, their cultures and surroundings. 
 His alpine scene is one of some 45 photographs from the project now on display at the American Museum of Natural History in ''Voices From South of the Clouds'' (a reference to Yunnan, Chinese for ''south of the clouds''). The exhibition is in the small Akeley gallery, behind the African mammals, and runs until March 12. 
 Ananzhu was one of three village photographers the conservancy brought to New York last week for a cultural celebration. The pictures provide a record of endangered traditions and landscapes but the main goal, said Ann McBride Norton, a conservancy adviser in Asia who organized the project, is to give a voice to northern Yunnan's diverse peoples. 
 The region's myriad ethnic groups -- including many people who are illiterate and do not even speak Chinese -- are facing surges in tourism, road-building and investment. The conservancy is working with local officials to promote environmentally benign development, an idea with shallow roots in economically booming China. 
 With some of the last unspoiled remnants in all of China, Yunnan is not only ethnically but also biologically rich, a ''hot spot'' for plant species including 162 species of rhododendron that sprinkle the hillsides with pink flowers each spring. 
 Helping indigenous people to document themselves with photographs is a longtime technique of anthropologists. The Natural History museum was drawn to the Yunnan pictures because they capture the nexus between culture and environment, said Eleanor Sterling, co-curator of the show and director of the museum's center for biodiversity and conservation. And crucially, she said, ''the photos were spectacular.'' 
 In starting the project, Ms. Norton drew inspiration and advice from the Center for Documentary Studies at Duke University, where the photographer Wendy Ewald has been a pioneer in the combined use of cameras and writing as a way to stimulate learning and community awareness in schools and elsewhere. 
 ''Photography is a pretty democratic art form,'' noted Katy Hyde, director of the Literacy Through Photography program at the Duke center.
 For the Yunnan project, the Eastman Kodak Company donated point-and-shoot cameras (a model that sells for $7 in China). In short training sessions, villagers were taught how to use them and, rather than being told what makes a good picture, they were shown multitudes of photographs and encouraged to discuss what they liked and why. 
 They are provided with one roll of film each month, along with the results of the previous month's effort. They are asked to provide background information on the pictures that is sometimes quite revealing. 
 In the case of his mountain scene, Ananzhu, 41, wrote that when he saw the same spot as a child, the lake was much smaller. ''The glacier is shrinking and the lake is growing, and we don't know why,'' he said in an interview. 
 When his picture was displayed in his home village of Yubeng, elders were prompted to tell children the sacred meaning of the pictured valley: the meeting place of the war gods of Mount Kawagebo. 
 Several of the fledgling photographers turned out to have a particularly good eye. Hong Zhengyong's image of a girl in distinctive ethnic dress slaughtering a chicken amid dazzling yellow fields, for example, is one of several in the exhibition with classic diagonals and symmetries. 
 Mr. Hong, 28, mainly photographed his father, one of the last great Yi shamans, performing healing rituals and animal sacrifices. ''I worry that the knowledge will be lost,'' he said in New York. He documented the rituals just in time: his father recently died. 
 Some of the pictures celebrate scenic splendors and participants, including Ananzhu, said they did not fully appreciate the beauty around them until they saw it in a photograph. 
 Others document hardships: children collecting firewood, or writing their homework on the side of a basket as they accompany their parents to farm plots. The caption to a picture of a Tibetan woman milking a yak in a blizzard says, ''Even in wintertime we have to go out to get milk.''
 After touring New York, the villagers said they were impressed but not overawed. The buildings are very tall, said Ananzhu. ''But even the tallest building,'' he noted, ''is not as high as our lowest mountain.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Yunnan, China, examining images of a Nature Conservancy project. (Photo by Nan Jie/Nature Conservancy)(pg. E1)
''Old Women Chatting,'' a photograph of village life taken by a member of the Bai ethnic minority. (Photo by Zhao Jihua/Nature Conservancy)
''Voices From South of the Clouds,'' an exhibition at the American Museum of Natural History, features photographs by members of ethnic minorities living in northern Yunnan Province, China. Above from left, a woman offers prayers to the god of earth with chicken blood
a village elder reads scripture of dongba, an animist religion that is dying out
children carry firewood after school
women sweep up and bag bran
left, a valley in Wanglibi Village. (Photos by From left, Hong Zhengyong, He Xiudong, Wujiacili and Wang Xinyun/Nature Conservancy)
 (Photo by Wang Tingguang/Nature Conservancy)(pg. E7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ETHNICITY (90%); MAMMALS (90%); HISTORY (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); BIODIVERSITY (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); EXHIBITIONS (74%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (97%); SOUTH CHINA (91%); YUNNAN, CHINA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); TIBET (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



142 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Oil Producers Are Urged To Invest in More Capacity

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Oil prices will keep rising over the next two decades unless the oil-rich nations of the Middle East and North Africa substantially increase investments in their energy sectors, warns a new report to be released today by the organization that represents energy-consuming nations. 
 The World Energy Outlook, an annual publication that outlines long-term forecasts by the International Energy Agency in Paris, calls on producers like Saudi Arabia to expand their investments to meet a projected 40 percent jump in oil demand by 2030. 
To meet these needs, the agency estimates that $3 trillion is needed for oil exploration, development and refining worldwide during the next 25 years. Middle East and North African producers will need to double their investments to $23 billion a year, or more than $614 billion -- twice the average annual amount spent over the last decade in these regions, according to the report.
 But the energy agency, which represents the interests of oil-consuming nations, including the United States, acknowledged that some countries might not be willing to invest in higher output. Instead, they may seek to curb their output growth, leading to higher oil prices.
 ''If these countries do not increase their investments substantially, we will end up with difficulties on the energy markets,'' said Fatih Birol, the energy agency's chief economist. ''We may end up with much higher prices.'' Mr. Birol, speaking from Paris ahead of the report's release, said, ''The issue in the oil business today is not the reserves but the money, the investment decisions, the investment climate.''
 The energy agency acts as a policy adviser and forecaster for industrialized nations, and its reports are widely read by governments worldwide and the energy industry. But the agency's political bias toward oil-consuming nations sometimes leads it to produce assessments that some consider unrealistic. 
 For example, under the agency's model, Saudi Arabia would need to bring its production up to 18 million barrels a day by 2030 to meet the jump in demand. Today, it produces about 10.5 million barrels a day. 
 Saudi Arabia, which does not allow foreign investments in its oil exploration and production sectors, has disputed such high forecasts in the past. Its own public investment plans call for increasing output to 12.5 million barrels a day by 2009. Saudi officials have said they could increase production to 15 million barrels a day -- but no more -- and sustain such levels for 50 years. 
 The issue of access to reserves, which executives highlighted last year as a main concern, has been overshadowed recently by the debate over whether global oil production is peaking. Mr. Birol said the issue was whether investments were made, not whether reserves existed.
 ''Saudi Arabia has the oil reserves and the domestic capital to boost their production,'' Mr. Birol said. ''But they might not want to increase their investments to boost production. They may want to influence the world price environment.''
 But oil-producing nations can be wary of allowing major foreign investments in their national oil sectors. They may fear creating a glut in supplies that would lead to lower prices, or they may doubt bullish projections for demand. 
 For the first time, Mr. Birol said, the agency has produced an alternative forecast that takes into account lower investments from OPEC and Saudi Arabia, the world's top oil producer. The figures are so low, in fact, that they are below the kingdom's longer-term targets.
 In that so-called deferred scenario, Saudi Arabia's output in 2030 is predicted as 14 million barrels a day, with prices at $86 a barrel by then. 
 It is not the first time that the energy agency has highlighted the need for more investments by OPEC members. The theme has become fairly common for the agency, which has repeatedly asked oil producers to open their energy sectors to foreign companies.
 This year, the report focuses on nine countries in the Middle East and North Africa that have most of the world's oil and gas reserves.
 ''There is considerable uncertainty about the pace at which investment in the region's upstream industry will occur,'' the report said. ''The implications for the rest of the world are profound.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (79%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (93%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



143 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA TALK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: A High-Profile Trial, a TV Show And a Son-in-Law in Charge

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

 BODY:
Television viewers in Montgomery, Ala., might have an opportunity to get to know Richard M. Scrushy, the former chief executive of the HealthSouth Corporation, a lot better. 
 Mr. Scrushy's son-in-law, Michael Plaia, acquired a cable television station in the area just weeks before Mr. Scrushy appeared in federal court to plead not guilty to charges of bribing a former governor of Alabama. And Mr. Plaia said he was open to broadcasting ''Viewpoint,'' a religious show that Mr. Scrushy was host of in Birmingham, Ala., while on trial there. 
 Was the Montgomery purchase a coincidence? Yes, according to Mr. Plaia, who is married to Mr. Scrushy's daughter Christa. ''It was a strategic decision, enabling us to extend our economic reach,'' said Mr. Plaia. ''At the end of the day, we're a business.'' 
 Mr. Plaia drew attention back in January when he spent $2 million to acquire control of a local cable television station near Birmingham, where Mr. Scrushy, 52, was on trial on charges of money-laundering, conspiracy and securities fraud. That station, which reaches more than 200,000 homes in the Birmingham area, broadcast a daily update on Mr. Scrushy's legal travails, ''The Scrushy Trial With Nikki Preede,'' with a former local television reporter as host, as well as ''Viewpoint,'' with Mr. Scrushy and his wife, Leslie. In June, a jury acquitted Mr. Scrushy on all 36 federal counts. 
 Now Mr. Scrushy is accused by federal prosecutors of arranging to cover $500,000 in debts that former Gov. Don Siegelman of Alabama incurred in 1999 while he was pushing for a state lottery. Prosecutors say that in exchange for the help, Mr. Siegelman appointed Mr. Scrushy to a board that oversees requests for hospitals to expand their services. (HealthSouth, Mr. Scrushy's former company, is the nation's largest chain of rehabilitation hospitals.)
 Mr. Plaia's television venture now has the capacity to reach 360,000 households around Alabama, or more than one million potential viewers. A day before submitting his plea on the bribery charges, Mr. Scrushy held a news conference on the set of ''Viewpoint,'' which is still being broadcast in Birmingham, proclaiming his innocence. 
 Mr. Scrushy said through a spokesman that he had no plans to ask his son-in-law to take the program to his new trial venue. 
 But Mr. Plaia said: ''I hope Richard would want to expand his coverage. I'm proud that he's my father-in-law.'' SIMON ROMERO


GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard and Leslie Scrushy are hosts of a religious TV program. (Photo by Philip Barr/The Birmingham News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LITIGATION (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); JURY TRIALS (76%); BRIBERY (76%); VERDICTS (76%); ACQUITTAL (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); LEGAL VENUE (71%); LOTTERIES (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HEALTHSOUTH CORP (92%)

TICKER: HLS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (92%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (92%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (92%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (91%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (90%) ALABAMA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



144 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 405 words

 BODY:

JUMP BALL -- In the past few months, Cablevision announced, then dropped plans to go private, and it offered a huge dividend that benefited the controlling shareholders, the Dolan family. Now, it's fighting with the musicians' union over music for the Rockettes. Say this for Cablevision, which reports earnings this week: it's more entertaining than the Knicks. (Monday.) 


PUMPED UP -- When are oil profits too high? When the Senate notices and drags industry executives to Capitol Hill to explain themselves. Representatives from Exxon, ConocoPhillips, Chevron and Shell are expecting to be grilled during a Senate hearing over the industry's recent revenue figures. (Wednesday.)

WINDOW SEAT -- Two of the country's struggling airlines, their situation made worse recently by escalating energy prices, are scheduled to report earnings this week. Delta Air Lines, which is still operating under bankruptcy court protection, recently announced another round of cuts and layoffs. US Airways, coming out of bankruptcy proceedings, is still planning its merger with AmericaWest. (Wednesday.)

FLAT SCREEN --Dell Inc. faces something new this earnings report: uncertainty. Long a bellwether of the technology sector, Dell issued a disappointing forecast on slowing sales and has also struggled to replicate in home entertainment its success in personal computers. (Thursday.)

THATAWAY -- Two media companies with opposite agendas, DreamWorks Animation SKG and the News Corporation, report their earnings this week. DreamWorks is still sorting through offers for its live-action film business from suitors like NBC Universal and Paramount while the News Corporation, led by Rupert Murdoch, has been in a buying mood. The company has recently made big bets on Internet companies, including a $580 million offer for Intermix Media, the parent company of MySpace.com, the social networking company. (Thursday.)

TRADE WINDS -- High energy prices and the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita are likely to be felt on September's trade figures. Economists are forecasting an imbalance of $61 billion. But economists are predicting a more favorable result from the preliminary report of the University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index. (Thursday.)

ECONOMIC INDICATORS -- Consumer credit for September (Monday); wholesale inventories for September (Wednesday); import prices for October and jobless claims for the week of Oct. 31-Nov. 5.(Thursday.)

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); GOING PRIVATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (87%); CONSUMER CREDIT (87%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); MUSIC (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); INVENTORIES (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); IMPORT PRICES (68%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); IMPORT TRADE (67%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); ANIMATED FILMS (65%); ANIMATION (64%); FILM (64%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (63%); HURRICANES (62%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (50%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (92%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (83%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (82%); DELL INC (82%); MYSPACE INC (82%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (56%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (56%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (54%); DEMAND MEDIA INC (53%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (ASX) (92%); COP (NYSE) (83%); DWA (NASDAQ) (82%); DELL (NASDAQ) (82%); DAL (NYSE) (56%); LCC (NYSE) (56%); DMD (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (83%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (82%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



145 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Pride, Prejudice, Insurance

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman

 BODY:
General Motors is reducing retirees' medical benefits. Delphi has declared bankruptcy, and will probably reduce workers' benefits as well as their wages. An internal Wal-Mart memo describes plans to cut health costs by hiring temporary workers, who aren't entitled to health insurance, and screening out employees likely to have high medical bills.
 These aren't isolated anecdotes. Employment-based health insurance is the only serious source of coverage for Americans too young to receive Medicare and insufficiently destitute to receive Medicaid, but it's an institution in decline. Between 2000 and 2004 the number of Americans under 65 rose by 10 million. Yet the number of nonelderly Americans covered by employment-based insurance fell by 4.9 million. 
The funny thing is that the solution -- national health insurance, available to everyone -- is obvious. But to see the obvious we'll have to overcome pride -- the unwarranted belief that America has nothing to learn from other countries -- and prejudice -- the equally unwarranted belief, driven by ideology, that private insurance is more efficient than public insurance.
 Let's start with the fact that America's health care system spends more, for worse results, than that of any other advanced country.
 In 2002 the United States spent $5,267 per person on health care. Canada spent $2,931; Germany spent $2,817; Britain spent only $2,160. Yet the United States has lower life expectancy and higher infant mortality than any of these countries.
 But don't people in other countries sometimes find it hard to get medical treatment? Yes, sometimes -- but so do Americans. No, Virginia, many Americans can't count on ready access to high-quality medical care.
 The journal Health Affairs recently published the results of a survey of the medical experience of ''sicker adults'' in six countries, including Canada, Britain, Germany and the United States. The responses don't support claims about superior service from the U.S. system. It's true that Americans generally have shorter waits for elective surgery than Canadians or Britons, although German waits are even shorter. But Americans do worse by some important measures: we find it harder than citizens of other advanced countries to see a doctor when we need one, and our system is more, not less, rife with medical errors.
 Above all, Americans are far more likely than others to forgo treatment because they can't afford it. Forty percent of the Americans surveyed failed to fill a prescription because of cost. A third were deterred by cost from seeing a doctor when sick or from getting recommended tests or follow-up.
 Why does American medicine cost so much yet achieve so little? Unlike other advanced countries, we treat access to health care as a privilege rather than a right. And this attitude turns out to be inefficient as well as cruel.
 The U.S. system is much more bureaucratic, with much higher administrative costs, than those of other countries, because private insurers and other players work hard at trying not to pay for medical care. And our fragmented system is unable to bargain with drug companies and other suppliers for lower prices. 
 Taiwan, which moved 10 years ago from a U.S.-style system to a Canadian-style single-payer system, offers an object lesson in the economic advantages of universal coverage. In 1995 less than 60 percent of Taiwan's residents had health insurance; by 2001 the number was 97 percent. Yet according to a careful study published in Health Affairs two years ago, this huge expansion in coverage came virtually free: it led to little if any increase in overall health care spending beyond normal growth due to rising population and incomes. 
 Before you dismiss Taiwan as a faraway place of which we know nothing, remember Chile-mania: just a few months ago, during the Bush administration's failed attempt to privatize Social Security, commentators across the country -- independent thinkers all, I'm sure -- joined in a chorus of ill-informed praise for Chile's private retirement accounts. (It turns out that Chile's system has a lot of problems.) Taiwan has more people and a much bigger economy than Chile, and its experience is a lot more relevant to America's real problems.
 The economic and moral case for health care reform in America, reform that would make us less different from other advanced countries, is overwhelming. One of these days we'll realize that our semiprivatized system isn't just unfair, it's far less efficient than a straightforward system of guaranteed health insurance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); MEDICAID (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); MEDICARE (57%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CARE (54%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (93%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



146 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2383 words

HEADLINE: Delays Hurting U.S. Rebuilding In Afghanistan

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE and CARLOTTA GALL; David Rohde reported from Turmai for this article, and Carlotta Gall from Kabul.

DATELINE: TURMAI, Afghanistan, Nov. 2 

 BODY:
Islamuddin Ahmadiyar, a 22-year-old student, remembers the excitement in this dusty farming hamlet in central Afghanistan when American contractors broke ground two years ago. 
 A one-story, 12-room health clinic, nestled between apple and mulberry tree groves, was to replace the mud hut where the village's lone doctor labored through Afghanistan's quarter-century nightmare of Soviet occupation, civil war and Taliban rule.
But the clinic remains an unfinished shell, one of 96 American-financed clinics and schools that a New Jersey-based company was supposed to build by September 2004. To date, nine clinics and two schools have been completed and passed inspection, according to the company. 
 The company, the Louis Berger Group, says progress has been slowed by the requirement to use Afghan construction companies, forcing it to hunt, sometimes vainly, for those that can work fast and to high standards. A design flaw is also forcing it to replace or strengthen the roofs of 89 of the buildings. 
 ''If you play just the numbers game, we're going to look bad, no doubt about it,'' said Thomas Nicastro, a Louis Berger vice president. ''But if you look at this as a development issue, then you have an understanding of what we're trying to do.''
 Four years after American-led forces ousted the Taliban, the United States has spent $1.3 billion on reconstruction in Afghanistan, intending to win over Afghans with tangible signs of progress. And indeed, there are some. But to Afghans, the Turmai clinic is emblematic of what they see as a wasteful, slow-moving effort that benefits foreigners far more than themselves. ''The aid that comes from other countries for the Afghan people, it's not going to the Afghan people,'' said Mr. Ahmadiyar. ''It's being wasted.''
 The stakes are enormous. Afghans, famed for briefly tolerating and then viciously turning on occupiers from the British in the 19th century to the Soviets in the 1980's, are increasingly disenchanted with the American-led reconstruction program.
 Meanwhile, the United States hopes to withdraw 4,000 soldiers from the country's south next spring; a drop in overall foreign aid is expected; and Taliban attacks are rising. So both Afghan officials and foreign diplomats are assessing what has been achieved during the past four years, and many are disturbed by what they see. 
 Government ministers here say that the foreign consultants and contractors the Americans pay for are producing shoddy work and achieving little -- though charging dearly. 
 ''Assistance is coming to Afghanistan, but we don't know how it is spent, where it is spent,'' said Amin Farhang, the Afghan minister of economy, who oversees foreign assistance programs.
 And a July report by the Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, sharply criticized the American reconstruction effort and the department leading it, the United States Agency for International Development. It said inconsistent financing, severe staff shortages and a lack of oversight slowed the efforts. 
 ''We really need to reform the external assistance in this country,'' said Jean Mazurelle, the World Bank manager in Afghanistan. ''We are not in the position to provide the result on the ground that the people of this country are expecting.''
 Alonzo Fulgham, A.I.D.'s mission director in Kabul, said much progress had been made, citing two national elections, sharply improved health care and five times as many children in school, including 1.6 million girls. He dismissed criticism, saying that under dangerous conditions the agency had produced strong oversight, planning and achievements. He said American programs had built or refurbished 312 schools and 338 clinics, and constructed 500 miles of asphalt road and resurfaced another 500 miles. He said major progress had been made despite Taliban attacks that have killed 80 people working on agency projects, most of them Afghans. 
 The head of A.I.D. in Washington, Andrew Natsios, also defended his agency, which leads the American nation-building efforts in Iraq as well. But he noted that the agency's spending had doubled since 2000 to $14 billion, while its staff of 2,300 had grown by only 100.
 Until this year, the A.I.D. office in Kabul suffered severe personnel shortages that limited its ability to monitor contractors, according to the G.A.O. report. The agency went from 12 staff members in Kabul in 2002 to 39 in 2003, 101 in 2004 and 160 this year, with 35 in outlying provinces. The report said the mission managed $11.2 million per staff member in 2004, while worldwide, the norm is $1.3 million. 
 The reconstruction effort also began slowly. The United States spent $214 million on that in fiscal 2002 and 2003, and then began an ''accelerating success'' initiative to produce more visible achievements before Afghan and American presidential elections in the fall of 2004. Reconstruction spending increased to $1.1 billion in fiscal 2004 and 2005. In Iraq, the United States has spent $9 billion on reconstruction. President Hamid Karzai and his top ministers, who now will have to answer to Parliament as well as the public, are calling for stricter oversight over all and greater government control of reconstruction money. 
 While Afghans remain grateful, they argue that much more could have been achieved. ''This golden period has also been this massive waste period,'' said Jawed Ludin, Mr. Karzai's chief of staff. ''The efficiency has to be increased.''

Slow Gains Cause Rancor
 The discontent was reflected in the elections last month, according to Western diplomats and analysts. Ramazan Bashardost, a demagogic former minister who bitterly, and often falsely, accused ''a mafia'' of foreigners and government officials of pocketing vast amounts of reconstruction funds, was elected to Parliament with the third highest vote total in Kabul. 
 Seated this week outside the modest tent that served as his campaign headquarters, the populist vowed to start a formal investigation when the new Parliament sits next month. ''From the tax money of Americans, these people are living like kings,'' Mr. Bashardost said. ''This money is donated so that it should be given to the hungry people of Afghanistan.''
 At the unfinished health clinic in Turmai, Mr. Ahmadiyar and other college students smiled when asked when they thought the building would open. ''Probably another three years,'' he said, and laughed.
 In 2002 and 2003, profit-making companies won five of six major A.I.D. contracts in education, legal reform, agriculture, economic governance and infrastructure. 
 Louis Berger, an engineering consulting company with 3,000 employees worldwide and extensive construction experience in developing countries, won the largest: a sweeping contract, eventually worth $665 million, to build schools, health clinics, roads and power systems. 
 In April 2003, after President Bush promised a new highway to link Kabul to the former Taliban stronghold of Kandahar by the end of the year, A.I.D. officials directed Louis Berger to focus on the road. 
 The urgency doubled costs, according to the Government Accountability Office report. Louis Berger hired Turkish and Indian road construction companies. Taliban attacks killed several employees and guards. At a final cost of roughly $1 million per mile, the road was completed on schedule. 
 The company's school and clinic program, meanwhile, progressed slowly.
 Mr. Nicastro of Louis Berger said the company and the aid agency decided to build California-standard earthquake-resistant schools and clinics, at a cost of $174,000 for a school and $133,000 for a clinic. It struggled to find Afghan companies that could build to its specifications. 
 Officials from one nonprofit organization, which builds A.I.D.-approved schools for roughly $150,000 and clinics for $85,000, said the Louis Berger designs were more complex than necessary. 
 Louis Berger initially proposed building prefabricated school buildings, a company official said, but aid agency officials rejected the idea because it would not help develop an Afghan construction industry. 
 ''Part of the mission was to build Afghan construction capability,'' said Larry Walker, a vice president. ''By the time we finish, there will be eight Afghan construction firms that are able to do international-quality construction.''
 The company subcontracted the construction of the Turmai clinic to a local company. That company, villagers said, passed the work on to another Afghan company. Neither subcontractor could be reached for comment. 
 The second began work but cut corners, using four reinforcing beams instead of six, putting sand under the floor in some places instead of concrete and building doors out of chipboard instead of wood, according to villagers. That company failed to pay local workers for months. 
 Mohammed Ali, a 40-year-old security guard and father of six who had not been paid for half a year, said American employees of Louis Berger visited the site at least three times. Inspectors contracted by A.I.D. visited weekly, he said. All companies made their profit, he said, but no one seemed to ensure that the clinic would be properly built.
 ''Everyone is doing their reports,'' he said. ''They don't care about what they should actually be doing here.''
 Louis Berger officials said they maintained strict oversight over all their projects and have fired 3 of 11 Afghans subcontractors for poor quality work and other problems.
 Last month Louis Berger hired Afghans to finish the clinic and said it would pay the additional costs itself. The company said all 96 of its contracted buildings would be done by the end of the year. 
 As for the faulty roof design, Louis Berger officials blamed an American subcontractor who they declined to name, saying they were pursuing damages. They said Louis Berger would pay the $3 million costs of strengthening or replacing the 89 roofs. 
 Mr. Fulgham, the A.I.D. director in Kabul, defended Louis Berger's work, saying that finding qualified contractors was difficult and that its road construction was successful. ''It's very easy to look back and be a Monday morning quarterback,'' he said. ''But I think they answered the call.''
 The five nonprofit groups also building schools for A.I.D. have also struggled to find skilled contactors and experienced delays, aid agency officials said, though none as severe as Louis Berger. Development groups with long experience in Afghanistan said Louis Berger's experience showed that large foreign contractors may not be the best choice to build in difficult places like Afghanistan, where intensive supervision is an absolute necessity. One, Swedish Committee for Afghanistan, said it had built 16 health clinics in the northern province of Kunduz on time, while the 16 that were to be built in the same province by Louis Berger remain unfinished four months after the deadline.

Consultants and Criticism
 Louis Berger is not the only company that has drawn criticism. Bearing Point, formerly KPMG Pete Marwick, won an aid agency contract to ''improve economic governance'' in the Afghan Finance Ministry and Central Bank and other ministries. The contract eventually grew to be worth $98 million.
 The company, based in McLean, Va., put roughly 50 foreign advisers to work in the bank and ministries in 2003 and 2004. Bearing Point and A.I.D. officials declined to give the cost, but Afghanistan's current finance minister said it was $500,000 a year for each consultant, roughly $150,000 for a consultant's salary and the rest to cover living expenses and security, and the company's overhead and profit.
 Complaining that the consultants were too numerous and too expensive, and sometimes less effective than expected, Afghan officials tried to terminate the contract in 2004, according to the G.A.O. report. But A.I.D. said the consultants were performing well, and Bearing Point remained. 
 Anwar ul Haq Ahadi, the finance minister (on leave from Providence College in Rhode Island, where he is a professor), cut the number of his Bearing Point advisers roughly in half this year, to 27. 
 ''There were some advisers I don't think were terribly necessary,'' said Mr. Ahadi. ''In some cases, the positions were not necessary, and in other cases they were not the strongest professionals.''
 Rob Hager, an American lawyer and former Bearing Point consultant who now works for the Asian Development Bank in Kabul, agreed that some consultants were subpar. He said A.I.D. should be far more stringent and confrontational with contractors in Afghanistan. ''They can put in any bozo,'' said Mr. Hager. ''Pay them what they want and make their profit.''
 Lori Bittner, a managing director for Bearing Point, declined to state the company's fees, but said they were commensurate with those of other consulting companies. She said that Afghan officials approved the number of consultants and that they had helped introduce a new currency, attracted 12 commercial banks and issued licenses to cellphone companies.
 ''Many of them have been with Bearing Point for 5 to 10 years and have worked in many countries,'' she said. ''They are individuals that know how to build a government, and revamp a government and give advice.'' 
 Some members of Congress say an understaffed A.I.D., which has shrunk from a height of 13,000 during the Vietnam War, has become far too reliant on large construction companies and Washington-based consulting firms to carry out its development programs. ''Usaid increasingly is becoming a check-writing agency,'' said Tim Rieser, an aide to Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont. ''We have to address the agency's staffing shortage in the context of designing and implementing effective programs.'' 
 Eager to blunt Afghan frustration, Mr. Karzai has ordered his ministers to tour the provinces and inspect reconstruction projects.
 Mr. Farhang, the economy minister, said he had used government pressure to force contractors to redo inferior work on two roads and a dozen schools.
 ''The important thing is to have supervision, otherwise we will lose money,'' he said. ''In the end, it is the Parliament and the Afghan people who will ask me and the other ministers what we did and where the money was spent.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 17, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Nov. 7 about Afghan criticisms of the American reconstruction effort in Afghanistan misspelled the name of one firm and incorrectly described its former status. The firm is BearingPoint, not Bearing Point, and it was the former consulting unit of KPMG LLP, and was not formerly KPMG Peat Marwick.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ramazan Bashardost, who has accused foreigners and government officials of pocketing reconstruction funds, was elected to Parliament.
Mohammed Ali, 40, a security guard who has not been paid for six months, keeping watch recently at an unfinished clinic in Turmai, Afghanistan. (Photographs by Scott Eells for The New York Times)(pg. A9)Chart: ''Rebuilding Afghanistan''Reconstruction accounts for much of the nonmilitary spending in Afghanistan.U.S. reconstruction spending in Afghanistan In millions2002: $1382003: 762004: 5382005: 573United States Agency for International Development aid to AfghanistanFiscal Year 2005 total: $1.47 billionReconstruction: $573Alternative livelihoods: 175Support to Afghanistan government: 167Health: 107Democracy/governance: 102Provincial reconstruction teams: 92Education: 90Economic growth: 77Agriculture: 74Program support: 13(Sources by General Accounting Office
 A.I.D.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); TALIBAN (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (88%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); INSPECTIONS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOUIS BERGER GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



147 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1663 words

HEADLINE: Saying Goodbye California Sun, Hello Midwest 

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH and DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: LEE'S SUMMIT, Mo., Nov. 3 

 BODY:
A year ago, Melanie Fischer, a lifelong Californian, was not entirely sure where Missouri was. So when her husband proposed that they consider moving there, she raced to locate the state on a map printed on her children's placemats. 
 Today, Mrs. Fischer and her family live in this suburb of Kansas City, in a five-bedroom house nearly twice the size of their former home near San Bernardino, with a huge yard and a lake view from the hot tub on their deck. Still, Mrs. Fischer, 28, and her husband, Nathan, 30, had enough money left after their move to pay off the debt on their two cars and buy a 21-foot motorboat.
 Many of their new neighbors cannot fathom why the Fischers left sunny California for, of all places, Missouri. ''You have to give up things,'' Mrs. Fischer said, ''to get things.'' 
 A growing number of people are leaving California after a decade of soaring home prices, according to separate data from the Census Bureau, the Internal Revenue Service and the state's finance department. 
 Last year, a half million people left California for other parts of the United States, while fewer than 400,000 Americans moved there. The net outflow has risen fivefold, to more than 100,000, since 2001, an analysis by Economy.com, a research company, shows, although immigration from other countries and births have kept the state's population growing.
 The number of people leaving Boston, New York and Washington is also rising, and skyrocketing house prices appear to be a major reason, said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com. From New York, the net migration to Philadelphia more than doubled between 2001 and 2004, with 11,500 more people leaving New York for Philadelphia last year than vice versa. The number of New Yorkers who have moved to Albany, Charlotte, N.C., and Allentown, Pa., among other places, has also increased sharply.
 But the change seems most pronounced in California, which has long been a beacon that draws people from all over the country, with its sun-drenched coasts and dynamic economy. 
 Today, however, the same factors that have made California so alluring have also made it unaffordable for many young families, retirees and recent immigrants to the United States. Some are heading to fast-growing cities like Las Vegas, as they have been for decades. But even less-glamorous destinations, like the Rust Belt and Texas, are on the receiving end of the migration. 
 The last few years appear to be one of the few times on record that California has lost domestic population when its job market was as healthy as the rest of the country's, economists and demographers said.
 ''People are saying, 'Even though I have to take a 10 percent wage cut to go to Vegas or Phoenix, it's actually a wage increase,' '' said Ross C. DeVol, the director of regional economics at the Milken Institute, a research group in Santa Monica, Calif. ''They look at what housing costs here, and they're making decisions to go elsewhere.''
 Far more Californians are staying -- for the weather, the landscape, the culture and other reasons -- than are moving, but it is also clear that California is losing some of its attraction.
 In a survey of 2,500 Californians last year by the Public Policy Institute of California, a research group, about a third of residents under 35 said the cost of housing was making them consider moving to a less expensive area. Two-thirds of those people said they were thinking of leaving the state. 
 The current migration out of California is not as large as the one in the mid-1990's, which was driven more by job losses in aerospace and other industries than by real-estate prices. 
 Today, the most popular destinations for people moving from Los Angeles and San Francisco are less expensive parts of California, like Riverside and Sacramento. Las Vegas and Phoenix also remain near the top of the list, but Dallas, Houston, Atlanta, Nashville, Virginia Beach and Oklahoma City are becoming popular, according to Economy.com. 
 In the Kansas City area, which straddles Missouri and Kansas, a small band of Californians are discovering the plentiful supply of spacious homes for prices that would not buy a shack back where they came from. 
 ''They just walk in and go 'Wow, we can have space,' '' said Sandy Tasker, a real estate agent with Coldwell Banker in Overland Park, Kan. 
 According to I.R.S. data, the net population transfer to Missouri from California more than tripled, to about 2,200, from 2001 to 2004.
 Guadalupe Osegueda, a 34-year-old ironworker who grew up in Los Angeles, recently chose Kansas City over the desert cities that have traditionally drawn Californians. 
 ''I didn't want to go to Las Vegas or Arizona,'' said Mr. Osegueda, who lives with his fiancee and their two daughters. ''Everyone is going there and the prices have gone up drastically.''
 The couple sold a three-bedroom house near Los Angeles for $450,000. They bought a four-bedroom house, with two kitchens and a swimming pool, for $185,000 in Gladstone, Mo., near Kansas City. 
 With a monthly mortgage payment of only $496, Mr. Osegueda said he hoped he could retire by the time he was 48. In California, he said, ''people need to work all their lives to pay off their home.''
 The Fischers felt like they were running in place to keep up with their $200,000 mortgage, car payments and other expenses when Mr. Fischer, who managed a fast-food restaurant, heard about an arm of a new Christian group forming in Kansas City.
 The couple, who met while training for overseas Christian missions, were intrigued by the idea of joining the group. They searched for homes online and quickly saw how much more they could get for their money. Mrs. Fischer realized she could quit her job as a medical billing supervisor and stay at home with their son, Cole, 7, and their daughters, C. J., 5 and Kendal, 3. Mr. Fischer applied for a job managing a bagel chain store in Kansas City. When they found their house, for $189,000, the move started to fall into place. 
 Mrs. Fischer said that leaving her extended family behind in California was ''traumatic'' and that she missed the warm weather. But she and Mr. Fischer also noted that they had friends who were leaving California for destinations that included Utah and Texas. 
 ''Everybody is always like, 'California, oh, so cool,' '' Mrs. Fischer said. ''But all my friends who were raised there are trying to leave.''
 Perhaps more common than the Fischers' story, however, is the experience of families who leave the state even before they are able to buy a house. Mr. DeVol of the Milken Institute said there seemed to be a rise in the number of Mexican immigrants leaving California after just a few years there. Other young families are making the same decision.
 Heather and John Franklin were renting a one-bedroom apartment in San Diego when they married last year. On Ms. Franklin's income as a real estate agent and Mr. Franklin's pay as a mechanic, they could not afford a house in San Diego, where the median home price is almost $605,000. 
 In Kansas City, where Mr. Franklin, 22, grew up, the couple, who have a seven-month-old daughter, bought a house for $134,000. Ms. Franklin, 24, who was raised in San Diego, never imagined she would leave California. Since moving to Kansas City, she has had to get used to tornado warnings and the concept of wind chill. 
 ''But we are always told how lucky we are to be so young and already have what we have,'' she said, referring to their three-bedroom home. ''We realized we had to sacrifice living in California to get that.''
 That appears to be the biggest cost ofthe nation's bifurcated real-estate market: some families say they have to make decisions based more on home prices than on jobs or family reasons. They end up with more space than they imagined, but they miss other things.
 Sam Cannon and Velia Dayton left Los Angeles two years ago when they and their two young children outgrew their two-bedroom rental apartment. Even with a budget of $450,000, they quickly discovered they could not afford anything less than 70 miles from Mr. Cannon's office. 
 ''The idea of living in the middle of the desert in a prefab 1,200-square-foot home, stretching ourselves financially and driving three hours a day, wasn't appealing anymore,'' Mr. Cannon, 34, said. 
 So the family moved to a suburb of Detroit, where Mr. Cannon's parents live, and he took a job at an Internet marketing firm. They bought a brick Tudor-style house for $310,000, near good schools and a 15-minute drive to his office. 
 Mr. Cannon and Ms. Dayton do miss California's ''culture and excitement and food,'' he said. ''We've been spending two and a half years trying to find good Thai food and still haven't found it yet.''
 They still talk about trying to get back to Los Angeles. But, he lamented, ''housing isn't getting any cheaper there.''

 Reno: +1,058
Kansas City: +22
Miami: +329
Oklahoma City: +52
Madison: +74
Minneapolis: +85
Nashville: +70
Salt Lake: +50
Boise City: +283
Richmond: +155
Austin: +284

How much house can $500,000 buy?

106 Depew Ave.
Buffalo, N.Y.
$489,900
3-bedroom, 4-bath, 85-year-old, 3,802-sq.-ft., 3-story brick house; dining room, French doors, solarium, wrap-around deck, detached carriage house; taxes $9,239. (Broker: Gurney, Becker and Bourne Real Estate)

191 Tucker Ave.
San Francisco,
Calif. $499,000
3-bedroom, 1-bath, 97-year-old, 1,400-sq.-ft., A-frame, twostory fixer- upper, stucco and shingle house; attached garage, deck on a view lot. (Broker: Century 21/Hartford Properties)

6040 Turkey
Hollow Place,
Mechanicsville,
Va. $499,950
In Richmond area. 4-bedroom, 3-bath, oneyear-old, 4,000-sq.-ft. house; eat-in kitchen with pantry, 2-car garage; taxes $3,189. (Broker: Prudential Slater James River, Realtors)

320 West 19th
Street,
New York City
$495,000
1-bedroom apartment in Chelsea; monthly Maintenance $600.00. (Broker: Halstead Property)

Amanda Cox/The New York Times

(Sources by I.R.S.; Economy.com As Home)(pg. A19)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nathan and Melanie Fischer moved their family to a bigger home in Missouri from San Bernardino, Calif. (Photo by Mike Sinclair for The New York Times)(pg. A19)Chart/Map:''San Francisco Has More People Leaving Than Arriving''As house prices have climbed, many people have been priced out of the Bay Area. Now, an increasing number of people are moving out of the state. While a majority continue to move to nearby states like Oregon, Washington, Nevada and Arizona, an increasing number are landing in the Midwest and Southeast. At the same time, the number of people moving into San Francisco from outside the state has slowed to a trickle.Maps of the United States highlight the following:Areas that lost people to the San Francisco area (2001)Southern Calif.: -1,052New York: -2,443Chicago: -1,927Boston: -1,051Washington: -753Philadelphia: -538Houston: -442Detroit: -397Atlanta: -159Minneapolis: -328Kansas City: -146Migration inside Calif. not shown on maps(2004)Chicago: -206Boston: -143Areas that gained people from the San Francisco area (2001)Northern Calif.: +23,099Portland: +1,016Las Vegas: +1,879Reno: +958Phoenix: +508Seattle: +3972004Northern Calif.: +27,929Southern Calif.: +5,397Houston: +451Dallas: +462Las Vegas: +2,499Portland: +895Seattle: +988Phoenix: +1,555Atlanta: +471Washington: +743New York: +624

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); FAMILY (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); CENSUS (69%); TAX AUTHORITIES (67%); EMPLOYMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (84%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); ALBANY, NY, USA (54%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (91%); OREGON, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (84%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



148 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Spinoff Player to Compete In Open-Source Software

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
A Silicon Valley private equity firm plans to announce today that it is buying the Ingres database software from Computer Associates and setting it up as a stand-alone open-source software company.
 The move by the firm, Garnett & Helfrich Capital, is a sign that professional investors are increasingly willing to bet there is a profitable future for companies based on the open-source model of software development. Open-source companies typically distribute the code free, but charge for maintenance and support services.
The Ingres deal is unusual in that it is not a start-up firm but a commercial spinoff. The investors and new management of Ingres Corporation, which will have headquarters in Redwood City, Calif., has the look of an Oracle alumni gathering. 
 Terry Garnett, the chairman of Ingres, is a former senior vice president of marketing and business development at Oracle, the largest supplier of corporate database software. David Dargo, the chief technology officer at Ingres, was the Oracle executive in charge of running its database programs on Linux, the popular open-source operating system.
 Michael S. Rocha, an Ingres board member, is a former executive vice president at Oracle. Another board member, Mark J. Barrenechea, the executive vice president for technology strategy at Computer Associates, is a former senior executive at Oracle.
 Eating away at Oracle's hold on the corporate database market with a low-cost, open-source alternative is part of the long-term plan for Ingres. ''Economically, open source is a disruptive pricing model in the software business and it is moving up from operating systems to the database market,'' Mr. Garnett explained. 
 There are already open-source database products, including MySQL, PostgreSQL and Cloudscape. So the first goal for Ingres, Mr. Garnett said, is to become ''the primary database for business in the open-source market.''
 That will be a challenge, analysts say. MySQL, developed in 1995, has a big lead in the open-source database market and wide following among developers, said Noel Yuhanna, an analyst at Forrester Research.
 Ingres, by contrast, dates back to the 1970's and was picked up by Computer Associates as part of a company it purchased in the 1990's. Ingres, Mr. Yuhanna said, has a reputation as a solid technology but a neglected one within Computer Associates.
 Investment, independence and entrepreneurial incentives for employees, Mr. Garnett added, can give Ingres new momentum in the marketplace. Terms of the purchase were not disclosed, but Garnett & Helfrich specializes in making investments of $50 million or less. Computer Associates will retain a 20 percent stake in the new company.
 To succeed, Ingres must attract a following among corporate customers and outside software programmers, who write the applications that run on databases. 
 At MySQL, there seems to be little concern about competition from Ingres. Like most traditional databases, said Marten Mickos, chief executive of MySQL, Ingres is made to accommodate more and more features, following the Oracle model.
 MySQL, Mr. Mickos said, was created more recently and was made for Internet applications with ease of use, reliability and speed of performance in mind. MySQL, for example, is used behind Google's online advertising system and for 250 applications on Yahoo.
 Analysts say Ingres could do well in corporate data centers as a low-cost database supporting the big applications, like those supplied by SAP, which automate manufacturing, procurement, human resources and other business operations.
 For Computer Associates, the Ingres spinoff is part of the strategy of its new chief executive, John Swainson, who came from I.B.M. less than a year ago. Under Mr. Swainson, the company is focusing more tightly on a few markets like systems management and security software.
 Shortly before Mr. Swainson joined the company, Computer Associates declared Ingres would become an open-source product. ''But what Ingres needed was a really focused team to run a different play,'' he said. ''And that's what Garnett & Helfrich are trying to do.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (95%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (95%); EXECUTIVES (92%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (91%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); STARTUPS (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (73%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); CA INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); CA (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



149 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: China and U.S. Expected To Reach Deal on Textiles

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON and KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
An agreement to limit for three years the surging growth of Chinese textile imports to the United States is expected to be completed as early as this week, Bush administration officials said yesterday.
 Chinese negotiators left Washington last week with a few remaining details expected to be resolved by telephone and videoconferences, two people who have seen the draft agreement said.
 Both Rob Portman, the United States trade representative, and Bo Xilai, the Chinese commerce minister, will be in London and Geneva this week, and Mr. Portman is scheduled to be in Beijing next Monday. 
 Worries that trade frictions could disrupt textile shipments from China have made some American retailers reluctant to place large orders. The deal is reportedly similar to an agreement reached last summer to limit Chinese clothing exports to the European Union, which followed disruption of supplies to retailers.
 Willy Lin, the vice chairman of the Hong Kong Textile Council, which represents many companies with factories in mainland China, said the agreement would help make American retailers more willing to buy from Chinese suppliers.
 ''If they didn't do anything, there would be a lot of uncertainty in the business environment,'' Mr. Lin said.
 Under the 1993 agreement that created the World Trade Organization, member nations agreed to dismantle quotas on textile and apparel imports from all other members as of last Jan. 1. China joined the organization in November 2001, under rules allowing restrictions on its textile and apparel exports through 2008.
 China bought $278 million of American textile products in 2004, while selling 52 times that much, or $14.6 billion, to the United States, according to the United States trade representative's office. In 2002, the United States had 651,000 jobs in textile mills and apparel-making, less than half the number in 1990, data from the Census Bureau show.
 The pending agreement was denounced by Bruce S. Raynor, general president of Unite Here, a union representing textile workers, for being ''unnecessarily generous to the Chinese.''
 ''This agreement will cost tens of thousands of jobs in the United States and in Central America, and it gives us nothing in return,'' Mr. Raynor said.
 He said the government should have demanded that China allow workers to organize unions and negotiate for higher wages. ''If we are going to give up American jobs, at least we ought to help Chinese workers improve their standard of living,'' Mr. Raynor said.
 Overall Chinese textile exports to the United States surged 54 percent in the first eight months of this year, to $17.7 billion, the Chinese government reported last month. American officials put the figure at 46 percent.
 The proposed agreement's numbers appear to allow China to exceed the World Trade Organization safeguards, which limit growth to 7.5 percent annually. But details in the deal define the base in such a way that growth would be slightly less than the limit in 2006, about equal to the limit in 2007, and greater than the limit in 2008, said an American official who has read the proposed agreement.
 The Chinese government owns about half the equity in that country's apparel firms.
 North Carolina had 350,000 textile jobs in 1972, but more than 90 percent of them will be gone by the end of this decade, Mark Vitner, a senior economist at Wachovia Bank in Charlotte, said yesterday. He said production had not declined as sharply because Chinese imports encouraged the state's companies to make investments in automated machinery, which cut payrolls.
 China sold 700 million pairs of socks to the United States in the first eight months of this year, up from fewer than 12 million four years ago, and sales of jeans, underwear and other labor-intensive items are up as much as tenfold this year compared with 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (93%); RETAILERS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); FABRIC MILLS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TEXTILE MFG (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); APPAREL MFG (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TEXTILE MILLS (78%); SHIPMENTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); CENSUS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); LIVING STANDARDS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



150 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Every State Left Behind

BYLINE: By Diane Ravitch. 
Diane Ravitch, a research professor at New York University and fellow at the Brookings Institution, was on the governing board of the National Assessment of Educational Progress from 1997 to 2004.

 BODY:
WHILE in office, Presidents George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton both called for national academic standards and national tests in the public schools. In both cases, the proposals were rejected by a Congress dominated by the opposing party. The current President Bush, with a friendly Congress in hand, did not pursue that goal because it is contrary to the Republican Party philosophy of localism. Instead he adopted a strategy of ''50 states, 50 standards, 50 tests'' -- and the evidence is growing that this approach has not improved student achievement. Americans must recognize that we need national standards, national tests and a national curriculum.
 The release last month of test results by the National Assessment of Educational Progress, which is part of the Department of Education, vividly demonstrated why varying state standards and tests are inadequate. Almost all states report that, based on their own tests, incredibly large proportions of their students meet high standards. Yet the scores on the federal test (which was given to a representative sample of fourth and eighth graders) were far lower. Basically, the states have embraced low standards and grade inflation. 
 Idaho claims that 90 percent of its fourth-grade students are proficient in mathematics, but on the federal test only 41 percent reached the Education Department's standard of proficiency. Similarly, New York reports that nearly 85 percent of its fourth graders meet state standards in mathematics, yet only 36 percent tested as proficient on the national assessment. North Carolina boasts an impressive 92 percent pass rate on the state test, but only 40 percent meet the federal standard.
 In fourth-grade reading, the gaps between state and national reports are equally large. Georgia claims that 87 percent of its pupils are proficient in reading, but only 26 percent reached that level on the national exam. Alabama says that 83 percent of its students are proficient, but only 22 percent meet the federal standard. 
 The same discrepancies are found in the scores for eighth-grade reading, where Texas reports that 83 percent met the state standard, but the federal test finds that only 26 percent are proficient. Tennessee and North Carolina both claim that 88 percent are proficient readers, whereas 26 percent and 27 percent, respectively, met that mark on the federal test. 
 Why the discrepancies? The states function in a political environment. Educational leaders and elected officials want to assure the public that the schools are doing their jobs and making progress. The federal testing program, administered for the past 15 years by an independent, bipartisan governing board, has never been cowed by the demands of parents, school officials and taxpayers for good news. 
 In the No Child Left Behind law of 2001, Congress left it to each state to develop its own standards and tests, but added that the tests given by National Assessment of Educational Progress should serve as an external gauge of national and state-level achievement. The federal tests are considered the gold standard for good reason: they are the product of a long-term federal investment in research and development. Unlike the state tests, the federal program tries to align its performance standards with international education standards. Many states model their testing on the national program, but still cling to lower standards for fear of alienating the public and embarrassing public officials responsible for education.
 The price of this local watering-down is clear. Our fourth-grade students generally do well when compared with their peers in other nations, but eighth-grade students are only average globally, and 12th graders score near the bottom in comparison with students in many European and Asian nations. Even our students who have taken advanced courses in mathematics and physics perform poorly relative to their peers on international tests.
 Last month, the National Academy of Sciences released a report warning that our nation's ''strategic and economic security,'' as well as our leadership in the development of new technologies, is at risk unless we invest heavily in our human capital; that is, the education of our people. The academy report made clear that many young Americans do not know enough about science, technology or mathematics to understand or contribute to the evolving knowledge-based society. The best way to compete in the global economy, the report maintained, is to ensure that American workers are ''the best educated, the hardest-working, best trained, and most productive in the world.''
 It is fair to say that we will not reach that goal if we accept mediocre performance and label it ''proficient.'' Nor will we reach that goal if we pretend that mathematics taught in Alaska or Iowa is profoundly different from the mathematics taught in Maine or Florida, or for that matter, in Japan and Hungary. 
 Unfortunately, the political calculations that resulted in the No Child Left Behind law adopting a strategy of letting the states choose their own standards and tests remain the reality. In general, Republicans are wary of national standards and a national curriculum, while Democrats are wary of testing in general. Both parties must come to understand that the states are not competing with each other to ratchet up student achievement. Instead, they are maintaining standards that meet the public's comfort level. 
 America will not begin to meet the challenge of developing the potential of our students until we have accurate reporting about their educational progress. We will not have accurate reporting until that function is removed from the constraints of state and local politics. We will be stuck with piecemeal and ineffective reforms until we agree as a nation that education -- not only in reading and mathematics, but also science, history, literature, foreign languages and the arts -- must be our highest domestic priority. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC STANDARDS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE H W BUSH (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



151 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-COMMERCE REPORT; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: The Online Travel Landscape Is Getting Crowded

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
TRAVEL sites like Expedia, Travelocity and Orbitz already have their hands full with airlines and hoteliers -- their ''valued partners'' -- luring consumers away with sites that look more like full-service travel agencies every day. Now, here come Yahoo and AOL, and maybe even Google.
 AOL, Yahoo and others have intensified their focus on the travel category in the past year, beefing up destination features, introducing tools and scooping up new users and marketers in the process. This trend has the online travel agencies bracing for the possibility that the portals could one day evolve into full-fledged competitors. 
''Yahoo is certainly coming closer to that,'' said Henry H. Harteveldt, a travel industry analyst with Forrester Research, based in Cambridge, Mass. Google, meanwhile, recently began offering airfare searches from its search box.
 It does not take a cartographer to notice that the online travel map has shifted significantly. The new measures represent a clear departure from what AOL, Yahoo and many other travel-related editorial sites offered even two years ago when the online advertising market began showing a pulse again after the dot-com crash in 2000. 
 Now that marketers will pay more to reach consumers reading about Caribbean beaches and playing with travel planning tools, the portals are in much less of a hurry to march readers off to an online travel agency and collect a commission for that click.
 The latest evidence came late last month when Yahoo began testing new features in its travel section. The most noteworthy, Mr. Harteveldt said, was Yahoo's Trip Planner tool, which allows people to create, store and print virtual trip folders and post them in a public database for others to view. Among other things, travelers may post articles, hotel and restaurant picks and reviews -- from Yahoo or outside Web sites -- and photos from their own files or from those on Yahoo's online picture-sharing service, Flickr.
 James Slavet, who oversees Yahoo's travel and autos divisions, said the new features had been well received by both users and advertisers. ''The notion is to create a personalized itinerary that's almost like what a really good executive assistant or maybe a travel agent could do for you,'' he said.
 Exactly, said Mr. Harteveldt. ''This is a novel tool, and it's the kind of thing you'd expect online travel agencies to provide you with. It moves Yahoo closer to being the first place consumers go, maybe ahead of Travelocity or any other site.''
 Earlier this year, the portals first added travel-specific search engines to their offerings. Customers of Yahoo can use its FareChase service to search for cheap airline tickets and hotel rooms, usually on the suppliers' sites, while AOL customers may do the same on its PinPointTravel.com site, using technology from Kayak.com. 
 These were fairly aggressive moves from two companies that collect tens of millions of dollars from Travelocity each year -- fees that Travelocity pays to be the exclusive Web travel agency on those sites. 
 Still, AOL and Yahoo executives maintain they have no desire to actually become online travel agents; just looking like one is enough.
 AOL is positioning itself as more of a first-stop travel research destination. According to Jeffrey DeKorte, vice president of AOL Travel, the company has signed a deal with Peter Greenberg, the travel editor of NBC's ''Today'' show, to produce video segments exclusively for AOL. The first clip will air on AOL.com and the AOL service Nov. 14.
 Elsewhere on AOL, users will be able to watch videos of Las Vegas, thanks to a deal struck with Vegas.com last week. That deal, in which Vegas.com will feed editorial content directly to a Las Vegas-specific section of AOL.com and AOL's CityGuides service, represents the first step in AOL's effort to provide more in-depth coverage of top travel destinations, Mr. DeKorte said.
 AOL and Yahoo executives said that increasing advertising revenue, not becoming travel agencies, was the real goal in enriching their travel offerings. Analysts agree that these media companies are smart to keep their fingers far from online retail, with its shrinking margins and increasingly sophisticated sales operations. 
 But these new features alone may be enough to make the online travel agencies uneasy. According to a recent Forrester survey, 14 percent of leisure travelers use portals for planning and research, up from about 9 percent a year ago. That means the online travel agencies, which attract 44 percent of researchers, must either pump more resources into advertising on the portals or bolster their own research and planning tools to combat competition from their online partners, which Internet analysts love to call ''coopetition.''
 Some agencies are already responding. Travelocity's parent company, Sabre Holdings, for example, in April bought IgoUgo.com, which features reviews written by travelers, for an undisclosed price. Travelocity customers now receive a free compilation of such reviews for each destination they book. But the agencies are not exactly panicking, either. Mitch Truwit, chief executive of Orbitz and CheapTickets, both divisions of Cendant, said he was not rushing to push videos to customers before they were ready.
 Steven McArthur, president of the North America Leisure Travel Group at Expedia, said he believed that the recent upgrades from AOL and Yahoo were at least partly a response to Expedia's success in attracting customers without the help of portals. ''It's causing them to invest more heavily to make their offerings more attractive,'' he said. 
 ''Customers are demanding the travel industry do what great merchants do, which is find out what'll help them be comfortable purchasing a product or service,'' Mr. McArthur said. ''In some cases it'll be rich streaming video. In some cases, it'll be more basic stuff.''
 Of course, in strengthening their travel categories, the portals could also be preparing for more competition from Google. According to Diane Clarkson, a travel analyst with Jupiter Research, Google's recent addition of a travel search function has gotten the industry's attention. 
 ''Given their size and reach, they'd be well positioned to move into a more commercial space in travel,'' she said. ''Right now, they're the quiet elephant in the room.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: James Slavet, of Yahoo, said its ''Trip Planner'' tool was well received. (Photo by Isaac Brekken for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (79%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); TRENDS (76%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (75%); AIR FARES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); SEARCH ENGINES (70%); GEOGRAPHY (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); GOOGLE INC (58%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); OWW (NYSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



152 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: More Commuters Are Going Against the Flow, and Out of the City

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Patrick McGeehan contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Manhattan grows on you, like no place else. 
 Every weekday, more than 1.3 million people commute to work in Manhattan -- nearly doubling the borough's population. And while no other city in the country gains more out-of-town commuters than New York -- including those who also come to visit, shop, study and play -- a small but expanding proportion of the city's residents are reverse commuting to work in the suburbs.
For the first time, the census, analyzing figures from 2000, has calculated the daytime population of the nation's cities. Combined with estimates from city planners and regional transportation agencies, the numbers compose a moving picture that evokes the novelist E. L. Doctorow's depiction of Sherman's conquering army as ''a great segmented body moving in contractions and dilationstubular in its being and tentacled to the roads and bridges over which it travels,'' except that the commuters collectively advance only so far and reverse direction at the end of every day. 
 Because New York has so many residents to begin with, though, the daily influx of commuters to all five boroughs from out of town is smaller proportionately than that of many other big cities -- a net gain of about 563,000, or 7 percent. Nearly 92 percent of New York's nearly three million workers live here, more than in any other city. In Detroit and San Jose, fewer than half do.
 In contrast, commuters swell the daytime population by about 72 percent in Washington, 56 percent in White Plains, 54 percent in Hartford, 41 percent in Boston, 28 percent in Seattle and Denver, and 20 percent in Houston and Dallas. In the resort community of Lake Buena Vista, Fla., home to Walt Disney World, the population swells from 16 permanent residents to more than 30,000 during the day, according to the census. In Atlantic City, it increases by 92 percent. 
 Most suburban bedroom communities shrink after sunrise. On Long Island, Levittown loses about one-third of its population. Putnam County's falls by one-fourth. 
 The census suggests that while about 200,000 to 300,000 people leave New York City every day, 800,000 or so others arrive, though urban planners say the influx is understated because only commuters are counted. 
 ''Business visitors, tourists, students -- in the context of New York all those are sizable streams of people,'' said Eric Kober, director of housing, economic and infrastructure planning for the city's Department of City Planning. ''The city has 60,000 hotel rooms, and with an average occupancy of 80 percent, that's 40 to 50,000 people right there.''
 He said the city's daytime population could well be several hundred thousand higher than the census estimates. 
 The number of people who live in New York and work outside the city is relatively small, but appears to be growing. 
 In the 1990's, the number of reverse commuters increased by more than 8 percent, or about 20,000 workers, to about 270,000 (or nearly as many as commute to jobs in the city from New Jersey, or Long Island, and more than those who commute from the northern suburbs, including Connecticut). Reverse commuters accounted for 7.8 percent of the city's work force in 1990 and 8.5 percent in 2000, according to the census. 
 In the Bronx and Queens, about 12 percent of workers have jobs outside the city. About 16 percent of the people who work in Nassau County live in the city, mostly in Queens.
 The ranks of reverse commuters range from those who work for companies that were displaced or left Lower Manhattan after 9/11 to immigrants who find jobs in the suburbs because the demand for retail, service and health care workers exceeds the supply. 
 ''Lower-paid jobs in the suburbs increasingly are being taken by people in the city who can't afford to live in the suburbs,'' said Mr. Kober of the Planning Department.
 Rae D. Rosen, senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said that while the trend is difficult to quantify, ''there are vans that take Korean manicurists to Greenwich, and Chinese cooks and wait staffs to Chinese restaurants in Westchester and Long Island. There are housekeepers and nannies who reverse commute on Metro-North to the northern suburbs.'' 
 Also, Ms. Rosen said, many bankers and, in particular, foreigners prefer to live in the city and commute. ''The traders don't want to live in the suburbs,'' she said. ''They prefer the 24/7 lifestyle of the city.''
 The number of outbound commuters has risen so steadily for so long that two of the region's biggest transit systems, Metro-North Railroad and New Jersey Transit, started charging them more this year.
 When Metro-North raised its fares in March, it eliminated a discount it had long offered to passengers going against the flow during the morning and evening rush. A ticket from Manhattan to White Plains at 8 a.m. now costs as much as one from White Plains to Manhattan.
 The number of people boarding outbound trains at Grand Central Terminal and in the Bronx has more than doubled, to about 12,000 each weekday morning, said Robert C. MacLagger, director of operations planning for Metro-North. 
 ''One of the things we were trying to do was provide mobility for people who live in the Bronx to take good-paying jobs in places like White Plains and up to Greenwich and Stamford,'' Mr. MacLagger said.
 In July, New Jersey Transit reduced the discount on its train and bus tickets for travel during off-peak hours, in part because of the growth of reverse commuting, said Jim Redeker, assistant executive director of the agency.
 ''What we're finding is a significant reverse flow to New Jersey,'' Mr. Redeker said. ''All of the trains coming out of New York heading down to Trenton are full.'' 
 Aside from the disruptions after 9/11, long-term transportation figures appear to confirm the trend. 
 ''There is definitely an increase in reverse commuting,'' said William Wheeler, director of special project development and planning for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. ''It's still a small percentage of total customers but it grows each year.'' 
 He said reverse commuting during the morning rush accounts for only about 10 percent of commuters, but has about doubled on the Long Island Rail Road, to 10,000, since the mid-90's. As a result, the authority has increased track capacity for more outbound service between Bronxville and Crestwood in Westchester and will do so between Bellerose and Hicksville on Long Island. 
 The Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority estimates that since 2000, the number of vehicles leaving Manhattan has increased slightly, by one or two percentage points, as a proportion of all vehicles during the morning rush. 
 The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey says that while the number of morning rush commuters on PATH trains has declined since 2001, the number of reverse commuters has remained about the same. 
 Alexis Perrotta, senior policy analyst at the Regional Plan Association, a nonpartisan research group, attributed the trend, in part, to official policy. Some suburban governments engage in ''fiscal zoning,'' she said, encouraging commercial development to generate property tax revenue while discouraging new housing that would require more schools and other costly public services.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chad Walker, with coffee cup, waiting at 125th Street for a train to White Plains. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION SIZE (90%); CENSUS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRENDS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (68%) Labor; Commuting; Suburbs; Urban Areas; Labor; Urban Areas ; Social Conditions and Trends; Life Styles

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%) Census Bureau

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (53%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (53%)

PERSON: Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Detroit (Mich); San Jose (Calif); Washington (DC); Houston (Tex); Denver (Colo); Boston (Mass); New York City

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



153 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1650 words

HEADLINE: Belichick: Inquiring Mastermind Wants to Know

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
The pads of paper are like little cobblestones that form the path to one of the greatest football minds of his day. New England Patriots Coach Bill Belichick always has those notebooks with him, waiting for something as mundane as a practice schedule or as complex as an offensive system to be revealed, to spark his interest and demand to be remembered. 
 When New England plays host to the Indianapolis Colts tonight, the game will be viewed by many as a chess match between the most cerebral quarterback in the N.F.L., Peyton Manning, and the 53-year-old coaching mastermind whose game plans have launched the Patriots to three Super Bowl titles in the past four seasons.
But even as Belichick flourishes at the highest level of his profession, he is engaged in the equivalent of a postgraduate education program, an independent study tour that has taken him from Annapolis, Md., to Gainesville, Fla., from a cot in Ted Marchibroda's hotel room to Jimmy Johnson's boat. 
 At each stop, usually in the off-season and sometimes involving intensive film study, Belichick has picked the brain of his host, gleaning bits of wisdom about everything from Navy's run offense to Johnson's philosophies on drafting and contract negotiations.
 Such sessions are common among college coaches, who freely share information about their schemes with coaches whose teams are not on their schedule. 
 Bear Bryant, the legendary Alabama coach, went to Texas one spring to study the wishbone. Current college coaches frequently visit Virginia Tech to learn some of Frank Beamer's special-teams techniques. But Belichick's forays are unusual in the N.F.L.; limited time in the off-season and heightened paranoia result in most coaches avoiding anything more than the most informal sharing of information. 
 ''He's a perfect example of what we've let slip away in the image of a coach -- the job is a teaching job,'' said Giants General Manager Ernie Accorsi, who was the general manager of the Cleveland Browns when Belichick became the head coach there in 1991. ''Bill certainly has a great deal of self-confidence, but he's got the humility to know that he can always learn from somebody that's successful. To me, the smarter you are, the more you want to learn.''
 Belichick is the son of a longtime coach and scout. His father, Steve, who worked at the Naval Academy for years, taught him how to break down film when Belichick was 9 years old. But in the mid-1970's, when he was earning just $25 a week as a special assistant to the Colts, the outside tutorials began in earnest. 
 Marchibroda, head coach of the Baltimore Colts at the time, made his headquarters a Howard Johnson hotel near Baltimore-Washington airport. Belichick was not making enough money to rent an apartment, so Marchibroda arranged for a cot to be placed in his room. The young man with an economics degree from Wesleyan and the veteran coach would talk deep into the night about football. The gridiron equivalent of a gym rat was born. 
 ''It's just an exchange of information with somebody that you have common ground with,'' Belichick said in an interview during training camp. ''You talk about things that are successful, and sometimes that has an application to what you're doing.''
 When Belichick took his first job as a head coach in Cleveland, he made an unusual request when he and his staff members went to the scouting combine in Indianapolis. Each assistant was assigned three other teams; they were to ask members of those coaching staffs what their practice routines were. The point was to see if anybody else had good ideas about how to run practices. 
 Another summer, Belichick put a pile of books on a table in a meeting room. Each book had something to do with sports or great athletes. Belichick and his father have enormous libraries of football and sports books, about 500 volumes each, some historical, some technical. He assigned two books to each of his coaches, and when they returned to work for the start of training camp, he asked them what they had gotten out of their summer reading. Book reports for the shoulder-pad set. 
 ''He said, 'I think you can learn from others,' '' said Pat Hill, who was a member of Belichick's staff in Cleveland. He is now in his ninth season as head coach at Fresno State.
 He added: ''Bill is a very good listener. He wanted your opinions. He didn't want yes guys. There's a big difference between listening for what you want to hear and listening to learn. When he listens, he has a reason for the questions.''
 The questions have helped Belichick evolve -- from the failed Cleveland coach who seemed so inept that other executives thought Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the Patriots, was crazy to hire him. 
 Even in recent years, as Belichick and the Patriots have established a dynasty and a franchise model that is the envy of the N.F.L., he has continued to seek advice. Just weeks after the Patriots beat the Carolina Panthers for their second Super Bowl title, Belichick was in Baton Rouge, La. There, he talked defense with Nick Saban, his former defensive coordinator in Cleveland, who was the coach at Louisiana State at the time. Saban now coaches the Miami Dolphins. 
 Belichick has known Johnson, a two-time Super Bowl winner in Dallas and now an analyst for ''Fox N.F.L. Sunday,'' since the two made some trades while Belichick was in Cleveland and Johnson was in Dallas. They even spent a part of a Kentucky Derby day standing along the rail at Churchill Downs, talking football.
 Three years ago, Belichick went to the Florida Keys to visit Johnson. They fished. They drank beer. They talked about the draft. 
 ''He was concerned about having too many picks,'' Johnson said in a recent interview. ''I told him, 'Picks are like money: you can't have too much.' On draft day, teams will want to trade future picks for one of your picks. If you're not going to use the pick and you don't want to draft a player, trade it for a future pick. He did that year; he ended up getting a first- and second-round pick.''
 That stockpiling of draft picks, even as the Patriots were winning, is the cornerstone of the Patriots' continuity. And it allowed Belichick, before the 2004 draft, to trade a second-round pick for running back Corey Dillon. He then used a first-round pick to select defensive tackle Vince Wilfork.
 But what most impressed Johnson was Belichick's preparation for their conversation. Belichick remembered some of Johnson's drafts with Dallas better than he did. He knew that one year Johnson had drafted three offensive linemen; none of them made the Cowboys' roster, but all of them landed with other teams. 
 Two years ago, Belichick returned to South Florida and to Johnson's boat. This time their talk centered on contracts. Cornerback Ty Law wanted a new one and was threatening to hold out. 
 ''I said: 'You've got to hard-line it. Once you start redoing it, you'll have everybody on your team in your office.' '' Johnson recalled. ''I said: 'Don't think everybody is going to be happy. But if you hold your line on one, it will prevent three or four problems down the road.' ''
 That remains the Patriots' guiding economic philosophy. Quarterback Tom Brady and others have accepted what many believe to be below-market deals to stay in New England. 
 Belichick did not visit during this off-season, but Jacksonville Coach Jack Del Rio called Johnson and said he had heard about Belichick's visits and wanted in.
 Two years ago, Belichick spent two days watching film of the running game at Navy. He had an appreciation for how a program with limited resources could produce what he considers one of the best running games in college football. 
 ''When he told me he wanted to come, I laughed and said, 'Yeah, I can see Tom Brady running the option,' '' Navy Coach Paul Johnson said. ''I think he was looking for things we do off the zone play, or blocking schemes that he could incorporate into his system. The guy is a brilliant guy. Who knows what he was looking for? I think he's intrigued with the option game.''
 Perhaps that explains what Belichick and his quarterbacks coach, Josh McDaniels, were doing in Gainesville during the off-season. Belichick met with Florida Coach Urban Meyer while scouting his players, and they spoke about Meyer's spread-option offense. It was highly successful in Meyer's two seasons at Utah and is all the rage in college football.
 Meyer and his offensive coordinator, Dan Mullen, were hosts to dozens of high school and college coaches eager to learn the high-scoring system. The only N.F.L. coaches to visit were from the Patriots. 
 Mullen and McDaniels spent hours watching tape and drawing plays on a board. Of particular interest, Mullen said, was the intermediate passing game with an empty backfield. They discussed different pass routes, especially on plays using five wide receivers and plays that have an option route. 
 ''I've actually seen them do some of the stuff we talked about,'' Mullen said. ''You're not designing the option to get Tom Brady to run the ball. You're designing the option to cause issues for a defense, to get him to read the defense and then pitch it to another guy. Because he's a great decision maker, he could probably run the option.''
 Belichick said: ''It's not like we're going to do a wholesale change to that system. Are there plays we might use? Sure.''
 Accorsi, the Giants general manager, paraphrased a quotation from Knute Rockne, saying: ''Amos Alonzo Stagg invented everything there is in football. The rest of us are just recycling it.''
 It is fitting then that Belichick now has his spot in the coaching pantheon with Rockne and Stagg. 
 ''Your ego can't be so big that you're not going to borrow from other people,'' Johnson, the Navy coach, said. ''The best coaches are a move or two ahead of the other guys. I think that's the kind of guy he is.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Coach Bill Belichick and his 4-3 Patriots take on unbeaten Indianapolis tonight. The Colts' Peyton Manning is 0-7 in games at New England. (Photo by Michael Dwyer/Associated Press)(pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); BOARD GAMES (76%); ATHLETES (73%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (67%) Football; Coaches and Managers

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (94%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%) New England Patriots; Indianapolis Colts

PERSON: Judy Battista; Bill Belichick

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (87%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (76%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (67%) NORTHEAST USA (95%); INDIANA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (76%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (74%); OHIO, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



154 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 520 words

PERSON: Chester Cooper

HEADLINE: Chester Cooper, 88, a Player In Diplomacy for 2 Decades 

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Chester L. Cooper, a retired United States diplomat who in the 1950's and 60's was a backstage player in many of the most critical negotiations of the cold war, died on Oct. 30 in Washington. He was 88. 
 During his years in public service, Mr. Cooper often worked, as he later wrote, ''as deputy or special assistant to, of or for somebody or something.'' He held senior positions with the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Security Council, the State Department and other agencies.
This year, he published a memoir, ''In the Shadows of History: 50 Years Behind the Scenes of Cold War Diplomacy'' (Prometheus Books), in which he recounted his association with a constellation of historic figures that included John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, Nikita S. Khrushchev and Ho Chi Minh.
 An authority on Asia, Mr. Cooper was involved with United States policy on Vietnam, starting with his participation in the Geneva Conference on Indochina in 1954. In the late 1960's, as a deputy to W. Averell Harriman, who was first an ambassador at large and later the chief American negotiator at the Paris peace talks, Mr. Cooper undertook a series of missions in pursuit of a negotiated settlement of the Vietnam War.
 Mr. Cooper was also closely involved in the Suez crisis of 1956, in which Israel, Britain and France fought a brief war with Egypt over the waterway, becoming the American emissary in the delicate talks with Britain. In 1962, at the time of the Cuban missile crisis, he was President Kennedy's envoy to London to brief Prime Minister Harold Macmillan. 
 Mr. Cooper's other books include ''The Lion's Last Roar: Suez, 1956'' (Harper & Row, 1978) and ''The Lost Crusade: America in Vietnam'' (Dodd, Mead, 1970).
 Reviewing ''The Lost Crusade'' in The New York Times Book Review, Ronald Steel wrote, ''Chester Cooper was there when most of it happened, and even though he pulls a few punches, he has given us the most revealing and the most important inside story of the war that we have yet had, or are likely to get for a long time.''
 Chester Lawrence Cooper was born in Boston on Jan. 13, 1917. He earned a bachelor's degree from New York University in 1939, a master's degree from N.Y.U. in 1941 and, in 1960, a Ph.D. in economics from American University. In World War II, he served in China with the Office of Strategic Services, the precursor of the C.I.A. 
 After leaving the federal government in the late 1960's, Mr. Cooper was a director of the Institute for Defense Analysis and later a fellow of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. More recently, he directed the Washington office of the Institute for Energy Analysis, a policy group. In 2001, Mr. Cooper retired as director of international programs at the Battelle Memorial Institute at the University of Maryland, where he worked on environmental policy issues. 
 Mr. Cooper's wife of 61 years, the former Orah Pomerance, an economist with the C.I.A., died in 2002. He is survived by their two daughters, Susan Cooper of Washington and Joan Gould of London; a brother, Mitchell, of Chevy Chase, Md.; and three grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); WORLD WAR II (77%); VIETNAM WAR (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (70%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (57%) Margalit Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (75%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (91%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EGYPT (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (75%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2005



155 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Itineraries; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Time to Open the Kabul Branch?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. LUONGO

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
On the first day of her first business trip to Kabul, in January 2003, Virginia Sheffield found her car surrounded by ''three very excited Afghans with guns.'' It was the sort of incident that plays to foreign fears of Afghanistan as a lawless, violent place that is best avoided by Western capitalists. 
 But contrary to that popular perception, Ms. Sheffield and other corporate executives say, Afghanistan is the place to be these days. Its economy is booming, opening up huge opportunities for foreign businesses small and large, they say, and the risk that looms so large in the American imagination of falling prey to thugs or terrorists is not only exaggerated, it is diminishing. 
 ''This mentality that it's very risky is not the reality,'' Ms. Sheffield said.
 Her encounter with the three men with guns took place as she and her husband were entering the grounds of the Presidential Palace to meet with President Hamid Karzai. Just as they drove past a sign warning that no photography was allowed, her husband fumbled with his camera, setting off the flash and prompting the rush of guards to their car. ''I almost got arrested,'' she said, but after she showed them the photo her husband had inadvertently taken of his feet, they let the couple go through.
 Since then, she says, she has spent more time in Afghanistan than in the United States, usually for three-month stints, to run Sheffield Advisors, a consulting firm for companies doing business in Afghanistan, and to help oversee International Business Services-Afghanistan, which provides temporary office space and other support to newly arrived companies. 
 In fact, Ms. Sheffield, who is from Arlington, Va., jokes that she has become so used to the life of an expatriate in Afghanistan that she sometimes has trouble remembering ''who my husband of 34 years is.'' Despite an upsurge in violence around the country -- more American soldiers have been killed in 2005 than at any time since the invasion to oust the Taliban and its aftermath -- Kabul has been largely spared, and Ms. Sheffield says she feels safe.
 Shaun Brogan, rooms manager at the $25 million, 177-room Kabul Serena Hotel that is scheduled to open this month in downtown Kabul, minimizes the risk of terrorist attack and says misplaced trepidation about it is bad for business. 
 In mid-2004, he says, he saw rockets exploding over the city and ''heard the bangs, but it wasn't really scary.'' Foreigners tend to think rockets go off every day, he said, while they are in fact quite rare. But he said that perception makes it hard to recruit employees from abroad. 
 In addition, he said, it is difficult to get international corporations to send people in to sell their products or to help train local employees. ''It's very frustrating when you're here trying to set up your business,'' Mr. Brogan said. ''That's a psychological barrier that things are scary, making them not invest.'' 
 To be sure, the threat of violence remains, but foreign businesspeople face up to it stoically, if not casually. ''We have had plenty of close calls, rocket attacks in Kandahar which are very close to home,'' said Ben Preston, 27, manager of the Kabul office of DHL Worldwide Express, the delivery service owned by Deutsche Post of Germany.
 Mr. Preston said he was doing some business inside Standard Chartered, the first postwar international bank in Kabul, the day before Afghan authorities discovered and removed a bomb known as a Vbied, or vehicle-borne improvised explosive device, in a car out front. 
 Karim Khoja, the chief executive of Roshan, Afghanistan's largest cellular company, says he has witnessed the transformation of air transport from scary to reliable. He recalled the time some of his employees were on an Ariana plane that overshot the Kabul airport runway and barreled into an open field riddled with mines. ''We were very lucky that no one got killed that day,'' he said.
 But such incidents pretty much ended after ''Ariana brought the Germans in'' to train its employees, Mr. Khoja said, with happy results for business travelers. ''When you think of investment in a country, what does a businessman want to do?'' he asked. ''He wants to get on a plane. Kabul has progressed in that respect.'' 
 In fact, it is more the chaos of everyday life -- the pell-mell pace of construction everywhere, the erratic traffic, the worsening pollution, the unreliability of the work force -- that bothers many foreign businesspeople more than the perceived security threats do. Ms. Sheffield, the American consultant, complains that despite soaring real estate prices, too often in the older buildings ''you don't have power; you don't have air-conditioning; you don't have elevators.'' 
 Mr. Khoja tries to see the bright side of the endless traffic jams, calling them a ''sign of prosperity,'' but he laments the worsening air pollution they produce. But Mr. Preston, the DHL manager, said the broader problem was the absence of enforceable regulations that enabled anyone who could get behind the wheel of a vehicle to get a driver's license. 
 That lack of oversight can creep into other areas, as well.
 ''It's desperate,'' Mr. Preston said. ''What is there in terms of contract law, or any kind of law?'' He said he had met people who said they were painters, but had no skill in the trade. Such problems delayed a construction project for DHL in Kandahar, in the country's south, he said. 
 Noor Delawari, director of Afghanistan's central bank, acknowledged the regulatory confusion but said the economy was booming in spite of it, expanding at a projected 14 percent this year, up from 10.6 percent in 2004. Much of the expansion is being fueled by construction as the country rebuilds after nearly three decades of war.
 Aside from the improving security picture, it is the bustle that is feeding the upbeat attitude of foreign business executives. Ms. Sheffield said that it was once possible to show visitors devastation from the wars. ''Not any more,'' she said. ''It's disappearing fast.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Kabul International Airport. The economy is booming, but a lack of codified laws can be frustrating for corporate executives. (Photo by Michael T. Luongo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); TALIBAN (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TERRORISM (74%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); ARMED FORCES (61%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); WAR & CONFLICT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS SERVICES INC (54%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



156 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Drop in Auto Sales Helps Cut Borrowing

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7 

 BODY:
Credit card borrowing and other kinds of consumer debt declined for the first time in 10 months in September, reflecting in large part sagging auto sales. 
 The Federal Reserve reported on Monday that total borrowing fell at an annual pace of $59.4 million in September after having posted markedly larger increases of $7.91 billion in August, $9.96 billion in July and $15.04 billion in June.
 Those three months had been marked by big gains in auto loans as consumers responded to attractive sales incentives. Auto sales faltered in September as many of the incentives ended and sales of sport utility vehicles dropped sharply with still higher gasoline prices. 
 The Fed report showed that consumer credit declined in September at an annual pace of 0.03 percent after having risen at a 4.4 percent pace in August. It was the first decline since a drop of 0.9 percent in November 2004. 
 Credit cards and other types of revolving debt showed a 4.7 percent pace of increase in September, the biggest gain in three months. Analysts said the increase reflected in part a heavier use of credit cards to pay for gasoline. 
 The modest decline over all left total consumer credit at $2.16 trillion in September, close to a record high. 
 The Fed's report did not includes loans like mortgages that are secured by real estate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); CONSUMER LENDING (91%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%) Credit; Consumer Credit; Automobiles; Sales; Credit and Money Cards; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



157 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Fliers Already Peg 2005 As the Year of Gritted Teeth

BYLINE: By Joe Sharkey

 BODY:
FREQUENT fliers' reviews of air travel in 2005 are in. They are not good.
 ''Would rather take a donkey,'' one says.
'' 'Good service' translates to, 'We won't bother you if you don't bother us,' '' another says.
 ''Need air marshals to protect passengers from crew,'' says another. 
 These are among the comments in a new assessment of airline travel by Zagat Survey, the company best known for consumer reviews of restaurants and hotels. 
 Every business traveler knows that air service has deteriorated as major airlines have struggled for survival against low-cost competition and, in the last year, the soaring price of fuel. But even the experts say they're surprised at the virulence of dissatisfaction this year.
 ''I had expected it would be bad, but not this bad,'' Tim Zagat, the co-founder and chief executive of Zagat Survey, said yesterday. ''Consumers are really fed up by the way they're being treated, particularly by the major airlines.'' He added. ''One of the reasons JetBlue does so well is that they seem to be reasonably customer-friendly.''
 The survey -- the first air-travel review by Zagat since 2001 -- is based on responses from more than 5,000 frequent fliers and travel-industry professionals assessing service on 22 domestic and 55 international airlines.
 You can read the full survey at www.Zagat.com. 
 Basically, it says that passengers think the major domestic airlines are ''a mess,'' as a Zagat summary puts it. The big complaints are delays and cancellations, cramped seating, and overall poor in-flight service. 
 Only 2 percent of passengers complained about airline food, but that's probably because in-flight meals in coach class have pretty much gone the way of stewardesses in white gloves. ''Airline food is an oxymoron,'' as one respondent put it.
 The only major airline to rank in the top 10 was Continental Airlines, which came in ninth and which, incidentally, is the only airline still serving traditional in-flight meals in coach. Across the board, foreign carriers were rated far more favorably than domestic ones, especially for business-class and first-class service.
 I've recently been focusing on transcontinental premium service. But the stinging comments in the Zagat Survey are a reminder that most business travelers fly domestic coach, and for many of these frequent fliers, 2005 has been a true annus horribilis.
 Take William A. Allen III, 57, a management consultant who is typically on the road five days a week. This year has been by far the most arduous in his 27 consecutive years of steady business travel, he said in a phone interview.
 ''I can't get off the road. I'm stuck. I love my work, but it's become a war zone out here, and it's got markedly worse in the last year,'' he said, singling out airlines -- not hotels -- as the problem.
 The biggest issues he sees: delays and route cutbacks, closely followed by unfriendly and sometimes surly service. Mr. Allen said he understood the plight of many airline employees who have had their salaries cut and their career paths blocked. But that's not the fault of passengers, he said.
 ''In general nobody cares, not at any level,'' he said. ''This is imbued into the entire culture of the airline business.'' Airline employees, whether on the phone, at the gate or in flight, are too often unpleasant, he said. In many cases, ''it comes across clearly that you're a nuisance to them,'' he said.
 Mr. Allen, who is married with two young children, usually leaves his Raleigh, N.C., home Sunday afternoons and returns ''between 5 and 8 p.m.'' Fridays, he said. His current client work requires him to spend the week in Columbus, Ohio.
 ''It's only 361 miles from Raleigh to Columbus,'' he said. ''I'm leaving home at 3 in the afternoon on Sunday and getting to Columbus at 11:15 or 11:30 at night because the flight is never on time. So I'm in transit for over eight and a half hours. I could almost drive it in that time. Plus the fare on the route has nearly doubled in a year.'' 
 He fondly remembers the days when life on the road was marked by ''real conviviality'' among business travelers on planes and at airports, he added. Now people -- himself included -- ''are folded into themselves'' and isolated with earphones, he said. ''People generally don't talk to each other anymore on the road. We avoid each other because we're all gritting our teeth.''
 So that's the way it looks from the domestic business-travel trenches. Expectations have definitely been lowered as the year nears a close. 
 As Mr. Zagat put it, ''Today, most people consider just getting there to be the only remaining value in air travel.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); MARKETING SURVEYS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); AVIATION SECURITY (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); RANKINGS (70%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%) Airlines and Airplanes; Reviews; Customer Relations; Consumer Behavior; Delays (Transportation) ; Public Opinion; United States Economy; Foreign Investments

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (90%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Zagat Survey; Sheffield Advisors; International Business Services-Afhghanistan

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (90%); UAL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%)

PERSON: Tim Zagat; Joe Sharkey; Virginia Sheffield; Michael T Luongo

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (74%) AFGHANISTAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) Afghanistan; Kabul (Afghanistan); Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



158 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: In Hong Kong, a Jail Sentence for Online File-Sharing

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Nov. 7 

 BODY:
A Hong Kong judge sentenced a 38-year-old unemployed man to three months in jail Monday for using an Internet file-sharing system to make three Hollywood movies available for others to download free.
 The jail sentence was the first ever meted out against a person copying movies using the BitTorrent file-sharing technology, industry and government officials said. BitTorrent, which is made to handle very large files, cuts the time it takes to download movies and TV shows from hours to minutes.
The sentence was also the latest in a series of legal victories for the movie and recording industries in their fight against the sharing of copyrighted material on the Internet. 
 Colin Mackintosh of the Hong Kong Magistrates' Court in the Tuen Mun district sentenced Chan Nai-ming to jail for installing three movies -- ''Daredevil,'' ''Red Planet'' and ''Miss Congeniality'' -- on his computer in a format that allowed others to copy them, and then announcing on Internet newsgroups that the movies were available.
 Mr. Chan, who went by the name ''Big Crook'' on the Internet, did not charge for the copies.
 Paul Francis, Mr. Chan's lawyer, said his client would appeal both his conviction and the sentence, adding that that Mr. Chan had been released on $645 in bail. ''Our view is that the sentence was excessive in all circumstances,'' Mr. Francis said.
 Margaret Fu, a spokeswoman here for the Motion Picture Association, the international arm of the Motion Picture Association of America, noted that before Monday's sentencing of Mr. Chan, a court in Sweden had imposed civil penalties, but no jail time, on an Internet user there for distributing movies using a different Internet file-sharing system.
 Hong Kong has been trying hard to shed its role as a center for movie piracy and to develop an image as a city where intellectual property rights are protected. Studios often release movies here weeks after they do so in the United States or Europe, because illegal copies crop up so quickly once movies are shown.
 Mr. Chan's jail sentence, the latest chapter in a case that began in January, follows several other recent victories for the movie and recording industries. The United States Supreme Court decided on June 27 that Web sites like Grokster could be held responsible for what users of its file-sharing service did with the material they downloaded, and on Monday the company said it would shut the service. Courts in Taiwan and Australia sided with the movie and recording industries in September in related file-sharing cases.
 Hong Kong officials said they welcomed Mr. Chan's conviction.
 ''We believe the court has reached the most appropriate verdict based on the circumstances of the case,'' said Tam Yiu-keung, the head of the intellectual property investigation bureau at Hong Kong's customs department.
 A spokesman for the Hong Kong Bureau of Commerce, Industry and Technology, a government agency, said that the verdict would have a deterrent effect. ''We urge young people to respect intellectual property rights and abide by the law,'' the spokesman said.
 After Mr. Chan's conviction on Oct. 24, John Tsang, Hong Kong's secretary of commerce, industry and technology, said that the posting of copyrighted materials from Hong Kong on BitTorrent files had dropped by 80 percent since the heavily publicized arrest of Mr. Chan in January.
 The energy with which Mr. Chan has been investigated and prosecuted has underlined the government's determination to discourage the copying of files on the Internet. In summarizing the evidence, Magistrate Mackintosh described how a Hong Kong customs official had downloaded a copy of each movie, traced them to an Internet address in Hong Kong and then arranged a raid.
 A team of customs officers arrived with a warrant at Mr. Chan's home at 7 a.m. on Jan. 12. As his wife left for work, they asked her to let them in. They found Mr. Chan at his computer.
 According to the prosecution, Mr. Chan told one of the officers that he was ''Big Crook,'' and was solely responsible for uploading the files. The officer took notes on the conversation and Mr. Chan signed the notes.
 But Mr. Chan later testified that he had signed the notes believing the officers would then allow his wife to go to work, and that he would not get into trouble. Magistrate Mackintosh did not accept this argument and admitted the notes as evidence.
 Mr. Francis argued during the trial that Mr. Chan's actions did not meet the legal definition of distributing a copyrighted work, because Mr. Chan had only saved the movies on his computer and connected the computer to the Internet in a way that allowed others to actually download the movie. But the judge dismissed this argument, saying that an ordinary definition of distribution would encompass what Mr. Chan did.
 The judge also accepted the prosecution's argument that Mr. Chan had deprived studios of part of the revenues they were due from their copyrights on the movies. The customs officers determined that 30 to 40 people had downloaded each of the movies that Mr. Chan made available, and these people might otherwise have rented or purchased the movies, the judge concluded.
 ''The message is one that is best heeded by Internet pirates the world over, namely that you can and will be found, prosecuted and punished for the theft of intellectual property,'' said Dan Glickman, chief executive of the Motion Picture Association of America.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Chan Nai-ming stored three Hollywood movies on his computer and let others download them at no charge. (Photo by Agence France-Press--Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (93%); JAIL SENTENCING (92%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); FILM (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); JUDGES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (77%); LAWYERS (75%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



159 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Is There a Doctrine in the House?

BYLINE: By Richard N. Haass. 
Richard N. Haass, the director of policy planning at the State Department from 2001 to 2003, is the president of the Council on Foreign Relations and the author of ''The Opportunity: America's Moment to Alter History's Course.''

 BODY:
WHAT policy should the United States adopt toward China's rise? How should we greet India's emergence, Japan's new assertiveness, Europe's drift or the possible decline of Russia? How can the United States reduce terrorism, promote trade, stop nuclear proliferation and increase freedom?
 These are among the toughest questions on the foreign policy agenda, and right now Washington is trying to answer them without a compass. Containment, the doctrine of resisting Soviet and communist expansion, survived some four decades of challenge, but could not survive its own success. What we need is a foreign policy for both the post-cold-war and the post-9/11 world. 
That a guiding principle is needed cannot be doubted. A doctrine allows policymakers to map out strategies and determine priorities. Those strategies and priorities in turn guide decisions of long-term importance, like where to invest the country's intelligence and diplomatic assets, as well as how to deploy its military forces and channel its assistance programs. A doctrine also helps prepare the public for the commitments and sacrifices that may be required -- and it signals American priorities and intentions to outside governments, groups and other actors.
 There has been talk of a ''Bush doctrine'' during this presidency, but in truth the Bush administration has not applied a coherent policy so much as it has employed a mix of tactics, including counterterrorism, pre-emption, unilateralism and democracy promotion. 
 Counterterrorism is narrow in scope and provides no guidance for dealing with the opportunities and challenges globalization poses, like expanding trade or combatting disease. Pre-emption (or prevention, to be more precise) is relevant to an even narrower set of circumstances and cannot be a regular feature of policy given the uncertainty and controversy it entails. Unilateralism is not viable because most of today's pressing problems are global ones that cannot be met by the United States alone, given the limits of its power.
 Democracy promotion is a more serious proposition, but to make it a doctrine would be neither desirable nor practical. Too many problems, including some that threaten the lives of millions, will not be solved by the emergence of new democracies. Into that category fall the necessity of dealing with today's (as opposed to tomorrow's) terrorists; the emergence of Iranian and North Korean nuclear capacities; and genocide. 
 Promoting democracy is one American foreign policy goal, and rightly so, but when it comes to relations with China, Egypt, Russia or Saudi Arabia, other national security interests must bear equal or greater weight. Moreover, promoting democracy is too difficult to be a truly viable doctrine. In Iraq, where the United States used military force to oust a regime and occupy a country, the costs have been too high and the results too uneven to furnish any kind of model for future operations. 
 What, then, is the appropriate foreign policy doctrine for the United States? I would suggest ''integration.'' Based on a shared approach to common challenges, it means that we cooperate with other world powers to build effective international arrangements and to take collective actions. And those relationships would be expanded to include other countries, organizations and peoples, so that they too can come to enjoy the benefits of physical security, economic opportunity and political freedom. Finally, we should offer rogue states the advantages of integration into the global economy in exchange for fundamentally changing their ways. 
 Containment was the right doctrine for the cold war. But for the current era, we must find a way to bring others in, not keep them out. Integration meets that criterion, along with all the others required of a new doctrine. It reflects existing international realities, addresses American national security challenges, sets forth ambitious but achievable objectives and provides ''first order'' guidance that policymakers can consistently apply. It is also domestically supportable.
 By adopting integration as United States doctrine, policymakers would acknowledge and adapt to a new reality -- namely, the fact that the principal threat to American security and prosperity does not come from a great-power rival, because the gap in abilities is too large and the chance of conflict too remote. Rather, our greatest menace stems from what can best be described as the dark dimension of globalization, which includes terrorism, nuclear proliferation, infectious disease, protectionism and global climate change. 
 What would a foreign policy guided by integration look like? The United States would forge partnerships with China and Russia, accept India's nuclear status, welcome a more assertive Japan, and encourage a more capable and active Europe. We would jettison hopes for rapid changes of regime in Iran and North Korea. Instead we'd offer those countries security guarantees and substantial political and economic incentives (along with access to nuclear power but not control of nuclear fuel) in exchange for abandoning their nuclear weapons programs.
 We would propose to extend the World Trade Organization to cover virtually all aspects of manufacturing and services, and we'd reduce or eliminate tariffs, quotas and subsidies. The United States would sponsor worldwide efforts to counter AIDS and avian flu, as well as to bring about a post-Kyoto arrangement to slow global climate change. We would spearhead a diplomatic offensive in support of the principle that governments conducting or supporting either genocide or terrorism forfeit their sovereign rights.
 If much of this looks familiar, that's because it is. The Bush administration is clearly moving in this direction. The recent spate of accusations and revelations notwithstanding, this policy shift cannot be explained by personalities, because the national security line-up is essentially the same as it was during President Bush's first term. Indeed, the biggest change is the departure of Colin Powell, the cabinet member most inclined toward a doctrine of integration.
 No, what accounts for the changed approach to the world is reality. Iraq has stretched the United States military to the breaking point, cost hundreds of billions of dollars, alienated would-be partners around the world (as evidenced in Argentina last week), and curtailed the enthusiasm of the American people for a missionary foreign policy. 
 It is hard to escape the paradox: Iraq, a classic war of choice, has constrained the administration's choices in its second term. Choices are further constrained by tax cuts, extravagant spending and the absence of a policy to reduce American dependency on imported oil. The result is that the United States is moving -- haltingly and reluctantly, but inexorably -- toward a more pragmatic and multilateral foreign policy appropriate to the era in which we live.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Adam Palmer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); JAPAN (92%); INDIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



160 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: REBUILDING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2044 words

HEADLINE: New Orleans Is Still Grappling With the Basics of Rebuilding

BYLINE: This article was reported by Adam Nossiter, Gary Rivlin, John Schwartz, Eric Lipton and Jennifer Steinhauer and was written by Ms. Steinhauer.; Adam Nossiter and Gary Rivlin reported from New Orleans for this article, Eric Lipton from Washington, and John Schwartz and Jennifer Steinhauer from New York.

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 7 

 BODY:
Something once unimaginable has begun to happen here: the United Parcel Service is delivering again downtown. At Langenstein's grocery, celery and pork chops are moving out the door, and revelers spill out of the Magazine Street bars on Friday nights.
 But just a mile away, workers are struggling to restore some flood protection to the city, which would barely stay dry in even a modest tropical storm. Tens of thousands of homeowners, facing six-figure repair bills for their rotting houses, are unlikely to get more than a fraction of that from the government. As phones ring in empty offices, even the shrimp business can barely find customers, and the economy remains comatose.
More than two months after Hurricane Katrina incapacitated this peerless, sultry American city, New Orleans has shaken off the shock of its collapse and has slowly begun to draw breath again. But as it moves from recovery into the more crucial rebuilding phase, it is only beginning to grapple with the elemental questions that will shape its future, many of which have arisen at the special session of the Louisiana State Legislature that began Sunday night. 
 Will New Orleans be granted a vastly strengthened flood protection system -- at a cost of up to $20 billion -- or will it be told to allow low-lying residential neighborhoods to return to marshland? Will the city have to take control of thousands of houses to restore them -- at a cost that no one has calculated -- or will it have to tell thousands of evacuated residents not to return? 
 Every major decision seems to rely on another decision that has to be made first, and no one has stepped in to announce what the city will do and break the cycle of uncertainty. Many residents and business owners will not return and invest without an assurance of flood protection, for example. But workers who could rebuild the levees and much of the rest of the city are hampered by the lack of housing.
 ''We can't ask somebody to work for us if they have nowhere to live,'' said Robert Boh, president of Boh Brothers, a New Orleans construction company.
 And construction of new houses, or the rebuilding of the old damaged ones, has been stymied by the high cost, the empty treasury of local government, and the debate over how to maintain the city's political and demographic base.
 While some experts have warned that it makes little economic or environmental sense to rebuild low-lying areas like the Lower Ninth Ward, Mayor C. Ray Nagin and many other city officials have stated emphatically that the neighborhood will be rebuilt and protected, whatever the cost.
 Developers have not yet received the kind of tax incentives that Washington provided to New York after Sept. 11, and local officials are preparing for the loss of up to half the city's 115,000 small businesses.
 In rebuilding, timing and proportion are everything. Unlike New York officials, who seized their moment of national sympathy to nail down $20 billion in specific appropriations from Congress after Sept. 11, Louisiana delegates asked for a hefty $200 billion. After that amount was shot down, there was little clarity in the state's request, and two-thirds of the $60 billion approved by Congress for the Gulf Coast has not been spent.
 ''Louisiana lost its credibility by asking for everything,'' said Walter Isaacson, the former chairman of CNN, who serves as vice chairman of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, a new state entity appointed by the governor to coordinate the reconstruction effort. ''Now it is our job to say, we have some reasonable priorities for spending and we are going to be sensible and frugal about it.''

Keeping the City Dry
 Amid the city's divisions, there is one area of consensus: its levees and floodwalls must once again be able to protect New Orleans from swirling gulf waters before the city can fully recover. To date, however, the Army Corps of Engineers has performed only the most rudimentary of repairs, plugging holes and driving steel pilings to create a quick-and-dirty version of protection against Category 3 hurricanes. 
 That will not be enough to restore confidence in the city's future among traumatized residents. Virtually all city and state officials agree that flood protection must be increased to withstand a Category 5 storm.
 ''The comprehensive coastal restoration and Category 5 hurricane protection system is our top federal priority,'' said Andy Kopplin, the executive director of the recovery authority. ''And having Category 5 hurricane protection in New Orleans is essential for its long-term recovery.''
 But that commitment, according to the state, would cost $10 billion to $20 billion and take up to 10 years to meet. Restoring the coastline would cost $14 billion. There is no sign yet that the administration is willing to write checks of this size. 
 Last week, President Bush submitted a spending request to Congress that included $1.6 billion for repair of levees and wetlands, and an additional $4.6 million to study the possibility of a levee upgrade. The proposal was immediately criticized as wholly inadequate by members of the state's Congressional delegation.
 Even the immediate reconstruction work is moving slowly. The corps has advertised 49 contracts for engineering and construction work in the area, but so far only a dozen have been awarded, said Lewis F. Setliff III, who leads the corps' restoration task force. 
 Then there is the dirt. Even the most basic repairs will require about three million cubic yards of soil, the equivalent of a football field on which dirt is stacked 1,575 feet high, Mr. Setliff said. The corps has yet to find enough sites for the so-called ''borrow pits'' for the soil, which ideally need to be close to the construction sites. 
 Given these concerns, it is not clear that the corps will meet its self-imposed deadline of June 1 to return the city's flood control system to its pre-Hurricane Katrina strength, though that remains its intent. 
 ''It may very well be in some areas it won't be what you call final protection,'' said Donald L. Basham, the chief of engineering and construction for the corps. ''We may still be affording interim protection measures that if you want to walk away and leave that system for the next 20 years that's not the way you want to leave it. It won't be pretty.''

A Roof Overhead
 Thousands of New Orleans residents want to come home. But for many of them, there remains nothing to return to. 
 In Lakeview and Mid-City, middle-class enclaves in the western half of town, street after street of empty houses sit browned with mud six feet up. Throughout the impoverished Ninth Ward and in neighboring St. Bernard Parish to the east, hundreds of homes have been virtually leveled, and blue tarps stretch over roof after roof throughout the city. All told, roughly 40 percent of the city's homes were flooded, and up to 50,000 homes are likely to be demolished.
 ''Housing is probably our most pressing issue right now,'' Mayor Nagin said in an interview. ''Temporary housing for workers, housing that was damaged or flooded, the quick repair of that. There's just not enough footprint to accommodate the people who want to move back into the city right now.'' 
 The Federal Emergency Management Agency has begun to give tens of thousands of city homeowners financial assistance for rebuilding, but the grants are capped at $26,200 per household, not enough in most cases for major reconstruction. Tax incentives for developers and other forms of bailout money -- all doled out in Lower Manhattan in 2001 -- have been discussed in Congress but not passed. As a result, several ideas that might once have been considered outlandish are being considered to resuscitate the city's housing stock.
 Under one notion that is being discussed by a leading member of Mr. Nagin's rebuilding commission, the city could take control of a house, fix it up and then lease it out. The original owner would have the right to come back eventually and re-establish ownership claims. The idea, based on an old Louisiana legal concept known as usufruct, has already encountered some political opposition, but proponents say that local government may have no choice but to step in.
 Joseph C. Canizaro, a wealthy developer who sits on the mayor's commission, has proposed building new housing in City Park, the beloved New Orleans equivalent of Central Park, and letting some low-lying neighborhoods revert to marshland. Though the idea is politically hard to imagine, it is remarkable for being discussed at all.
 Fear of political consequences, though, have begun to undermine the process of actually getting anything done. Many of the destroyed homes sat in areas that were blighted before a drop of rain from the hurricane fell, and plenty were located in areas that will be vulnerable in the next storm. 
 While the politics become untangled, the futures of thousands of people hang in a terrible balance. ''We need to know what the city is going to do,'' said Oliver Thomas, the president of the New Orleans City Council, ''so we can start planning our lives.''

Looking for Work
 As the city struggles to regain its physical shape, the spine of its economy is cracking.
 Last week, Chase Bank reopened its main branch in a high-rise one block off Canal Street. Four tellers stood at their stations, and three other bank employees sat behind desks, in a branch devoid of a single customer at 2 p.m. on a Wednesday.
 New Orleans has lost $1.5 million in tourist revenues every day since the levees broke, according to the Louisiana Office of Tourism, and only 25 percent of its 3,400 restaurants have reopened. In September, the unemployment rate hit 14.8 percent. 
 The loss of tourism to New Orleans reverberates throughout the region. For example, the fish and shrimp industries, hurting from damage to boats and infrastructure, need mouths to feed in the city. 
 ''We moved 8.2 million pounds of shrimp last year, and 5 million of it went to the New Orleans area,'' said Dean Blanchard, vice president of the Louisiana Shrimp Association. The volume of ships using the city's port -- the nation's fifth largest -- is still 70 percent off its normal capacity, said John Kallenborn, the Port of New Orleans's board chairman.
 Small businesses are struggling to survive because of the paucity of residents and the lack of tourists, and many large companies have yet to return. Before the hurricane, New Orleans was home to roughly 115,000 small businesses. ''Losing half those businesses is not out of the question,'' said W. Anthony Patton, a member of the reconstruction commission. 
 The Recovery Authority is considering asking for $10 billion in grants to help small businesses, and Congress is now considering a proposal that would immediately set aside $450 million in small business loans.
 The city has already lost 29 of the 70 conventions that had been scheduled in 2006. Its convention center, has yet to reopen, and will probably not do so until early next year. 
 Seen from the perspective of the French Quarter and select neighborhoods such as the Garden District and Algiers, the city can seem in surprisingly robust shape. Grocery stores are open on the West Bank, as are bank branches, many restaurants and movie theaters. 
 ''It seems as if the city is breathing again,'' Mayor Nagin said, although he conceded he had no clue as to how many of those exhaling were people who actually live in the City of New Orleans.
 But some of the city's largest high-rises, including One Shell Plaza and Dominion Towers, are still shuttered. Rubenstein Brothers, a clothing store on Canal Street for 81 years, opened to great fanfare last month, yet by midafternoon that day its clerks, well dressed and standing smartly at attention, had nothing to do. 
 When will the rest of the world sip the city's coffee, take in free concerts by Rebirth Brass Band, nibble on po' boys and roam the French Quarter talking about something other than storm surge and FEMA? It could be many years.
 ''We've bottomed out and now we're beginning to claw our way out,'' said Scott Cowen, the president of Tulane University. ''It may take three to five years to really build the model city we all aspire for New Orleans to be.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In the French Quarter, utility workers pumped water from a manhole.
With few livable houses, hundreds of workers have to camp in City Park.
 In the Lower Ninth Ward of New Orleans, levee walls were still lying on the ground last week. The city would be largely unprotected from flooding if there was another big storm, officials say. (Photographs by Robert Caplin/The New York Times)(pg. A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (85%); HURRICANES (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); WEATHER (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



161 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; FIRESTORM IN FRANCE: THE CONTINENT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Despite Minor Incidents, Chance of Large-Scale Riots Elsewhere in Europe Is Seen as Small 

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN, Nov. 7 

 BODY:
Cars were set ablaze late Sunday night in Berlin, in the German city of Bremen and in Brussels in what appeared to be copies of the riots in France. The incidents, though minor so far, served as a reminder to many Europeans that the violence that has swept France could spread to other countries in Europe that also have large, relatively poor and culturally alienated ethnic minorities, most of them predominantly Muslim.
 And, to be sure, there has already been intense violence elsewhere in Europe, if nothing quite like the continuing French disturbances, most notably the fighting between Pakistani and Bangladeshi immigrants and British police officers in several towns in northern England in the summer of 2001. 
 And yet, as officials and immigrant group leaders watched the violence in Paris on television, there seemed to be at least a cautious and tentative conviction that the chance of riots on the scale of the ones in the Paris suburbs breaking out in other countries is small.
 ''From my point of view, we don't have to fear this in Germany,'' Norbert Seitz, director of the German Forum for Crime Prevention, a private information center, said in an interview. The main reason, he said, was the effort of Germany's state and local governments and the police to create youth services and build relations with immigrant groups. 
 Wolfgang Schauble, a conservative member of Parliament slated to be Germany's interior minister, concurred. ''The conditions in France are different from the ones we have,'' he said. ''We don't have these gigantic high-rise projects that they have on the edges of French cities.''
 Many European countries, from Spain to the Netherlands to Italy, have substantial immigrant minorities, including Muslims from North Africa and Turkey. There is certainly a fear in those countries that ghettoized, poor, culturally separate communities are becoming permanent, with the sense of alienation and despair that such places often entail. 
 Particularly in the wake of the rise of global Islamic terrorism and some highly publicized individual attacks by European-born Muslims -- most notoriously the killing last year of Dutch filmmaker Theo Van Gogh -- the nervousness provoked by ever larger Muslim populations in Europe has noticeably increased.
 In general, Europe, which has never developed an immigration culture, seems to have been less successful than the United States at integrating foreigners and giving them a stake in a new national identity. 
 At the same time, European immigrants seem to have been less eager than immigrants to the United States to take on a new identity, instead adhering to their traditional identities, languages and customs for generation after generation. 
 ''One of the greatest dishonesties of European policy and intellectual discourse,'' the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung said Monday, ''has been that multicultural issues can be discussed only in one direction -- the 'accepting society.' Whoever calls on the immigrants themselves to integrate better is seen as a nationalist monster who lacks 'openness.' ''
 Abdelkarim Carrasco, a Spanish Muslim leader, said the risk of a French-like outburst in Spain was small, in part because, with a Muslim population of one million, France simply has many more poor North African Muslims than Spain does.
 But The Associated Press quoted Mr. Carrasco as also saying, ''Either Europe develops and supports the idea of a mixed culture, or Europe has no future.''
 In Italy, the leftist opposition leader, Romano Prodi, a former president of the European Union, warned that poverty, unemployment and urban decay could cause ethnic violence similar to that of France.
 And yet, to anyone familiar with the Paris suburbs, with their ugly high-rise ghetto communities and France's aversion to any special treatment for ethnic minorities, it is little surprise that the recent violence has erupted there. 
 ''I'm always saying, Berlin Kreuzberg is an island of happiness compared to the situation in France,'' Daniel Cohn-Bendit, a leader of the May 1968 student uprising in France and now a member of the European Parliament from Germany, said in an interview with Der Spiegel. The reference was to the district in Berlin where many of Germany's Turkish immigrants have settled.
 While much of Kreuzberg is poorer than other sections of Berlin, it bears no resemblance to Clichy or St.-Denis or any of the other Muslim ghettos near Paris. Kreuzberg is very much a part of Berlin itself, with similar housing, restaurants and cafes and a mix of populations that gives it a multicultural flavor reminiscent of neigborhoods in New York or Los Angeles. Unlike Clichy, for instance, it is no ghetto. 
 ''It's not that there aren't problems,'' said Oguz Ucuncu, the secretary general of the Islamic Community of Milli Gorus, one of Germany's main Turkish organizations. ''But here you don't have the sort of depressing environment you have in France, where they is no prospect of getting out.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (72%); ETHNICITY (71%); CRIME PREVENTION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); BREMEN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (97%); FRANCE (95%); GERMANY (95%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); ENGLAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



162 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: India and China Take On the World and Each Other

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Nov. 7 

 BODY:
For years, the rapid growth of China and India has been based on business with the developed world, and has often meant taking business away from Western industries. Now, companies in the two largest emerging economies in the world are beginning to hunt intensively for business in each other's markets.
 In recent months, a giant company in one country has announced ambitious expansion plans in the other. India-China trade had already been growing at a phenomenal rate, reaching $13.6 billion last year -- a sevenfold increase from 1998. Companies have said their new investments are critical strategic moves aimed at profiting from the other country's rapid rise. 
But also driving the boom in investment has been the shortage of talent in crucial sectors in both countries. The strengths of each are remarkably different: China is an industrial powerhouse in the making, while India has placed its bets more heavily on services. 
 Nowhere can this trend be seen more clearly than in information technology, where India is already perceived as a global leader. China is vowing to catch up.
 Infosys Technologies, the software and information services giant in India, for example, recently announced plans to invest $65 million to expand its business in China. Infosys plans to hire 2,000 computer specialists over the next two years and to construct corporate campuses in Shanghai and Hangzhou to accommodate even more workers. Infosys has not previously made an investment in China of that size and scope and, experts say, it presages similar moves by other Indian technology companies. 
 ''We are going to use China as a global development center, as much as we do India,'' said Saikumar Shamanna, head of human resources development for Infosys in China. He said the company would seek business with multinational corporations in China and also with China's own emerging multinationals. 
 ''Today, options for people are increasing in India so rapidly,'' Mr. Shamanna said, ''that hiring has become a matter of who's willing to overpay the most. When you look at the numbers of engineering graduates coming out of the Chinese universities, this becomes a very attractive place for us.'' 
 India's information technology sector is growing so quickly that wages in some areas are increasing by 25 percent a year, making qualified graduates from the country's best schools scarce. China produces 400,000 engineering graduates each year, many of them in computer studies, and expansion by Indian companies into China is aimed, in part, at wooing them.
 Infosys, based in Bangalore, the capital of India's computer services industry, has risen from obscurity in the last few years to become one of the world's top computer outsourcing companies, mostly by providing software services to large corporations in the United States and elsewhere in the West. 
 Infosys's plans to expand in China have been mirrored by those of several other big Indian companies that also specialize in computer services and outsourcing, like Tata Consulting, Wipro and Satyam Computer Services. This year, Satyam announced its plans to build a major campus in Beijing. Another Indian company, NIIT, has recently expanded in China, creating more than 125 centers around the country where it teaches programming and other computing skills. 
 On the Chinese side, the drive to explore the Indian market is being led by corporate giants, like Huawei Technologies, a networking equipment manufacturer that competes with Cisco Systems of San Jose, Calif.
 ''Since we are a company whose business is based largely on globalization, we felt we had to be in India,'' said Huang Ji, the chief executive of Huawei's operations in India; Huawei has recently hired 700 Indian software specialists. ''In recent years, Chinese companies have been doing research on software on a small scale, and things are still not very standardized. In India, lots of companies have reached a very high level already, and we would like to learn from them.''
 The Chinese government still plays an important role in the creation of companies, and as the value of the computer services and software sectors rises, Chinese officials have been searching for training and investment opportunities in India. As a result, Infosys, for example, recently accepted 100 interns from China at a corporate campus in Mysore, India. The Chinese province of Jiangsu also recently announced plans to recruit as many as 400 software engineers from India to help it start a provincial information technology industry.
 Since starting modestly in China in 2003, Infosys has outgrown three office buildings in Pudong. It is constructing a new campus in Pudong. An official with Infosys said he expected rapid expansion with the potential for tens of thousands of employees spread around China in the near future. 
 On a recent visit to Infosys's headquarters, many of the new hires from China -- most of them recruited from its best universities -- could be seen taking training classes in English. 
 For now, Indian companies enjoy a lead in cross-border investments. A stiff challenge for them remains, however: how to break into the Chinese corporate market, where outsourcing of information services is less established than in most developed economies, and where a strong bias in favor of working with Chinese partners remains in force.
 Goods manufactured in China have become ubiquitous in the Indian marketplace, bringing down the prices of many products and forcing some Indian producers out of business. The future of the economic relationship of the two nations will depend in part on the openness of the Chinese.
 ''Chinese companies are not really used to business-process outsourcing,'' said James Lin, chief executive of Infosys China. ''It's going to take a little more time. We tell them that if you want to be a truly globalized business, we can help you.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (87%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (87%); TRENDS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); HUMAN RESOURCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (84%); WESTERN INDUSTRIES INC (58%)

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (84%); INFY (NYSE) (84%); INFY (NSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS424610 PLASTICS MATERIALS & BASIC FORMS & SHAPES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS332312 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3469 METAL STAMPINGS, NEC (58%); SIC3441 FABRICATED STRUCTURAL METAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) EAST CHINA (90%); ZHEJIANG, CHINA (58%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) CHINA (99%); INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



163 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo Tightens Control in Europe and Asia 

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 7 

 BODY:
Yahoo said Monday that it would pay $500 million to buy the remaining shares of its British, German, French and South Korean units to reduce its dependence on the United States market and to compete better with Google. 
 Technology analysts said Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale, Calif., was eager to cement its control of its European businesses so it could take better advantage of the European online advertising market. But they said Yahoo also wanted to catch up with Google's aggressive overseas expansion.
''The U.S. online advertising market is much bigger than Europe's, but it is a crowded market and the room for growth is shrinking,'' said Julian Smith, an analyst at Jupiter Research, a market research firm in London. ''In Europe, online advertising is growing much faster and portals like Yahoo want to tap into that.''
 In Europe, revenue from online advertising is expected to reach 6.5 billion euros in 2010, from 3.2 billion euros, or $3.8 billion, in 2005, according to Jupiter Research. In the United States, it said, annual online advertising revenue will increase to $16.04 billion, from $10.1 billion, during the same period.
 Google's European expansion has also forced Yahoo increasingly to turn its attention across the Atlantic. Google has attracted a large and loyal following by expanding the languages of its search engines in Europe and by teaming with local portals to offer access to services like plumbers and restaurant reviews. 
 Analysts say such services have helped Google gain an edge over Yahoo in important countries like France, Germany, Italy and Spain. In Germany, Europe's largest online market, Google had 18 million users last month, compared with 5.4 million for Yahoo.
 ''Google has a bigger presence in Europe, and Yahoo wants to catch up,'' said Hellen Omwando, an analyst at Forrester Research, a research firm in London. She noted that only a year ago, Yahoo offered Google as its search engine on its portal in Europe, though it has since begun offering its own service.
 The change reflects concerns on Wall Street that Yahoo's service has been falling behind Google, which has been picking up market share in the search business.
 Terry S. Semel, chief executive of Yahoo, said that buying the outstanding stakes in the four overseas units would give Yahoo more flexibility to take advantage of growth opportunities in Europe and South Korea. He said the purchases would be completed by the end of the year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MARKET SHARE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (77%); SEARCH ENGINES (74%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (70%); RESTAURANTS (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); YAHOO! INC (95%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: TERRY SEMEL (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (86%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



164 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: While Paris Burns

 BODY:
As shocking as the riots that have swept through the depressed outskirts of Paris and other French cities over the past two weeks has been the flailing response of President Jacques Chirac and his ministers. They appear to have no idea what to do and to whom to talk. Their floundering illustrates the deeper problems that underlie the current unrest: a failed approach to absorbing immigrants into society, an out-of-touch political elite and ministers more interested in a presidential election that's still nearly two years away than in coming up with answers for today's literally burning problems. 
 There can be no condoning the rioting, which seems to have grown both in extent and violence since it erupted on Oct. 27. In hundreds of towns and neighborhoods, French-Arab and French-African youths have burned cars, businesses and public buildings and fought with the police and firefighters. Bystanders have been beaten, and one has now died. This wave of criminal violence is likely to reinforce prejudices against France's five million to six million Muslims. It has already brought out shameful name-calling demagogy from Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, a leading presidential candidate.
That is a particular shame because he's been one of the few French politicians willing to acknowledge that the republic's centuries-old ideal of integration, which ignores the ethnic and religious communities' existence and special problems, hasn't worked for years. Now Mr. Sarkozy, the one government leader who has dared to advocate American-style affirmative action methods, has chosen to inflame a dangerous situation and immolate his own hard-won credibility in immigrant communities. 
 The other leading government voice has come from the aloof and aristocratic prime minister, Dominique de Villepin, Mr. Sarkozy's chief rival for the presidential nomination of the governing center-right. Although Mr. Villepin seems unwilling to break from the failed integration model, he at least seems to recognize the importance of cultivating contacts with credible leaders in the immigrant suburbs. He also talks about addressing the pressure-cooker conditions of the seething outer suburbs, including crime-ridden housing projects, scandalously high unemployment rates and toxic tension between the police and the predominantly Arab and African residents. Unfortunately, he seems unprepared to offer any specifics at this time. 
 Meanwhile, the fires continue to burn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); VIOLENT CRIME (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); RELIGION (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (52%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (78%); JACQUES CHIRAC (73%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (94%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (92%) FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



165 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: NEW YORK CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: What Polls? Mayoral Rivals Run Right to the End

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY; Thomas J. Lueck and Mike McIntire contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg campaigned for 17 hours yesterday as he hit each borough twice in search of a historic victory -- and an overwhelming new mandate -- at the polls on Election Day. His Democratic challenger, Fernando Ferrer, concentrated on avoiding an embarrassing defeat, especially with black voters, by making clear that he had not given up.
 ''I need your votes, I need your children's votes, and I need your grandchildren's votes,'' Mr. Bloomberg told about 200 older Asian-Americans near City Hall yesterday. The mayor, 63, even played the age card, saying, ''If you vote tomorrow, why don't you vote for the senior in the race?''
Mr. Ferrer, who is 55, projected sunny optimism in the face of a new poll showing him 38 points behind and drew cheers in Brooklyn with the Rev. Al Sharpton and then in Chelsea with Barack Obama of Illinois, the only black United States senator. 
 ''There's going to be an immense surprise tomorrow, so fasten your seat belts!'' Mr. Ferrer told reporters on Fulton Mall, though he declined to drop a hint or predict a margin of victory for himself over the mayor.
 As is common on election eve, the political rivals were in sync with it's-not-over-yet messages, warning against complacency and urging New Yorkers to vote. Mr. Bloomberg, a Republican, projected confidence and gratitude, while Mr. Ferrer appeared downright bubbly, and his team seemed to be going for broke as Mr. Sharpton promised that hot dogs would taste better and babies would smile more if Mr. Ferrer won.
 For Mr. Bloomberg, the race has come down to achieving the largest margin of victory possible, thus adding clout to an already powerful City Hall that is determined to aim high in a second four-year term. Although Bloomberg aides doubt that their side will win by more than 30 points, they hope to beat Rudolph W. Giuliani's re-election margin of 17 points in 1997.
 An overwhelming mandate, for a Republican incumbent in an overwhelmingly Democratic city, could provide significant political capital for Mr. Bloomberg to press a second-term agenda that would focus on economic development projects such as the rebuilding of ground zero, the Atlantic Yards complex in Brooklyn, low-cost and luxury housing, and new baseball stadiums. It could also help him win more money from Albany for schools and transportation and from Washington for security appropriations based on threats to the city.
 William T. Cunningham, a senior adviser to the Bloomberg campaign, said a 10-point margin would represent ''a solid victory,'' and anything higher would reinforce that New Yorkers are solidly behind the mayor's brand of leadership.
 ''The stronger the vote, the more it says that New Yorkers endorse the mayor's way of managing the city and its problems,'' Mr. Cunningham said. ''And if the public says, 'We want his way to continue,' other elected officials may think, 'Maybe we have to adapt ourselves to the mayor's way, too.' ''
 For Mr. Ferrer, meanwhile, this has become a battle to avoid a humiliating defeat, not only for himself but also for all of the prominent Democrats who have campaigned with him. These range from notables such as former President Bill Clinton and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton to up-and-coming officials like City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. and the Bronx borough president, Adolfo Carrion Jr., both of whom are considering runs for mayor in 2009 if Mr. Ferrer loses.
 The Ferrer camp has become especially preoccupied with winning majorities of the vote in the Bronx and among black and Hispanic voters -- considered to be the base of voters for Mr. Ferrer, who grew up in the Bronx and is seeking to become the first Hispanic mayor of New York. Mr. Ferrer, who also ran for mayor in 1997 and 2001, is not expected to run again (unless for re-election in 2009), so today's vote may determine his political legacy as well.
 ''We'll fight hard with the resources we have until the very last minute to make sure our base turns out,'' said Luis Miranda, a senior adviser to Mr. Ferrer. ''It's hard, though: We're calling our voters and find that they're sad on the phone because they believe the polls that say the race is over. But it's not over, we tell them. So it's double work: You have to get people over their funk, and then you have to make sure they go to the polls.''
 Both candidates began a final day of campaigning yesterday by greeting commuters just after 7 a.m., with the mayor at St. George ferry terminal on Staten Island and Mr. Ferrer at a subway station in Queens. Mr. Bloomberg kept a frenetic schedule that had him pinballing between the five boroughs, with his day ending atop the Empire State Building close to midnight.
 At each stop -- which included a bowling alley on Staten Island and a Little League bingo game in the Bronx -- the mayor pleaded with his supporters to avoid overconfidence and put voting on their to-do list. Mr. Ferrer kept to a lighter public schedule of four events yesterday, as he spent time behind the scenes calling supporters and seeking last-minute donations.
 But he set a tone of optimism and exuberance on the campaign trail, heartily shaking every hand he could find along Fulton Mall with Mr. Sharpton.
 ''Tomorrow is the day!'' Mr. Ferrer exclaimed over and over to passers-by. ''If you show up, I'll show up.''
 Mr. Sharpton shrugged off the poll numbers and said the Bloomberg team, abetted by tabloid newspaper headlines declaring the election all but over, could be surprised.
 ''Keep telling Bloomberg's people that it's over -- let them go to sleep tonight thinking it's over, because our people will come out,'' Mr. Sharpton told reporters. ''I think the biggest danger Bloomberg has is that they've already told their voters, don't come out. We're out here telling ours to come out.''
 And tell them Mr. Sharpton did, with some of the embellishments that are his trademark. Inside the Fulton Hot Dog King, Mr. Sharpton bellowed, ''You make Freddy mayor, there'll be more sauerkraut in your hot dogs!'' At Borough Hall, a woman handed her 5-month-old baby, Hezekiah Jefferson, to Mr. Sharpton, who kissed him, passed him to Mr. Ferrer for two kisses, and then lifted Hezekiah on his shoulder.
 ''Hezekiah should not grow up in a city where you have to be a billionaire to be the mayor,'' Mr. Sharpton said.
 Soon after, Mr. Ferrer walked through Chelsea with another black leader, Senator Obama. Ferrer aides said the senator's tight schedule did not allow him to visit a predominantly black neighborhood, but they were thrilled to have his support.
 Mr. Obama walked three of the four blocks on the schedule, then said he could take two questions before he had to leave. When asked what he would say to black voters who favor Mayor Bloomberg, he said he hoped all Democrats in the city, regardless of race, would ''recall what the Democratic Party stands for.'' When asked why Mayor Bloomberg should be defeated, he said, ''I am here because I know Freddy Ferrer, I know his character, know his track record and know what he stands for.''
 Then Mr. Obama hopped into a waiting car, and Mr. Ferrer walked the final block to 23rd Street, where a car was waiting to whisk him away.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg campaigned in all five boroughs yesterday on a day that stretched on from early morning into the night. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)
 Although polls showed him far behind, Fernando Ferrer displayed a sunny optimism in his last day of campaigning. He was joined by the Rev. Al Sharpton at one stop and by Senator Barack Obama at another. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); BASEBALL (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%); ASIAN AMERICANS (55%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); AL SHARPTON (72%); RUDY GIULIANI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



166 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; BALLOT QUESTIONS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Budget Procedure and Transit Bonds

 BODY:

Proposition 1: State Budget Overhaul

Would change the state budget process and shift budget-making powers from the governor to the Legislature. It would have a contingency budget, based on the prior year's spending, that would take effect if the budget were late. It would also set off changes in state law that would delay the start of the fiscal year, establish an independent budget office and appropriate school aid two years at a time. 


SUPPORTERS SAY -- It would end late budgets and make the process more accountable while avoiding the distracting battles over the short-lived emergency bills that have been used in recent years to keep the government running when the budget was late. Because the contingency budget would be based on the previous year's spending plan, it would not increase expenditures, and all sides would have an incentive to pass the budget on time to avoid having a spending plan imposed.

OPPONENTS SAY -- It would virtually guarantee late, more expensive budgets, because once a contingency budget took effect, the Legislature could bypass the governor's proposal and pass its own budget. Putting more budgeting powers in the Legislature's hands would pave the way for runaway state spending by legislators seeking to spend on their districts.

Proposition 2: Transportation Bond Act

Would raise $2.9 billion, to be divided evenly between the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the State Department of Transportation, for transit, highway, bridge and other projects.

SUPPORTERS SAY -- Statewide roads and bridges are in bad condition, and the transportation authority needs money for basic maintenance and for major projects like the Second Avenue subway and a link between the Long Island Rail Road and Grand Central Terminal.
 The bonds would be voter-approved general obligation debt, which some consider ''good debt.'' In contrast, state authorities like the M.T.A. have issued about $37 billion in state-supported debt that was not approved by voters in a program some call ''backdoor borrowing.'' 
 The authority says its overall capital program, including the bonds, would generate $25.3 billion in economic activity and 16,000 to 35,000 jobs a year for the next nine years.

OPPONENTS SAY -- The state already has a large debt burden: $40 billion to $50 billion, depending on what measure is used. Even using the lower baseline, the debt amounts to $2,593 per state resident, more than double the national average and the fifth highest among all states. Issuing further debt could weaken the state's financial position, jeopardize its credit rating and possibly result in higher taxes.
 The bond act is only a small part of the much larger $35.8 billion state transportation plan. Borrowing $2.9 billion and increasing the state's debt is therefore unnecessary to achieve the broad goals of the larger plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (88%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (86%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (86%); APPROVALS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (71%) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



167 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; STORM AND CRISIS: HOUSING; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Lack of Section 8 Vouchers for Storm Evacuees Highlights Rift Over Housing Program

BYLINE: By JASON DEPARLE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 7 

 BODY:
When the Northridge earthquake jolted Los Angeles in 1994, displacing tens of thousands of people, federal officials turned to one of the most venerable tools in their kit. Offering 11,300 housing vouchers under the Section 8 program, they quickly helped needy families rent private apartments. 
 When Hurricane Katrina scattered more than half a million evacuees, many experts urged the government to use the vouchers. But Section 8, the largest low-income housing program, is under political assault. 
Critical of its costs and what they call wasteful incentives, Bush administration officials want to cap the program's growth and let local authorities try cost-cutting measures like time limits or rent increases. Ignoring calls to use Section 8 to house hurricane families, they turned instead to cruise ships and trailers, then devised a system of cash payments that still has about 200,000 people living in hotels.
 Administration officials say their misgivings about Section 8 played no role in a strategy of storm relief that continues to provoke criticism. But the storm has highlighted the divisions over the $15 billion program, which just a few years ago seemed an emblem of rare bipartisan accord.
 The shattering of the consensus comes after housing inflation left many poor families with new struggles to pay the rent. And because vouchers can be used to move to better neighborhoods, supporters of Section 8 say the program has the potential to work larger transformations among two million households getting help.
 ''It enables a poor person to do what everyone wants to do for their family: live in a neighborhood with better jobs, decent schools and as little crime as possible,'' said Barbara Sard of the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research and advocacy group.
 But officials at the Department of Housing and Urban Development note that the program's costs have risen 40 percent over the last four years.
 ''The housing voucher program is something we believe in,'' said Scott Keller, the department's deputy chief of staff. ''But we have to make sure the money's well spent.''
 Section 8 was created in 1974 as a Republican alternative to conventional public housing. Tenants paid 30 percent of their income toward rent and utilities, and the government paid the rest, up to a local ceiling.
 In 1998, Congress steered most new vouchers to the poorest households, those with incomes currently less than $15,600. And to correct for chronic ''underleasing'' -- only about 90 percent of vouchers were being used -- Congress lured new landlords with higher rents. It let housing authorities pay owners 110 percent of the local ceiling, or more with HUD approval.
 Annual Section 8 spending rose sharply. In part, it is because the number of vouchers grew, to 2.1 million now from about 1.6 million in 1998. Congress authorized some of that growth, but much occurred because of pre-existing laws giving tenants vouchers when subsidized apartments were converted to market-rate properties.
 Housing inflation added to costs, as did stagnating wages, because the less a tenant earns, the more rent the government pays.
 The program's defenders say those rising costs were an anomaly.
 ''I don't think spending is out of control,'' said Edgar O. Olsen, an economist at the University of Virginia and a conservative supporter of the program.
 But HUD officials say the new rules encourage waste. While rental inflation was 26 percent from 2000 to 2003, Mr. Keller said, the amount the government paid for an average apartment rose 46 percent. He blames the rules that allow housing authorities to pay landlords more than the local ceiling and pass on the cost. ''You just saw absolute, irrational spending,'' he said.
 In 2003, the administration proposed making Section 8 a block grant, offering localities fixed sums in exchange for new flexibility. To stretch the money, for instance, they could serve tenants with higher incomes or demand minimum rents. 
 The legislation stalled, but the administration achieved part of its goals through a new system of Congressional appropriations based on past expenditures rather than on the cost of vouchers now in use.
 ''It is setting the stage for the program to be starved,'' Sheila Crowley, president of the National Low-Income Housing Coalition, an advocacy group, said of the new system.
 For hurricane evacuees, officials devised a two-tier plan. Evacuees who were receiving housing aid qualified for a new voucher, which pays landlords less than Section 8. (In late October, the administration asked Congress to make those vouchers work more like Section 8.) Others were offered a payment of $2,358 for three months' housing. The aid can be extended for up to 18 months, but only if beneficiaries can prove they used the first payment for housing.
 Some of the 488,000 evacuees who received the money may have used it for other things. Facing a Dec. 1 deadline to leave hotels, they could be without shelter and disqualified from future housing aid. 
 ''The government is just being incredibly stubborn and foolish in the way they're handling the program,'' said Douglas Culkin, executive vice president of the National Apartment Association, a trade group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (91%); DISPLACED PERSONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FAMILY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); EARTHQUAKES (73%); HURRICANES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); CITIES (50%) 

PERSON: Jason Deparle; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Orleans (La); Louisiana

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



168 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 5790 words

HEADLINE: The Idiots Abroad 

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
If President Bush wants to know what went wrong on his trip south, I recommend a book by three Latin American journalists. Their ''Guide to the Perfect Latin American Idiot,'' a best seller when it was published nine years ago, remains indispensable for understanding phenomena like Diego Maradona.
 Maradona, born in a shantytown near Buenos Aires, became the world's most famous soccer player in the 1980's after he left Argentina to play for teams in Spain and Italy. Besides collecting his $5 million salary in Europe, he played exhibition games in Arab countries at $325,000 per appearance and made $10 million annually in endorsement contracts with corporations based in at least four continents, companies like Puma, Fuji-Xerox and Coca-Cola. 
And what did he learn from this international rags-to-riches tale? During Bush's visit to Argentina, Maradona took time out from his busy schedule (he now has a television show) to help rally tens of thousands of people against that horrible modern scourge: free trade.
 He was one of the headliners at the rally along with Hugo Chavez, the socialist president of Venezuela, who is determined to prevent a free trade agreement among Latin American countries and the United States.
 ''We are going to stand against the human trash known as Bush,'' Maradona told the crowd, between puffs on a cigar given to him by one of his heroes, Fidel Castro.
 To be fair, this sort of thinker exists on other continents, too. But what distinguishes the Perfect Latin American Idiot is his persistence. No matter how far the continent falls behind the rest of the world, its populists cling to the same beliefs in socialism and big government, the same distrust of capitalism and free trade, the same conviction that Latin American poverty is the fault of the United States.
 ''Maradona embodies the wonderful possibilities of globalization, yet he does everything in his power to deny people poorer than himself to participate in that world,'' said one of the ''Perfect Idiot'' authors, Alvaro Vargas Llosa, the Peruvian journalist (and son of the novelist Mario Vargas Llosa). ''Everything Maradona and Chavez stand for has been tried before. These populists are repeating the mistakes of the Mexican Revolution, of Brazil in the 30's, of Argentina in the 50's, of Peru in the 80's.'' 
 The new wave of populists is led by Chavez, who's been using the recent windfall in oil revenues to expand government and solidify his hold on power. But even while $100 million in oil money pours into Venezuela every day ($60 million of that from those terrible gringos north of the Rio Grande), the poverty rate has risen above 50 percent.
 Meanwhile, the poverty rate has declined sharply in Chile, to about 20 percent (compared with about 50 percent in the rest of the continent). Chile has become South America's economic success story by embracing capitalism and making its own free trade agreements with the United States and other countries, most recently China. 
 Bush went to the Latin America summit meeting hoping to persuade the rest of the continent to follow Chile's example -- the right message but the wrong messenger and the wrong place. Any American president, especially one as unpopular as Bush, makes too easy a target for the populists and rioters who turned the meeting into their own photo opportunity.
 ''Nothing has ever emerged from a Latin summit,'' said Jose Pinera, the Chilean reformer who started the first private-account social-security system, and then helped introduce similar systems in two dozen other countries. ''Real change blossoms from good internal public policies. President Bush should not attend and dignify these weapons of mass distraction.'' 
 The best American strategy, as Alvaro Vargas Llosa says, would be to do less in Latin America. Instead of publicly pressuring the whole continent to sign a free trade agreement, quietly make deals with the countries that want one. Instead of denouncing and plotting against Chavez, ignore him.
 And instead of fighting a drug war in South America, surrender. The war has been utterly ineffectual at stopping the flow of cocaine, which has actually gotten cheaper on American streets. But by infuriating communities in the Andes, the war has created a political base for populists running on anti-American platforms. They may be economic dunces, but in this case the perfect idiots are the drug warriors in Washington helping to elect them. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2006

 CORRECTION:
John Tierney used an out-of-date figure in his column of Nov. 8, 2005, for poverty rates in Venezuela. The 2004 figures showed poverty rising above 50 percent, but for the first half of 2005, the Venezuelan government reported that the rate was below 50 percent. The error was pointed out to us recently.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); POVERTY RATES (85%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SOCCER (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); ATHLETES (56%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (56%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); HUGO CHAVEZ (78%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) LATIN AMERICA (95%); ARGENTINA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



169 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Virginians Sprint as Polls Show Dead Heat

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va., Nov. 7 

 BODY:
On their final day of campaigning in what the polls and political observers agree is an extremely close race, the Democratic and Republican candidates for governor in Virginia skipped across the length of the state on Monday while embracing the men they hope will help them win. 
 The Republican, former Attorney General Jerry Kilgore, appeared at a rally at the airport here with President Bush after spending much of the afternoon campaigning with Senator George Allen and attacking the Democratic rival, Lt. Gov. Tim Kaine, as too liberal for Virginia. 
''If you want to keep your taxes low and your economy growing, there's only one person in the race that will do that and that's Jerry Kilgore,'' Mr. Bush told the crowd at the airport here.
 Though Mr. Kilgore has not identified himself closely with Mr. Bush, even skipping the president's recent speech in Norfolk on terrorism, his campaign has clearly calculated that although Mr. Bush's approval rating here has slipped below 50 percent in some polls, he continues to enjoy strong enough support among core Republicans to get them to the polls on Tuesday. 
 Mr. Kaine scheduled four appearances with the popular incumbent, Gov. Mark Warner, who has anointed Mr. Kaine the candidate who can continue the policies he says have brought the state a budget surplus and improved scores on school tests. 
 At each event, Mr. Kaine promoted what he called record state investment in transportation and education and urged voters not to change a government that he said was working well. In Richmond, Mr. Kaine said that the state government had been broken and that he and Mr. Warner had repaired it. 
 ''For God's sake, don't break it again,'' he told voters.
 Mr. Kaine's advisers said they were encouraged by Mr. Bush's 11th-hour appearance with Mr. Kilgore, saying they thought it could energize as many core Democrats as loyal Republicans. 
 Virginia and New Jersey are the only states with contests for governor, and Virginia is being closely watched as a bellwether for two reasons. First, many Democrats say the outcome will help measure Mr. Bush's strength, providing a portent for the Congressional races next year. Many Republicans say the race will be mainly decided on local issues and will have little national significance. 
 Second, analysts from the two parties are looking for signs of Mr. Warner's presidential potential. The governor, whose approval ratings have exceeded 70 percent, is barred from seeking re-election by the State Constitution. 
 He is considering running for president in 2008, presenting himself as a pragmatic Democrat who can win in the South. His ability to pull Mr. Kaine to victory would help convince Democrats nationwide of that assertion, many political analysts say. 
 Polls have shown that the race is a statistical dead heat, with Mr. Kaine having closed a significant lead held by Mr. Kilgore early in the year. Virginia remains a strongly Republican state, having given its electoral votes to Republican presidential candidates since 1968. But it has shown a more bipartisan streak with its governors, electing four Democrats in the last 24 years. 
 State Senator H. Russell Potts Jr., a moderate Republican, is also running for governor. Though most polls show him winning less than 5 percent, he could prove a factor if the outcome is extremely close. Analysts say it is not clear which major candidate he would draw more support from. 
 In the hard-fought race, neither Mr. Kilgore nor Mr. Kaine proved to be particularly charismatic or dynamic campaigners. The race itself has had no dominant issues, unlike recent contests for governor in Virginia where major problems like taxes, abortion and crime seemed to galvanize voters. 
 Instead, the candidates this year underscored a few areas, mainly transportation and education, while talking a great deal about character, their own as well as their opponent's. 
 Mr. Kilgore has called for providing more state financing to relieve traffic congestion, particularly in the booming northern region, and merit pay for teachers. But he has focused more on attacking Mr. Kaine as too liberal, particularly on the death penalty, illegal immigration and taxes. 
 In one of the most emotional and contentious aspects of the race, Mr. Kilgore used television commercials featuring murder victims' relatives to say Mr. Kaine's opposition to capital punishment would lead him to try to repeal the law or declare a moratorium on executions. 
 Mr. Kaine, a Roman Catholic who says he opposes the death penalty for religious reasons, sharply denies that, saying he would uphold the law. Mr. Kaine's campaign has suggested that Mr. Kilgore's attacks have denigrated Mr. Kaine's religious values, and Mr. Kaine used his commercials to call Mr. Kilgore's attacks dishonest and gratuitous.
 Mr. Kaine has also called for dedicating more state money to transportation and has outlined plans for universal prekindergarten programs and for giving local officials more power to slow development. 
 More often than not, Mr. Kaine has wrapped himself in the accomplishments of Mr. Warner, particularly his 2004 budget, which raised some taxes, reduced others and closed a yawning shortfall. Mr. Kilgore criticized the budget for raising taxes but has stopped short of saying he would repeal it.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jerry Kilgore, left, and Senator George Allen stopping yesterday at the airport in the middle of their campaigning in Roanoke, Va. Also in Roanoke, Lt. Gov. Tim Kaine, right, dived into the crowd at a rally. (Photo by Steve Helber/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Brendan Bush/The Roanoke Times, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (57%) 

PERSON: TIM KAINE (92%); MARK WARNER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) James Dao; Timothy M (Lt Gov) Kaine; George W (Pres) Bush; Jerry Kilgore; Mark (Gov) Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (88%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2005



170 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

In Toll Brothers Report, More Signs That the Housing Market Is Slowing
The nation's largest maker of luxury homes, Toll Brothers, predicted that it would sell fewer homes over the next 12 months than it had forecast and would make less money than anticipated. High gas prices and recent hurricanes seem to have rattled households, causing some to delay house purchases, company executives said. It was the latest sign that many real estate markets are slowing. Shares of Toll Brothers ended the day down 14 percent, at $33.91. [Page C1.] 


The sales forecast from Toll Brothers sent stocks falling after four sessions of gains. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 46.51 points, to 10,539.72. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 4.22, to 1,218.59, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 6.17, to 2,172.07 [C11.].

The dollar rose to its highest level against the euro in two years, propelled partly by rising interest rates in the United States. Market Place. [C1.]

Bank of New York to Pay $38 Million After Inquiry
Federal prosecutors said the Bank of New York had agreed to pay $38 million in penalties and victim compensation in a deal stemming from a six-year investigation of fraud and money laundering involving Russian and American bank accounts and other fraudulent transactions. [C1.]

Farm Subsidies Yield Surfeit of Corn
This season's bumper crop of corn is too much of a good thing, underscoring what critics call a paradox at the heart of the farm-subsidy program: America's efficient farmers may be encouraged to produce far more than the country can use, depressing prices and raising subsidy payments. [A1.]

Trade Deal With China Restricts Clothing Exports
A trade agreement between the United States and China, limiting China's clothing exports for the next three years, makes official what had already been happening -- the return of quotas. [C1.]

A bipartisan advisory group plans to deliver a report to Congress that is sharply critical of China's trade practices and endorses sanctions including a tariff on imports unless Beijing takes steps to allow its currency to move in line with market forces. [C3.]

Bill Proposes $70 Billion in Tax Reductions
The Senate's top Republican tax writer unveiled a bill that would provide $70 billion in tax cuts, including $7 billion for the Gulf Coast areas damaged by Hurricane Katrina. [C3.]

Profit and Protests After Demand for Drug Soars
ViroPharma has become profitable for the first time in its 11-year history because it sells Vancocin, the only drug approved to treat a deadly bacterium. Some doctors have criticized the company for increasing the price of the drug three times, by a total of 80 percent, in response to rising demand. [C1.]

Charity Group Is Sued Over Tax Deduction
Federal prosecutors filed a lawsuit against a charity accused of encouraging home sellers to make ostensibly tax-deductible gifts that the charity gave to buyers so they could put a down payment on a seller's home. [C7.]

Supreme Court Rules in Favor of Workers
The Supreme Court ruled that companies must pay workers for the time it takes to change into protective clothing and safety gear and walk to their workstations. [C10.]

Microsoft Memos Warn of Competitive Threats
Microsoft must fundamentally alter its business or face a major competitive disadvantage from a growing array of companies offering Internet services, according to memorandums by two of the company's top executives. [C5.]

Ad Campaigns Focus on Youthful Cellphone Users
Upstart cellphone companies like Amp'd Mobile are using high-speed wireless Internet access and a host of content like video clips and MP3's to lure gadget-loving teenagers and young adults. A $60 million campaign for Amp'd, created by the boutique agency Taxi in New York, employs a macabre twist with the slogan, ''Try not to die. Amp'd Mobile is coming.'' Playing on the death-defying theme, the Amp'd Mobile ads depict people engaging in risky behavior like skydiving. Advertising. [C6.]

New Rating System for Cellphone Content
The nation's major cellular phone carriers said that they had adopted a content rating system for video, music, pictures and games that they sell to cellphone users -- a development that could pave the way for them to begin selling pornography and sexually oriented content on mobile devices. [C5.]

Serono Says It May Seek to Be Acquired
Serono, the biotechnology company, said that it had hired Goldman Sachs to explore strategic alternatives including the sale of the company. [C8.]

Retail Transformation in Los Angeles
The garment district in Los Angeles, like the rest of downtown, has been undergoing a construction boom. Square Feet. [C10.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Toll Brothers shares since September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); HURRICANES (77%); DRUG PRICES (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); WEATHER (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); CHARITIES (72%); EURO (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); CORN FARMING (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (68%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (67%); TAX LAW (66%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (65%); MONEY LAUNDERING (65%); TAX RELIEF (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); BACTERIA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (69%); VIROPHARMA INC (51%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (69%); VPHM (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (53%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



171 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Hits 2-Year High Against Euro

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
The dollar rose on Tuesday to its highest level against the euro in two years, propelled by rising interest rates in the United States and rising pessimism about Europe.
 The dollar's move, the latest in a climb that has been under way in fits and starts for months, continued the trend away from traders' fixation last year on the United States' large and rising foreign indebtedness. The dollar also gained strength against the Japanese yen.
But the steady rise of the dollar may not be an unalloyed cause for celebration on either side of the Atlantic. For Americans, the stronger dollar stems in part from expectations that the Federal Reserve will push interest rates higher than investors had previously thought. And if the dollar's rise continues, it is likely to make it harder for American manufacturers to compete in world markets, increasing political pressures to protect some industries from foreign companies. 
 For Europeans, the decline of the euro reflects new gloom -- possibly aggravated by 12 days of rioting in poor neighborhoods across France -- about growth in the euro zone's biggest economies. Germany, France and Italy, which together account for more than half of the euro zone's economic activity, are growing at barely 1 percent or less this year. Aside from the riots in France, Germany remains bogged down in a political stalemate that has greatly reduced the chances for a long-promised overhaul of economic regulations.
 The euro has declined by nearly 5 percent against the dollar since August, but its slide became more pronounced about a week ago. On Tuesday, the euro dropped briefly to $1.1711, slightly lower than its value at the time of its inception in January 1999.
 Robert Simche, chief currency strategist at Bank of America, said the dollar's surge stemmed primarily from expectations of higher interest rates in the United States, which have been moving up while rates in Europe and elsewhere around the world have stayed relatively low.
 ''It is hard to find a period in the last 5 or 10 years when expectations about future interest rates been so dominant in the foreign exchange markets,'' Mr. Simche said. ''It's become the dominant issue.'' Higher interest rates attract investors and tend to drive up a nation's currency. The Fed has been pushing up short-term rates in small steps ever since June 2004, but many investors had been betting that it would pause once rates hit 4 percent or so -- especially when energy prices surged after Hurricane Katrina.
 But Fed officials have delivered a raft of speeches over the last month that emphasized their concerns about rising inflation and a determination to avoid a return to the ''stagflation'' of the 1970's.
 Fed officials have also been buoyed by signs of continued strong growth, despite soaring oil and gas prices and the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina.
 Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, told a Congressional committee last week that the outlook for growth and employment was fairly good but that inflationary pressures were building.
 The prospect of higher interest rates appears to be trumping any investor anxiety about the United States' huge trade and financial deficits. The nation's imbalance in trade and investment with the rest of the world -- known as the current account -- is on track to exceed $700 billion, about 6 percent of the gross domestic product. That sum, which is financed by funds from abroad, is coming at the same time that American household savings rates have plunged to zero. 
 Asian central banks have financed much of the United States' borrowing; the central banks of Japan and China now hold more than $1 trillion in dollar-denominated securities between them.
 Yet for all the talk about global imbalances, demand for dollars has yet to falter.
 ''All the talk about U.S. current-account deficits hurting the dollar has vanished from the markets,'' said Carl Weinberg, global economist at High Frequency Economics, a forecasting firm in Valhalla, N.Y. The dollar has climbed 13 percent against the euro this year. The euro's most recent peak was nearly $1.2587 in early September, about 8 cents higher than its value at the close of trading in New York Tuesday, $1.1785.
 Though interest-rate differences accounted for most of the dollar's recent climb, analysts said the riots in France may have weakened the euro even further.
 ''The riots are definitely doing something,'' said Ashraf Laidi, currency analyst at MG Financial Group in New York. ''It's the usual story of growing unemployment in the euro zone, social unrest that is at first attributed to ethnicity but is really about unemployment and the lack of jobs.''
 But the dollar has gained against other major currencies, recently hitting a two-year high against the Japanese yen and climbing sharply against the Swiss franc.
 Analysts disagree about how much of the dollar's rise is part of a longer-term trend. Mr. Laidi, eyeing the United States' huge trade imbalances, predicted that the euro would climb back from $1.17 to $1.23 by the end of the year.
 By contrast, Edward Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Oak Associates, predicted that the euro would continue to fall, plunging to just $1 within two years.
 Many analysts and traders contend that the dollar's most recent rise stems largely from a one-time tax break that allows corporations to bring overseas profits back to the United States at a small fraction of normal tax rates.
 Mr. Simche, from Bank of America, estimated that companies were poised to bring back as much as $85 billion and that two-thirds of that money could flow back in the final quarter of this year.
 A stronger dollar reflects to some extent investors' faith in the American economy and helps keep inflation under control. But powerful movements in either direction also serve as a warning signal of potential economic problems ahead. Ian Shepherdson, who tracks the American economy for High Frequency Economics, predicted Tuesday that rising interest rates could lead to a crunch in the housing market and a slowdown in overall economic growth by the middle of 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INFLATION (78%); TRENDS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (71%); POLITICS (68%); HURRICANES (62%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



172 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: 'Innovative' Math, but Can You Count?

BYLINE: By Samuel G. Freedman. 
E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

DATELINE: PENFIELD, N.Y. 

 BODY:
LAST spring, when he was only a sophomore, Jim Munch received a plaque honoring him as top scorer on the high school math team here. He went on to earn the highest mark possible, a 5, on an Advanced Placement exam in calculus. His ambition is to become a theoretical mathematician.
 So Jim might have seemed the veritable symbol for the new math curriculum installed over the last seven years in this ambitious, educated suburb of Rochester. Since seventh grade, he had been taking the ''constructivist'' or ''inquiry'' program, so named because it emphasizes pupils' constructing their own knowledge through a process of reasoning.
Jim, however, placed the credit elsewhere. His parents, an engineer and an educator, covertly tutored him in traditional math. Several teachers, in the privacy of their own classrooms, contravened the official curriculum to teach the problem-solving formulas that constructivist math denigrates as mindless memorization. 
 ''My whole experience in math the last few years has been a struggle against the program,'' Jim said recently. ''Whatever I've achieved, I've achieved in spite of it. Kids do not do better learning math themselves. There's a reason we go to school, which is that there's someone smarter than us with something to teach us.''
 Such experiences and emotions have burst into public discussion and no small amount of rancor in the last eight months in Penfield. This community of 35,000 has become one of the most obvious fronts in the nationwide math wars, which have flared from California to Pittsburgh to the former District 2 on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, pitting progressives against traditionalists, with nothing less than America's educational and economic competitiveness at stake.
 In these places and others, groups of parents have condemned constructivist math for playing down such basic computational tools as borrowing, carrying, place value, algorithms, multiplication tables and long division, while often introducing calculators into the classroom as early as first or second grade. Such criticism has run headlong into the celebration of constructivism by the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics and such leading teacher-training institutions as the Bank Street College of Education.
 The strife has taken on a particular intensity here in Penfield, perhaps, because the town includes an unusually large share of engineers and scientists, because of the proximity of companies like Xerox, Kodak and Bausch & Lomb. Skilled themselves in math, they have refused to accept the premise that innovation means improvement, and in their own households they have seen evidence to the contrary.
 FOR Joe Hoover, the epiphany came two years ago when he took his daughter, Kathryn, then in sixth grade, to lunch at McDonald's and realized she could not compute the correct change for their meal from a $20 bill.
 For Claudia Lioy, it was seeing her daughter, Iris, then in third grade, plodding through a multiplication problem by counting 23 groups of four apples. When Mrs. Lioy pleaded with Iris's teacher simply to show the class a times table, the teacher replied, ''But that's drill-and-kill.'' 
 For Ben Lee, it was having his teenage daughter, Olivia trying to answer probability problems by a method called ''guess and check'' -- until he pulled out his own 10th-grade math book to instruct her about the appropriate formula.
 ''I don't mind having kids appreciate what they learn,'' said Mr. Lee, an engineer who now works as a purchasing agent for Kodak. ''But it's crazy to make a kid spend a night trying to solve a problem with these rudimentary and feeble tools.''
 By last spring, these parents had discovered one another and their common exasperation with constructivist math. Jim Munch's father, Bill, a software developer at Kodak, drew up a petition asking the Penfield schools to offer pupils the option of taking traditional math. Nearly 700 residents signed it. Last June, the Board of Education turned down the request.
 Not surprising, school officials here paint a wildly different picture of the new math curriculum than do the critical parents. They point to a slip in Penfield's scores on standardized math tests and Regents exams in the late 1990's as a catalyst for changing the program. They also note that since the introduction of the constructivist curriculums -- Investigations for elementary school, Connected Math for junior high, Core Plus for high school -- those scores have risen gradually but steadily. 
 In a broad sense, Penfield can be a hard place to make the indictment against constructivism stick. The high school sends 90 percent of its graduates to two-year or four-year colleges, and the mean SAT score stands at 1117 (with 562 on math). In the battle of anecdotes, school officials assembled their own array of parents to praise the new curriculum when this columnist visited Penfield last week.
 Susan Gray, the superintendent, attributed the criticism of the math program to ''helicopter parents'' who are accustomed to being deeply involved in all aspects of their children's lives. ''Because the pedagogy has changed, the parents who knew the old ways didn't know how to help their children,'' she said. ''They didn't have the knowledge and skills to support their children at home. There's a security in memorization of math facts, and that security is gone now.''
 Yet many of the dissident parents have extensive math backgrounds and thus the ability to criticize the curriculum. It is also true that most of them tolerated the constructivist program for its first several years, until bitter experience drove them into rebellion.
 Mary Rapp, the assistant superintendent, acknowledged the legitimacy of some complaints. In response, she said, Penfield has begun supplementing the constructivist classes with lessons in computation. Nearly 300 pupils in the district are now receiving remedial classes. A group of teachers worked last summer to revise the math syllabus in the high school in a somewhat more conventional direction. As a result, the district has had to petition the state for a postponement in the Math A Regents exam, from early 2006 to June.
 Still, in the math wars, tweaking around the edges does not settle the issue. The dispute is fundamental. To its advocates, constructivist math applies the subject to the real world, builds critical thinking skills and rescues classes from numbing repetition.
 But to those parents in Penfield and elsewhere -- who have children in junior high unable to do long division or multiply two-column numbers, who pay for private tutors or sessions at traditionalist learning centers like Kumon, who wonder why there are so many calculators and so few textbooks -- the words of a recent graduate to the Board of Education ring tragically true.
 ''My biggest fear about going to college,'' Samantha Meek said at a meeting last spring, ''is attending introductory math courses.
 ''How am I going to be able to explain to my professors that I do not understand what they are talking about, that I do not have the same math background as the rest of the students, and that I cannot do mental math and can barely do it with pencil and paper?''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHER EDUCATION (88%); CALCULUS (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); ENGINEERING (75%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



173 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: A WATERSHED; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Buffalo Elects First Black Mayor, Who Claims Mandate

BYLINE: By DAVID STABA

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
With strong support in virtually every neighborhood, State Senator Byron W. Brown swept to a historic election victory on Tuesday as the first black mayor of this economically troubled city, New York's second-largest.
 According to unofficial returns, with 98 percent of election districts reporting, Mr. Brown, a Democrat, received 64 percent of the vote, to 27 percent for the Republican candidate, Kevin J. Helfer. Judith S. Einach of the Green Party tallied 5 percent, while Charles J. Flynn of the Independence Party had 4 percent.
''I'm prepared to use better management, new ideas and an optimistic attitude to turn our city around,'' Mr. Brown, 46, said in as he declared victory in front of a cheering crowd of supporters in the ballroom of the Hyatt Regency hotel in downtown Buffalo. ''I am so thankful to the voters of Buffalo, in every section of the city, for the mandate that they have given us tonight.'' 
 Mr. Brown will become the city's 58th mayor, but only the third in nearly three decades, when he is sworn in on Jan. 1. Mayor Anthony M. Masiello, first elected in 1993, announced in April that he would not seek a fourth four-year term. Mr. Masiello succeeded James D. Griffin, who retired after 16 years in office.
 In a city where only 12 percent of the registered voters are Republicans, Mr. Brown, who enjoyed a fund-raising advantage of roughly three to one, entered the campaign's final days with a commanding lead in the polls. Among 501 likely voters surveyed by Zogby International of Utica late last week, 61 percent favored Mr. Brown, compared with 24 percent for Mr. Helfer.
 Mr. Brown was the seventh black candidate to seek the mayor's office on a major-party line in the city's 173-year history. He and his supporters both downplayed the role of race in the campaign.
 ''It doesn't make a difference if he's black or white,'' said Ken Quinniey, a black supporter passing out campaign literature while Mr. Brown shook hands and talked to commuters earlier in the day at a subway station in a predominately black neighborhood. ''It makes a difference if the leadership is there.'' According to the 2000 Census, Buffalo's population is just under 300,000, of which 38 percent black.
 When asked about the significance of being the first black candidate to win, Mr. Brown smiled.
 ''My goal is to be the best mayor the city of Buffalo has ever seen,'' he said.
 Mr. Brown and Mr. Helfer agreed that Buffalo's top priority was converting the state-imposed financial oversight board, which has veto power over major spending and contracts with municipal employees' unions, into a ''softer'' advisory body, a goal that could be accomplished by meeting several fiscal benchmarks, including passing three consecutive balanced budgets without borrowing.
 The city's control board has been in place since 2003. A budget deficit of more than $100 million led the state to create an advisory board for the government of Erie County, which includes Buffalo, earlier this year.
 ''It's very hard to market Buffalo when you have not one control board, but two,'' Mr. Helfer said in a telephone interview from his campaign headquarters. Mr. Brown said the tenor of the campaign was tough, but generally clean. 
 ''I'd say we tried to keep our campaign completely clean and positive,'' Mr. Brown said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: State Senator Byron W. Brown, flanked by his wife, Michelle, and son, Byron III, took note of supporters after his acceptance speech last night. He will become Buffalo's first black mayor when he is sworn in Jan. 1. (Photo by Don Heupel/The Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VETO (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); RACE & RACISM (73%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); CENSUS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ZOGBY INTERNATIONAL INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTICA, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



174 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1727 words

HEADLINE: Mountains of Corn and a Sea of Farm Subsidies

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: RALSTON, Iowa, Nov. 4 

 BODY:
As Iowa finishes harvesting its second-largest corn crop in history, Roger Fray is racing to cope with the most visible challenge arising from the United States' ballooning farm subsidy program: the mega-corn pile.
 Soaring more than 60 feet high and spreading a football field wide, the mound of corn behind the headquarters of West Central Cooperative here resembles a little yellow ski hill. ''There is no engineering class that teaches you how to cover a pile like this,'' Mr. Fray, the company's executive vice president for grain marketing, said from the adjacent road. ''This is country creativity.''
At 2.7 million bushels, the giant pile illustrates the explosive growth in corn production by American farmers in recent years, which this year is estimated to reach a nationwide total of at least 10.9 billion bushels, second only to last year's 11.8 billion bushels. 
 But this season's bumper crop is too much of a good thing, underscoring what critics call a paradox at the heart of the government farm subsidy program: America's efficient farmers may be encouraged to produce far more than the country can use, depressing prices and raising subsidy payments. In other words, because the government wants to help America's farmers, it essentially ends up paying them both when they produce too much and when their crop prices are too low. 
 Indeed, this season's huge volumes weigh heavily on farmers, who already have suffered a string of misfortunes: a large overhang of grain from last year, coupled with soaring energy costs and two Gulf Coast hurricanes that stymied transportation, and a severe drought that distorted prices. Together, these events have conspired to depress corn prices and potentially make this the most expensive harvest ever for the federal government.
 Even as the Bush administration tries to persuade member nations of the World Trade Organization that it is serious about trimming agricultural subsidies, federal spending on farm payments is closing in on the record of $22.9 billion set in 2000, when the Asian financial crisis caused American exports to fall and crop prices to sink, pushing the Midwest farm belt into recession. 
 If export sales stay weak, this year's subsidies could hit a new record. Just last week the United States Agriculture Department raised its projection of payments to farmers by $1.3 billion, to $22.7 billion. In 2004, the subsidies were only $13.3 billion.
 In response to pressure, the Bush administration said last month that the United States was prepared to cut its most trade-distorting farm subsidies by 60 percent over five years. The world's poor nations, which tend to be heavily dependent on agriculture, complain that American and European Union farm subsidies spur growers to produce gluts that depress crop prices throughout the world.
 The Agriculture Department's $1.3 billion revision comes primarily from higher loan-deficiency payments, which are now estimated to total $6.2 billion, said Keith Collins, the Agriculture Department's chief economist. Such payments are meant to cushion the blow for farmers who borrow money to raise crops but then have to sell them in the market for less than the outstanding loan. 
 Most of that money will flow to corn growers. Based on loan-deficiency rates that have recently topped 50 cents a bushel, the government probably will pay corn farmers about $4.5 billion this year in that subsidy category alone, said Bob Young, the chief economist for the American Farm Bureau Federation.
 For critics of the American subsidy system, the record corn production highlights the tenuous assumptions underlying the program. Farmers are encouraged to produce as much as they can with the idea that greater exports will soak up the excess production. More recently, there are high hopes for using corn to produce ethanol for gasoline, but the infrastructure to produce large amounts of ethanol will take time. 
 But the huge volumes in recent years have not been matched by greater demand for American corn, and the woes created by two big harvests, along with the stifling effect of Hurricane Katrina on the transport of grains, have kept exports in check, analysts and grain traders said. 
 ''We are still in a condition of grossly overproducing for what the market can pay, at least what the market can pay that is acceptable to our corn producers,'' said Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, an environmental research group based in Washington that has been critical of farm subsidies. ''We can't make up the difference in the export market, and the taxpayers are on the hook.''
 The government spent $41.9 billion on corn subsidies from 1995 to 2004, according to the Environmental Working Group.
 So far, current and future corn shipments of 550 million bushels are running 11 percent behind last year's level of 640 million bushels in early November, according to government figures. But lately foreign and domestic buyers, sensing fire-sale conditions, have started to snap up corn at historically cheap prices, said Steve Bruce, a grain trader with Man Financial in Chicago. ''We have reached the saturation point where the grain elevator managers have said we just have to sell the stuff,'' he said.
 With corn spilling out everywhere, the Agriculture Department predicted last month that American corn growers would receive an average of $1.85 a bushel for their new corn, which would be the lowest price since the late 1990's. The government is expected to release new estimates for crop production and exports on Thursday.
 Storm damage and transportation bottlenecks sharply raised costs this year for producers, so that Midwest farmers had a tough time this fall finding buyers. 
 Hurricane Katrina in late August damaged grain-exporting operations around New Orleans. Some 60 percent of corn and soybeans are normally exported through that city's port. A shortage of river barges and damage to the ports created domestic bottlenecks and added to internal freight costs, eating into farmers' profits and briefly making American crops less competitive than those of some foreign competitors. Barge rates have tripled in some places.
 Higher costs for gasoline and diesel also led railways and trucking firms to increase their rates to haul the crops, in some cases by four to six times the normal rates. The rail system, in particular, was already strained coming into the harvest season, and grain merchants have struggled at times to find available rail cars. In Iowa, some grain elevators simply closed down when they got too full. For farmers in recent weeks, the morning harvest call was to ''call two or three elevators and see which ones were open,'' Mr. Fray said.
 To be sure, the last two years of bumper harvests have shown how good American farmers have gotten at producing corn. More drought-resistant varieties, improved pesticides and more efficient farming practices have all contributed to higher yields, farmers and grain managers said.
 Nearly perfect growing conditions helped produce last year's record crop. But this year the biggest surprise came in Illinois, which despite suffering its worst drought since 1988, still managed to produce a large crop. The drought made many farmers hesitant to sell their corn at depressed prices, decisions that worsened what became an excessive surplus. ''The big lesson this fall is don't believe the farmers when they say they don't have a crop,'' said Jeff Hainline, a commodities broker at Advance Trading in Bloomington, Ill.
 Government incentives to produce flat-out have also helped make the large corn harvests possible. Farmers are hardly shy about exploiting the government safety net provided by guaranteed loan-deficiency payments. ''Everybody leans on the L.D.P.'s as much as they can,'' said Ash Kading, a farmer in western Iowa who was harvesting his last few rows of corn late last week. ''It is like opening up the federal Treasury. There were quite a few people this year that wish corn prices would go to zero because they would have a bigger L.D.P.''
 While farmers and grain merchants like Mr. Fray expect even more corn to be planted next year, some traders believe that higher natural gas prices will cause farmers to grow less corn -- natural gas is used to make fertilizer, pesticides and herbicides. ''With higher energy costs you will see more wheat acres and soybean acres,'' Mr. Bruce said.
 This year grain piles are everywhere across Iowa and parts of Illinois, the two biggest corn-producing states. In Iowa, the amount of grain being stored on the ground for lack of storage is averaging more than 19 percent, its highest level in at least 25 years, Mr. Fray said, citing private industry data.
 Lately the giant piles have become the butt of jokes in farm country. They were spoofed in a fake picture, widely e-mailed, that showed a skier airborne atop West Central's biggest pile, with the caption that said ''one thing you can do with a 3-million-bushel pile of harvested corn: Ski Iowa.''
 Mr. Fray smiles when he recalls the fake picture. But he has hardly become attached to his largest corn creation. West Central, which markets corn for more than 8,000 farmers, is planning to dismantle the 2.7-million-bushel pile before year-end to avoid rains that could ruin the corn, he said. Last year the company built a similar-size pile and gambled on the weather, only to suffer the misfortune of repeated late-season rains that badly damaged the quality of the corn, trimming the cooperative's profit by 34 percent, to $4.8 million.
 This year, with corn bursting out of storage bins and lots of dry weather, West Central put 13.4 million bushels on the ground in 11 piles; 12.8 million bushels were left outside last year. But with customers moaning about a possible repeat of last year, the co-op tried to plan ahead this time, spending $4.5 million to build additional storage and buy giant tarps to cover some of the piles. As of last week, the co-op had covered half of the corn. 
 The 2.7-million-bushel pile, however, is too big to cover, since there are no walls to tie a tarp to. For that one, the company can only pray for dry conditions while it tries to find buyers for the corn. ''So far,'' Mr. Fray said, ''we have dodged a bullet.''
 Failing that, West Central could always build a ski lift on the hill.


GRAPHIC: Photos: About 2.7 million bushels of corn is piled 60 feet high on the ground beside full elevators at an agricultural cooperative in Ralston, Iowa. (Photo by Mark Kegans for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Trucks wait to unload corn at elevators in Templeton, Iowa. The current system encourages the production of more than the country can use. (Photo by Mark Kegans for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Too Much Corn''Corn production has significantly outstripped consumption in recent years. That has driven down prices and led to higher government subsidies to farmers.Graphs track the following since 1995:SUPPLY (PRODUCTION and STOCKS*)CONSUMPTION ([FOOD, INDUSTRY, SEEDS], ANIMAL FEED, EXPORTS)Graph tracks SUBSIDIES since 1995.*Includes a small amount of imports.(Sources by Agriculture Department
 Environmental Working Group)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); CROP PRODUCTION (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (85%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CORN MARKETS (78%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); DROUGHT (73%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (73%); SKIING (71%); EXPORT PRICES (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); WEATHER (63%); EUROPEAN UNION (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WEST CENTRAL COOPERATIVE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS115116 FARM MANAGEMENT SERVICES (57%); NAICS115114 POSTHARVEST CROP ACTIVITIES (EXCEPT COTTON GINNING) (57%); SIC5153 GRAIN & FIELD BEANS (57%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (57%); SIC0762 FARM MANAGEMENT SERVICES (57%); SIC0723 CROP PREPARATION SERVICES FOR MARKET, EXCEPT COTTON GINNING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



175 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: How to Look at China

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN. 
Maureen Dowd is on a book tour.

DATELINE: TIGER LEAPING GORGE, China 

 BODY:
My friend Nayan Chanda, the editor of YaleGlobal magazine and a longtime reporter in Asia, recently shared with me a conversation he'd had with an Asian diplomat regarding India and China: India, he said, always looks as if it is boiling on the surface, but underneath it is very stable because of a 50-year-old democratic foundation. China looks very stable on the surface, but underneath it is actually boiling -- an overheated economy under a tightly sealed political lid.
 There is a lot to that, but what's most interesting is where China is boiling today. Ever since the student uprising in 1989, we in America have tended to look at China through the prism of Tiananmen, thinking that the main drama there is a struggle pitting freedom-seeking students and intellectuals against a hard-line Communist Party. There is still truth in that perspective, but it is not the most revealing lens through which to look at China anymore. A lot of those Tiananmen students have gotten M.B.A.'s, dropped out of politics and gone to work for multinationals. 
Today, the most relevant fault line in China is Tiger Leaping Gorge, a spectacular geological site in Western China along the Yangtze River, and one of the deepest gorges in the world. With its thunderous rushing waters cutting through mountains, it is certainly one of the most beautiful I have ever seen. I visited there with my camera, but I also visited with some local villagers with my notebook. 
 These farmers are angry that plans are being made to dam the Yangtze River, flood Tiger Leaping Gorge and force the relocation of thousands of farmers and villagers. And they are getting vocal, learning about their legal options and pressing local officials to reconsider how the dam will be built. Getting political is not a hobby for these farmers. It is a necessity.
 And similar dramas of necessity are being played out all over the Chinese countryside today by villagers who know that they are not fully participating in China's economic growth, but are being told that if they want to, they must accept dams or factories that will destroy their environment.
 They don't like this deal, but China's rigid political system leaves these farmers, who are still the majority in China today, with few legal options for fighting it. That helps explain why China's official media reported that in 1993 some 10,000 incidents of social unrest took place in China. Last year there were 74,000.
 This is the political lens to watch China through today. How China's ruling Communist Party manages the environmental, social, economic and political tensions converging on such places as Tiger Leaping Gorge -- not Tiananmen Square -- will be the most important story determining China's near-term political stability.
 Listen to China's deputy minister of the environment, Pan Yue, in his stunning March 7 interview with Der Spiegel: ''Our raw materials are scarce, we don't have enough land, and our population is constantly growing. Currently, there are 1.3 billion people living in China; that's twice as many as 50 years ago. In 2020, there will be 1.5 billion people in China. Cities are growing, but desert areas are expanding at the same time; habitable and usable land has been halved over the past 50 years. [China's G.D.P. miracle] will end soon because the environment can no longer keep pace. Half of the water in our seven largest rivers is completely useless. One-third of the urban population is breathing polluted air. 
 ''We are convinced that a prospering economy automatically goes hand in hand with political stability. And I think that's a major blunder. If the gap between the poor and the rich widens, then regions within China and the society as a whole will become unstable. If our democracy and our legal system lag behind the overall economic development, various groups in the population won't be able to protect their own interests.''
 The drama of Tiger Leaping Gorge is not as easy to follow as a single man standing in front of a tank in Tiananmen. It involves the complex interactions among the Chinese countryside, the N.G.O.'s and local organizations working there, the developers looking to build there, and a still heavy-handed Communist Party. 
 But somewhere in this swirl of forces is where China's future stability is going to be shaped -- or not. No wonder China's leaders have made building a ''harmonious society'' central to their next five-year plan. Wish them well, because how they do will affect everything from the air you breathe to the clothes you wear and the interest on your mortgage. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (70%); RIVERS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (66%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (66%); RELOCATIONS (66%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: YANGTZE RIVER (92%) CHINA (99%); INDIA (94%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



176 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: Thomas P. Ronan, 96, Times Correspondent

 BODY:
Thomas P. Ronan, a former foreign correspondent for The New York Times, died on Oct. 31 in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 96. 
 His daughter Catherine confirmed the death.
Mr. Ronan was on the staff of The Times from 1942 until his retirement in 1978. From 1953 to 1962, he was a reporter in the paper's London bureau, covering economics, politics, government and diplomacy.
 Thomas Patrick Ronan was born in New York City on Dec. 10, 1908, and received an undergraduate degree from Fordham University in 1931. He began his journalism career as a reporter for The City News Association, a news agency later absorbed by The Associated Press.
 In the spring of 1942, Mr. Ronan went to work at The Times, where he was assigned to the radio broadcast desk. That fall, he entered the Army, serving in India and China during World War II. After the war, he returned to the paper as a metropolitan reporter.
 After his London assignment, Mr. Ronan rejoined the metropolitan staff of The Times. In May 1965, he was the first to report that Representative John V. Lindsay had decided to run for mayor. Lindsay defeated Abraham D. Beame in November of that year. 
 In addition to his daughter Catherine, of Los Angeles, Mr. Ronan is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Patricia Clow; another daughter, Laura, of Dresden, Maine; a son, Stephen, of Cambridge, Mass.; and two grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); MAYORS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



177 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Get French or Die Trying

BYLINE: By Olivier Roy. 
Olivier Roy, a professor at the School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences, is the author of ''Globalized Islam.''

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
THE rioting in Paris and other French cities has led to a lot of interpretations and comments, most of them irrelevant. Many see the violence as religiously motivated, the inevitable result of unchecked immigration from Muslim countries; for others the rioters are simply acting out of vengeance at being denied their cultural heritage or a fair share in French society. But the reality is that there is nothing particularly Muslim, or even French, about the violence. Rather, we are witnessing the temporary rising up of one small part of a Western underclass culture that reaches from Paris to London to Los Angeles and beyond. 
 To understand why this is so, consider two solid facts we do have on the riots. First, this is a youth (and male) uprising. The rioters are generally 12 to 25 years old, and roughly half of those arrested are under 18. The adults keep away from the demonstrations: in fact, they are the first victims (it is their cars, after all, that are burning) and they want security and social services to be restored. 
 Yet older residents also resent what they see as the unnecessary brutality of the police toward the rioters, the merry-go-round of officials making promises that they know will be quickly forgotten, and the demonization of their communities by the news media. Second, the riots are geographically and socially very circumscribed: all are occurring in about 100 suburbs, or more precisely destitute neighborhoods known here as ''cites,'' ''quartiers'' or ''banlieues.'' There has long been a strong sense of territorial identity among the young people in these neighborhoods, who have tended to coalesce in loose gangs. The different gangs, often involved in petty delinquency, have typically been reluctant to stroll outside their territories and have vigilantly kept strangers away, be they rival gangs, police officers, firefighters or journalists. 
 Now, these gangs are for the most part burning their own neighborhoods and seem little interested in extending the rampage to more fashionable areas. They express simmering anger fueled by unemployment and racism. The lesson, then, is that while these riots originate in areas largely populated by immigrants of Islamic heritage, they have little to do with the wrath of a Muslim community. 
 France has a huge Muslim population living outside these neighborhoods -- many of them, people who left them as soon as they could afford it -- and they don't identify with the rioters at all. Even within the violent areas, one's local identity (sense of belonging to a particular neighborhood) prevails over larger ethnic and religious affiliation. Most of the rioters are from the second generation of immigrants, they have French citizenship, and they see themselves more as part of a modern Western urban subculture than of any Arab or African heritage. 
 Just look at the newspaper photographs: the young men wear the same hooded sweatshirts, listen to similar music and use slang in the same way as their counterparts in Los Angeles or Washington. (It is no accident that in French-dubbed versions of Hollywood films, African-American characters usually speak with the accent heard in the Paris banlieues). 
 Nobody should be surprised that efforts by the government to find ''community leaders'' have had little success. There are no leaders in these areas for a very simple reason: there is no community in the neighborhoods. Traditional parental control has disappeared and many Muslim families are headed by a single parent. Elders, imams and social workers have lost control. Paradoxically, the youths themselves are often the providers of local social rules, based on aggressive manhood, control of the streets, defense of a territory. Americans (and critics of America in Europe) may see in these riots echoes of the black separatism that fueled the violence in Harlem and Watts in the 1960's. But the French youths are not fighting to be recognized as a minority group, either ethnic or religious; they want to be accepted as full citizens. They have believed in the French model (individual integration through citizenship) but feel cheated because of their social and economic exclusion. Hence they destroy what they see as the tools of failed social promotion: schools, social welfare offices, gymnasiums. Disappointment leads to nihilism. For many, fighting the police is some sort of a game, and a rite of passage.
 Contrary to the calls of many liberals, increased emphasis on multiculturalism and respect for other cultures in France is not the answer: this angry young population is highly deculturalized and individualized. There is no reference to Palestine or Iraq in these riots. Although these suburbs have been a recruiting field for jihadists, the fundamentalists are conspicuously absent from the violence. Muslim extremists don't share the youth agenda (from drug dealing to nightclub partying), and the youngsters reject any kind of leadership.
 So what is to be done? The politicians have offered the predictable: curfews, platitudes about respect, vague promises of economic aid. But with France having entered its presidential election cycle, any hope for long-term rethinking is misplaced. In the end, we are dealing here with problems found by any culture in which inequities and cultural differences come in conflict with high ideals. Americans, for their part, should take little pleasure in France's agony -- the struggle to integrate an angry underclass is one shared across the Western world.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Raymond Verdaguer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); GANGS (86%); RELIGION (77%); JOURNALISM (70%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (65%); WRITERS (62%); RACE & RACISM (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



178 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: An Awkward Coexistence On Campus 

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS. 
E-mail: selenasports@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT is worth a take-home exam to discover how the brains behind higher education have lost their minds in the pursuit of football superiority.
 Were they hypnotized by the numbing metronome of hook 'em Horns hand signals or snake-charmed by the Super Bowl rings on the fingers of Charlie Weis? Were they paid off by boosters who buy their socks and yachts only in team colors or simply sucked into a devious three-legged race to be one of two teams in the B.C.S. title game?
 All of the above has conspired to lead university caretakers into establishing the $3 million club for college coaches. After Notre Dame handed a 10-year extension to Weis last week reportedly worth $30 to $40 million, the N.C.A.A. reached a new level in fiscal lunacy. 
 Where is intelligent life on campus? At the University of Texas, there is a cosmic star, but he is not named Mack Brown. He is called Big Steve by Texas students and ponders the energy of empty space, but he doesn't dash through gaping holes opened by the offensive line.
 Steven Weinberg is a Texas physics professor who grew up in the Bronx, taught at Harvard and won the Nobel Prize in 1979 before being wooed to Texas three years later in one of the university's most famous hires this side of Darrell Royal.
 He is the best-selling author of ''The First Three Minutes'' -- a chronicle of life after the Big Bang -- but that doesn't make him an outsider in a state ribboned by Christian conservatism.
 What might alienate some football-possessed Texans -- who have B.C.S. and U.S.C. doing an alphabet polka in their heads -- is Weinberg's logical look at the way studies and sports make for an awkward coexistence on campus.
 ''I think it's hard to say that our day-to-day work in research and teaching is hurt by the football program, but at the same time, I have to say I find it somewhat embarrassing,'' Weinberg said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''I love this university; and the universities with which I'd like to have us compared are places like Harvard and M.I.T., not the ones at the top of B.C.S. rankings.''
 This protractor across the bow is dead on. But boosters don't line up to buy No. 1 foam fingers to salute overachieving mathletes. Instead many donate tax-deductible millions into boutique-style giving: athletics only, please.
 ''It's argued that football makes money for the university and the large sums paid for coaches and facilities are more than earned back by ticket sales and television rights,'' Weinberg said. ''I'm a little skeptical.''
 The skepticism is valid. Odd how university officials happily itemize what their football programs make but rarely what they spend. How much to house a 90-man roster in five-star hotels the night before a game? Sometimes, as has been the case at the University of Colorado, it's a home game. 
 Research by the economist Andrew Zimbalist and others have pointed out the cash-cow myth at colleges locked in an arms race fueled by unsustainable expectations of winning.
 On the Longhorn Foundation's Web site, you can almost hear a sense of desperation usually found in telethon hosts: ''Ticket sales, television revenue and advertising income account for less than 50 percent of needed operating funds for U.T. athletics. Private support is very important in order to sustain the future of the 20-sport men's and women's programs.''
 Somehow, Mack Brown's $2.1 million salary still gets paid. As The Austin-American Statesman has reported, Weinberg is the university's highest-paid faculty member, at around $400,000 by most accounts. Upon his arrival, he was rumored to have had his salary contractually linked to that of the head football coach. If only, he says. 
 ''I don't mind comparing my salary with theirs,'' Weinberg said. ''After all, I have tenure and they don't. So that's not what bothers me. What bothers me is the professionalization that it implies.''
 The corporate atmosphere of college football has perverted the purpose of educational institutions. It has twisted the image of school pride, and warped the meaning of a university's reputation, as Weinberg discovered during a commencement speech he gave several years ago. As he recounted: ''I said something along these lines: 'After all, some years from now, after you've graduated and you tell people you graduated from the University of Texas at Austin, part of your reputation will be based on our reputation. People at that point really won't care how well U.T. is doing in the Big 12.'
 ''And I got sort of an intake of breath collectively.''
 Gasp, the physicist dared to diminish football's importance to the size of a particle. Scale is the issue, though. How big should being No. 1 at football be to an institution of higher learning? 
 It shouldn't take a genius to tell us. But even Weinberg has to admit there is a certain siren's song in the B.C.S. race. Yes, he will be watching to see if No. 2 Texas can land in the title game. 
 ''I'm only human,'' Weinberg said with a laugh. ''Although I disapprove of the whole thing, as long as we're doing it, it's sort of nice to do it well. But I wish we weren't doing it.''
 At least we know intelligent life exists on campus -- even if it's not running the athletic department.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Weinberg (Photo by Frank Curry)(pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); CELEBRITIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); RANKINGS (66%); WRITERS (65%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); BESTSELLERS (64%); CONSERVATISM (63%); TICKET SALES (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



179 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Advisory Commission Urges Congress to Get Tough on China Trade

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
A bipartisan advisory group plans to deliver a report to Congress today that is sharply critical of China's trade practices and endorses sanctions including a tariff on imports unless Beijing takes forceful steps to allow its currency to move in line with market forces. 
 The 222-page report, by the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission, has more than 50 recommendations, including urging closer cooperation with China on coal-related programs intended to help wean both nations from their dependence on imported oil. 
But the overall portrait is of growing friction, especially on trade issues. The report comes at a time when Congress is increasingly ready to take action against China, as that country's rapid economic ascent and its fast-growing trade surplus with the United States stir anxiety that jobs and wealth are being lost, perhaps unfairly.
 The commission's report could strengthen the hand of those in Congress who favor a tough stance on China matters. Congress holds the constitutional power to regulate foreign commerce, but it tends to become most involved when trade becomes a heated political issue. That happened in the 1980's when Japan's trade surplus with the United States surged, and it seems to be happening now with China.
 Last summer, for example, the state-controlled China National Offshore Oil Corporation backed away from a bidding contest with Chevron to acquire an American oil company, Unocal, after fierce opposition in Congress.
 ''There is a real urgency in Congress to get progress on issues with China,'' said C. Richard D'Amato, chairman of the United States-China commission and formerly a senior staff member for Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia. ''What we'd like to see is legislative actions that get at pieces of this problem.''
 The commission report said Congress should consider ''an immediate, across-the-board tariff on Chinese imports,'' unless China moves quickly to allow its currency, the yuan, to rise in value by at least 25 percent against the dollar or a trade-weighted basket of currencies.
 The recommendation amounts to an endorsement of the approach taken in a bill once sponsored by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Senator Lindsey O. Graham, Republican of South Carolina. The bill called for a 27.5 percent tariff on Chinese imports unless China let its currency float more freely. 
 The Bush administration, which has adamantly opposed the legislation, was taken aback last spring when 67 senators voted against a motion to kill the bill.
 Senators Schumer and Graham withdrew the bill after assurances by John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary, and Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, that China would soon move to let its currency fluctuate.
 In July, China made a modest step toward adopting a more flexible currency policy. But the change has resulted in an appreciation of the yuan of only about 2 percent against the dollar.
 Mr. Schumer and Mr. Graham met again last week with the Treasury secretary and the Fed chairman. Afterward, the senators issued a brief statement saying that the meeting had been ''very productive'' and that they were ''hopeful'' progress would be made soon. The senators have held out the option of introducing their bill again.
 The commission seems to regard an import tariff law as a powerful negotiating weapon in the American trade arsenal instead of a policy goal in itself. 
 ''It is a blunt instrument, but one intended to achieve a change in Chinese policy,'' said Michael R. Wessel, a commission member who was a staff lawyer for Richard A Gephardt when he was a Democratic representative from Missouri. ''And it would be a blunt instrument that uses our market leverage,'' Mr. Wessel said, noting that a third of Chinese exports go to the United States, while China buys only 4 percent of American exports.
 The United States-China commission, created by Congress in 2000, has 12 members. One of them, William A. Reinsch, dissented from the report's recommendations. 
 ''It does a good job of defining the difficult issues we face with China, but its standard solution is to beat Chinese over the head until they comply,'' said Mr. Reinsch, who is president of the National Foreign Trade Council and was an under secretary of commerce under President Bill Clinton. ''That approach runs the risk of undoing our policy of engagement with China, which has been the policy of the last five administrations.'' 
 The commission's other recommendations include stepping up the pressure on China for what critics regard as its lack of enforcement of international laws governing intellectual property theft, and making changes in the administration task force that monitors foreign investment in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (67%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



180 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Big Builder Sees Slower Home Sales

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and DAVID LEONHARDT; Motoko Rich contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
The nation's largest maker of luxury homes, Toll Brothers, said yesterday that soaring home prices appeared to have ended. It was the latest sign that many real estate markets are slowing.
 Although the company said it expected to report a record profit for the last 12 months, it predicted that it would sell fewer homes over the next year than it had forecast and would make less money than previously anticipated. High gas prices and the recent hurricanes seem to have rattled consumers, causing some to delay purchases of houses, company executives said. Also, some local governments appear to be holding back on construction permits, to slow new building.
 Shares of Toll Brothers fell after yesterday's announcement and ended the day down 14 percent, at $33.91. The news dragged the shares of other home builders lower, and the Bloomberg United States home builders index fell 7 percent yesterday. 
 ''The price increases pre-Katrina were at warp speed, and since Katrina, instead of going up $5,000 or $10,000 every week or two, we have been limited to no price increases or very limited price increases,'' Robert I. Toll, the company's chief executive, said in a conference call yesterday. The number of investors buying condominiums and houses in the hope of turning a quick profit also seems to have plunged, he said in an interview last week. ''The true speculator is gone from the market,'' Mr. Toll said.
 Certain markets appear to be losing steam faster than others, Mr. Toll said. Washington, Chicago and Northern California were slowing from high levels of activity, while Boston, Denver and the west coast of Florida were still hot markets for the company. Las Vegas, which has experienced a huge condo building boom, slowed down ''ever so slightly'' in July and appears to be staying at that level, he added.
 The company, whose homes sell at an average price of $679,000 and whose typical buyer has an annual family income of more than $100,000, emphasized that it still expected a happy ending for the long housing boom. 
 Home prices, the company said, are expected to continue rising, but at historical averages and not at the rapid rates that they have recently in the Northeast and California. Since 1964, new-home prices have risen an average of 6 percent a year, according to the Commerce Department. Last year, they rose 13 percent.
 Even with its reduced forecast, Toll Brothers expects to sell 7 percent more homes in its current fiscal year, which began Nov. 1, than it did in the previous year. Last year, the company's revenue rose 50 percent, to $5.8 billion, according to preliminary figures released yesterday. The company will disclose detailed financial results and projections for 2006 on Dec. 8. 
 In many of the nation's hottest real estate markets, houses are taking much longer to sell than they once did, and some agents are talking about a slowdown in attendance at open houses. In September, there was a 4.7-month supply of already- built homes on the market, up from 4.2 months a year ago, according to the National Association of Realtors. 
 Mr. Toll said last week that in some markets, the company was starting to offer incentives like a luxury kitchen at no extra cost to the buyer. 
 J. Patrick Lashinsky, a senior vice president at ZipRealty, a brokerage firm with offices in 15 metropolitan areas, said, ''In a lot of our markets, we're seeing inventory levels up 20, 30, 40 percent from a few months ago.'' Some of the biggest increases were in the Phoenix, San Diego and San Francisco areas, he said, and the number of houses for sale had also risen in Atlanta, Boston and Chicago.
 For the moment, at least, prices have stopped their steep climb, with some owners reducing asking prices to attract buyers. Average sale prices traditionally drop in autumn, because home purchases slow then, but the decline appears to have been steeper than usual this year.
 Between August and September, the median sales price of already-built homes dropped 3.6 percent nationwide, to $212,000. During the same period last year, prices fell 1.6 percent, according to the National Association of Realtors.
 The median sales price for new homes fell 5.7 percent, to $215,700, from August to September, according to the Commerce Department. That compares with a 3 percent drop a year ago.
 Richard A. Smith, chairman and chief executive of Cendant's real estate business, said he, too, expected a slowing in the housing market next year, but that 2006 would still be one of the strongest years on record for home sales. ''The problem with forecasting this time of the year is, if you look at the seasonality of the business, this is always the slowest time of the year,'' Mr. Smith said.
 The slowdown appears to be linked to a steady rise in mortgage rates in recent months. The average rate on 30-year fixed mortgages was 6.31 percent last week, up from 6.15 percent the week before and 5.77 at the start of the year, according to Freddie Mac. Even with the increases, the rates are still below historical averages.
 Loan applications for purchases and refinancing fell 4.8 percent in the last week of October and were 15.2 percent lower than the same week last year, the Mortgage Bankers Association said. Loans for purchases fell 6.2 percent for the week and 11.9 percent from a year ago. 
 Some economists argue that the recent softening might be the beginning of a more severe downturn. Neither income nor population has grown quickly enough to justify the doubling of prices in some areas since 2000, these economists say. They add that rents have risen much less than home prices.
 ''There is a large psychological element behind current housing prices,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic Policy Research in Washington. ''People are willing to pay them because there is an expectation that prices will continue to rise. Once people don't have that expectation, things will change.''
 Even many analysts who are not so pessimistic say the recent increases cannot continue.
 ''Home prices have been growing so fast for so long, outstripping income growth for many years,'' said Gene Huang, the chief economist of FedEx, who keeps an eye on home prices as an overall gauge of the economy's health. ''Some kind of adjustment has to happen.''
 Per capita disposable income grew 3.6 percent over the last year, according to the Commerce Department.
 More than four out of five economic forecasters surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators said they expected existing-home price growth to slow to 5 percent by the end of 2006, from 13 percent over the last 12 months.
 ''All of a sudden, the ads in the paper show special mortgage deals, special incentives,'' Mr. Toll said last week, referring to new housing developments nationally. ''That's an absolute indicator that the market has softened.''
 Mr. Toll also attributed his company's new sales forecast to toughening local regulations, saying governments in many cities were delaying new projects to placate existing residents who want slower growth.
 ''We are building in pretty well-established territory which means it's also pretty well regulated,'' he said on the conference call. ''We have a heavier-hitting average population, and their desire is 'Not in my backyard, please slow it down.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A Toll Brothers site in Holland, Pa. The company says home prices are slowing after their recent surges. (Photo by Mike Mergen/Bloomberg News)(pg. C7)Chart: ''AVG. NATIONAL MORTGAGE RATES''Graph tracks average national mortgage rates (30-Year Fixed Rate and 5-Year Adjustable Rate) since 2004.(Source by HSH)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); WEATHER (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); BUILDING PERMITS (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ROBERT I TOLL (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



181 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: Disputes Over 9/11 Site Simmer On

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Behind the recent debate between Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg over the future of the World Trade Center site lie sharp disagreements -- over the Freedom Tower, the role of the developer Larry A. Silverstein and the pace of commercial development -- that extend well beyond the ranks of government officials.
 Even as construction of the new trade center began on Thursday, business leaders, the city's powerful real estate lobby and some civic organizations were saying privately that the first skyscraper, the symbol-laden Freedom Tower, was a bad idea: in the wrong place, too big and swaddled in an ugly 200-foot-high steel and concrete security girdle -- flaws, they said, that will make it unlikely to attract tenants.
In a separate tack, Mayor Bloomberg has suggested that the rebuilding effort would be better off without Mr. Silverstein, who controls the lease for the 16-acre site and is set to begin erecting the Freedom Tower. And Anthony R. Coscia, chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the site, has proposed splitting it between Mr. Silverstein and other developers to speed rebuilding. 
 At the same time, the mayor's call for putting up residential buildings at the site has brought rebukes from Governor Pataki, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Charles E. Schumer, who say that the future of the downtown business district requires office towers.
 The many areas of disagreement are further complicated by the fact that billions of dollars in insurance money is committed to rebuilding only office towers, and by a carefully calibrated construction schedule intended to avoid bringing Lower Manhattan to a screeching halt. The governor, who selected the master plan for the site, has long insisted that the 2.6-million-square-foot Freedom Tower is central to the rebuilding effort. It is one of five commercial towers, totaling 10 million square feet, planned for the trade center site. Retail space would be available in an underground mall at the new PATH terminal and transit center, and on the lower floors of two of the towers.
 ''There are both business and patriotic reasons to move forward with the construction of the Freedom Tower,'' John P. Cahill, the top downtown rebuilding official and the governor's chief of staff, said last week. ''The Freedom Tower is extremely important as a symbol of the city and the nation's resilience in the wake of terror.''
 Critics say it is too massive and too far away from the transit center, planned for Church Street, at a time when many corporations are wary of moving to a building that could be a target of terrorism, if only because of its name. They question the wisdom of building so much speculative commercial space in the downtown market, which, although improving, is still fragile.
 As the developer Douglas Durst put it, saying publicly what many will only whisper privately, ''If they abandoned the Freedom Tower, the market downtown would do just fine.''
 Another critic, Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, a private planning group, added that it made far more sense to build street-level stores, the underground mall and the Church Street towers, between Liberty and Dey Streets, than the Freedom Tower. The association, like the mayor, favors residential buildings because the housing market is more robust than the commercial real estate market. ''There's an increasing concern around town that the Freedom Tower is perceived as a target that will never fill with tenants,'' Mr. Yaro said. ''We strongly support commercial development on this site and in Lower Manhattan, but it's not clear that this is the place to begin.''
 In comments during the past two weeks, Mayor Bloomberg has expressed support for the Freedom Tower but has suggested that the trade center site could be rebuilt more quickly by including retail and residential towers on Church Street, rather than waiting for the commercial market to come back to life. 
 Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, said that Mr. Bloomberg favored reconsidering long-held assumptions about the site if that would lead to faster development. ''The mayor is very focused on the Church Street corridor,'' he said. ''It creates the connection between the trade center site and the rest of Manhattan.'' 
 In the past decade, an estimated 11,000 apartments have been built downtown in converted office buildings or new towers, according to the Alliance for Downtown New York. And 4,287 additional units are on the way, most of them scheduled for next year.
 The downtown commercial market is improving slowly, but the vacancy rate still hovers at 15 percent, with millions of square feet sitting empty. And the overwhelming majority of the new leases signed downtown this year were for tenants seeking less than 10,000 square feet, not the big companies that fill tall towers.
 With the Midtown commercial real estate market tightening up, state officials and real estate executives are hoping that companies will be drawn to Lower Manhattan, where rents are 33 percent cheaper than uptown, even before applying various tax breaks and other incentives.
 For downtown to remain a viable business district, they say, there must be a place to build new office towers in the future. The only place to do that, contends Mr. Cahill, the governor's chief of staff, is at the trade center site.
 The governor has said that he was ''perplexed'' by the mayor's position, because the Bloomberg administration approved plans last November to replace the 10 million square feet of office space destroyed on 9/11.
 Mr. Silverstein, who holds the lease for the land owned by the Port Authority, has said he will build the five towers one at a time, using the rent from leases in one building to finance the next. But that could take many years, and Mayor Bloomberg and others have said that the rebuilding effort would be better off with a group of developers, not just Mr. Silverstein.
 The Bloomberg administration has also suggested that some of the remaining $3.5 billion in tax-free Liberty Bonds be used for projects elsewhere in Lower Manhattan, although it has since retreated on that front.
 Mr. Silverstein has said little publicly, although executives who know him say he believes that he has merely followed the plans laid out by the governor and the mayor. It was Mr. Pataki, he told the executives, who first asked him to build the Freedom Tower.
 Aside from political considerations, work cannot begin quickly on Church Street because the foundation walls there are 18 months from completion. At the western side of the site, where the Freedom Tower is to be built, the walls are finished.
 Mr. Coscia, of the Port Authority, said it would be a mistake to abandon the Freedom Tower, but added that he was concerned about how quickly it would attract tenants. To animate the site, he has suggested pushing ahead to develop stores on Church Street and in the underground mall, as well as at the two smaller towers on Church Street, which could be anchored by Port Authority and federal government offices, and possibly a hotel, all of which were original occupants of the site.
 That would require fashioning a new arrangement with Mr. Silverstein, in which he would continue to develop the Freedom Tower and a second building. In turn, Mr. Coscia said, the Port Authority would adjust his annual rent and find other developers for the Church Street towers.
 There is a general consensus that the fifth tower site, at 130 Liberty Street, could be used for a residential tower, since it is not on the original trade center site.
 ''Our belief is that if a great amount of the site is put into development sooner rather than later, it will make it easier to lease Freedom Tower,'' Mr. Coscia said. ''We think that by building that critical mass, the likelihood of success is enhanced.''


GRAPHIC: Map of World Trade Center site: Opposing views are complicating plans for the trade center site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); LOBBYING (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); TERRORISM (63%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



182 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: MAN IN THE NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 947 words

PERSON: Jon Stevens Corzine

HEADLINE: From Capitol to State House

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
It took five years and $100 million, but Jon S. Corzine has finally captured an office with powers enough to match his aspirations.
 Mr. Corzine earned riches and fame on Wall Street, only to find himself ejected by senior executives at Goldman Sachs who considered his management style too autocratic. In 2000, he leveraged his wealth to win a seat in the United States Senate, where he quickly grew restless with the limitations imposed on a junior senator in the minority party.
Now that Mr. Corzine has been elected governor of New Jersey, his performance will put to the test his contention that a heavy dose of business acumen can rehabilitate the concept of fiscally prudent liberalism. His new office is generally considered the nation's most powerful governor's job, with vast appointment responsibilities and line-item veto power over the budget. 
 ''The question is, is he a skilled-enough politician to get his agenda through the Legislature?'' said Joseph Marbach, a political science professor at Seton Hall University. ''And when he talks about paying for his programs by growing the economy, it makes me leery; if there's a downturn, he's going to face some very difficult choices.''
 Mr. Corzine, whose understated demeanor is built on a deep sense of confidence, asserts that he will succeed as governor the same way he has always succeeded -- by sheer hard work.
 Growing up on a farm in central Illinois, Mr. Corzine was forced to extend himself at an early age, as he balanced schoolwork and sports with the demands of helping to tend his father's 120 acres. Although he describes himself as an average athlete and marginal musician, he became quarterback of the high school football team and president of the band while winning election to the student council. 
 And while many of his peers in tiny Willey's Station were content to settle close to home, Mr. Corzine aimed high. One classmate, William Summer, says Mr. Corzine wrote in his friends' high school yearbooks, ''Remember to vote for me for Pres. in '92.''
 At the University of Illinois at Champaign, he startled friends by making the basketball team as a walk-on, and being elected president of his fraternity.
 By the time he arrived on Wall Street with a master's degree in business administration from the University of Chicago, his drive and low-key persona were supplemented by his eagerness to take risks. While his tenure as chief executive and co-chairman of Goldman Sachs is usually noted for his controversial decision to take the company public, Mr. Corzine won a devoted following among his subordinates and peers for his kindly manner, penchant for wearing sweater vests and his calmness under pressure on the trading floor.
 ''Some people yelled and screamed or slammed their phone on the desk, but not Jon,'' said Janet Hanson, who worked alongside Mr. Corzine at Goldman. ''No matter how big the deal, he never flinched.''
 Since he left Wall Street for politics, Mr. Corzine's record-setting campaign spending -- $63 million in his Senate race and at least $43 million this year -- has allowed him to broadcast a dizzying pastiche of ads, yet his character remains something of a mystery. 
 During his 2000 race, he campaigned frequently with his wife, Joanne, whom he had been with since high school, and their three children. But during his first year in office, he ended their 33-year marriage, and the closing days of this year's governor's race were dominated by Ms. Corzine's biting comments about him, which were quickly turned into a commercial by Douglas R. Forrester, his Republican opponent.
 Mr. Corzine's romance with Carla Katz, the president of a union that represents thousands of state employees, also dented his image, after the revelation that he gave her a $470,000 mortgage, which he later forgave. Republicans say the relationship creates a conflict because Mr. Corzine must negotiate with Ms. Katz's union; Mr. Corzine said that the relationship was over and that it would not color his judgment.
 He also says that his life is more far more conventional than it appeared during the crucible of the bitter and intensely personal campaign. Mr. Corzine lives in an apartment in Hoboken, where he walks to restaurants and, when his grueling schedule permits, attends the occasional movie or New Jersey Nets game.
 When he moves to the governor's mansion in Princeton, Mr. Corzine, who is 58, is likely to find little time for relaxation. The state's finances are troubled, and voters are expecting an overhaul of the burdensome property tax system. In addition, public confidence in government has been eroded by corruption scandals.
 Though Mr. Corzine's fellow Democrats control both branches of the Legislature, managing his relationship with party leaders may be his most vexing challenge.
 In recent years, Mr. Corzine has given millions of dollars in political donations to the state's Democratic power brokers. But he has also feuded with a few party leaders in recent months, and his wealth will offer little help in fending off those leaders, whose organizations are fueled by patronage appointments and government contracts.
 If Mr. Corzine is too compliant, Republicans will accuse him of aiding and abetting a power structure they blame for much of the state's corruption. If he alienates the Democrats in the Legislature, Mr. Corzine's grand plans may die there.
 But some Democrats say they are convinced that Mr. Corzine, past blunders aside, will master that balancing act.
 ''He's this powerful, extremely successful, wealthy person, and it's hard to say no to people like that,'' said Raymond J. Lesniak, a powerful state senator from Union County. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUDGETS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); VETO (76%); POLITICS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); ATHLETES (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); BASKETBALL (64%); MUSIC (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

JON CORZINE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



183 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: THE WINNER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: A Mayor Unleashed, Poised to Offer an Even Broader Agenda

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
With a huge re-election victory giving Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg what his supporters described last night as a sweeping mandate, the Democrats who oppose him are girding for a sequel at City Hall that might best be called ''Bloomberg Unleashed.''
 If the past is any guide, Mr. Bloomberg will oblige them. After winning narrowly in 2001, he imposed a smoking ban in New York City bars, raised property taxes by historic proportions and risked the anger of parents by holding back struggling grammar-school students. On top of all that, he wrested control of the public school system from the Board of Education.
Given his much larger victory yesterday, mayoral aides were already talking about spending the next four years taking a firmer hold of ground zero development, building up Governors Island and pursuing the city's largest low- and middle-income housing program ever. They also spoke of taking away Albany's control of crucial city budgetary matters, while changing a power dynamic they say has been unbalanced for too long against the city. 
 And Mr. Bloomberg's close supporters are predicting that he will pursue a still grander agenda. It could include hot-button proposals like the one he dropped early on in his tenure because of political opposition: congestion pricing to reduce traffic congestion, using an electronic toll system for cars and trucks in busy business districts, if not the tolls on East River bridges that he discussed in 2001.
 ''We have every indication that the city is prepared to look closely at that,'' said Kathryn Wylde, president of the New York City Partnership and a Bloomberg supporter, who added that she had spoken recently with city officials about the creation of business-district tolls as part of a larger traffic reduction plan.
 But Edward Skyler, Mr. Bloomberg's communications director, warned against wild speculation about what the mayor would do in his second term, beyond the promises he has made this fall -- most of them to expand the initiatives of his first term and many focusing on the poor.
 ''It's an exciting time, but he's been focused on not only winning re-election but also on governing,'' Mr. Skyler said yesterday. ''Other than what he's laid out in his campaign speeches, he hasn't shared other more sweeping ideas he may have.''
 Either way, Mr. Bloomberg certainly finds himself in an exceptional new position. During his victory speech, he seemed to cast his re-election as an affirmation of some of his less popular moves: ''I always dreamed that our victory tonight could send a message that you can make the tough decisions and be re-elected, as long as they are the right decisions.''
 And one could almost hear opposing Democrats shudder when he added, ''Ain't no stopping us now.''
 Even with a narrow victory, he would have had a rare chance to pursue his whims without the usual shackles holding other politicians back. As a billionaire who financed his own campaign, he has not filled up a favor account at the Special Interest Savings and Loan. As someone who claims to have no political ambition beyond the next four years, he does not have to govern with an eye on poll numbers.
 Now, with the election out of the way and a mighty wind of voter support at his back, Mr. Bloomberg would seem to have new license to perform as the ultimate nonpolitician and take on issues that no elected official with any sense of political self-preservation would touch.
 Expectations are already high. 
 ''What does he do in the next four years?'' said William B. Eimicke, a professor of public administration at Columbia University. ''He looks for signatures, he looks at things he leaves behind so someday people talk about him in the same breath with La Guardia, maybe Koch, as among the greatest mayors in history.''
 But mayoral aides said that because Mr. Bloomberg never believed he would win by such a wide margin, they were viewing his mandate as something akin to a Christmas bonus: he has it in hand, but he does not know how he will spend it. They acknowledged that he would have to decide soon, as Mr. Bloomberg faces a two-term limit and will be considered a lame duck in just a few years.
 At the top of his list, aides said, is ''locking in'' mayoral control of the public education system and ultimately being remembered as changing the state of city schools the way his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, is remembered for reducing crime. Aides predicted that Mr. Bloomberg's education overhaul would move more aggressively into the high schools.
 William T. Cunningham, a senior adviser, said the mayor already had his hands full with his campaign promises, including the construction of 165,000 units of low- and middle-income housing; the start of new early-education and after-school programs, and creating an emergency-command structure that would give the police control over forces run by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the Port Authority of New York and Jersey.
 Mandate or no, he and other advisers said, Mr. Bloomberg will face a major challenge from the start that could hinder his agenda: an expected $4 billion budget deficit. 
 That said, some plans that did not come up during the election year are already being discussed by the administration. Two senior-level officials with Mr. Bloomberg pointed to an initiative that may not make for exciting headlines but could have implications for the long-term financial health of the city: making a muscular push to persuade the state to allow the city to create a new, less costly pension tier for new city workers -- a potential two-front battle against legislators and unions that would go a long way toward plugging the city's structural budget gap.
 While that would be a major achievement, Mr. Bloomberg is a man of healthy ego, and will most likely seek splashier, big-ticket items in his last term. His ambitious economic development team, led by Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff, is widely expected to seek a new plan on the order of its failed proposal for a West Side stadium -- though it will have its hands full at ground zero and Governors Island.
 Aides said an aggressive, high-tech traffic-congestion plan would certainly be in keeping with the mayor's concerns, but not if it stood in the way of the rest of his agenda. 
 And there lies the rub. Mr. Bloomberg may be relatively free of the pressure from outside forces, like unions and real-estate lobbyists, that beset politicians who rely on campaign contributions. But a mayor still needs allies and support to govern, and mandates have a way of fading fast in this town.
 ''These things are very, very short lived,'' said Fran Reiter, a former top deputy and campaign aide to Mr. Giuliani, who won in 1997 with a huge margin over the Democrat, Ruth W. Messinger. ''If he comes up with something bold and popular, it makes it easier. If he rolls out something that's wildly unpopular, this election is going to be forgotten in a millisecond.'' 
 But Mr. Bloomberg has powerful motivation to use his clout wisely: his legacy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); SMOKING BANS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



184 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Chalabi, as Iraqi Deputy, Gets a Cautious Welcome in Washington

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Douglas Jehl contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
Ahmad Chalabi, the former Iraqi exile who went from being a Bush administration favorite to persona non grata, arrived in Washington on Tuesday to face uneasy talks with American officials and a new demand by Senate Democrats that he testify about the possible misuse of prewar intelligence on Iraq.
 Aides to Mr. Chalabi, who is a deputy prime minister of Iraq, have been hoping that his visits this week with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow and Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, will pave the way for a reconciliation with the Bush administration. 
He is also likely to meet with Vice President Dick Cheney, a senior administration official said Tuesday evening.
 The visit and the high-level meetings are serving notice that once again, the Bush administration is willing to deal with Mr. Chalabi, despite misgivings by some officials about his history of shifting allegiances, and allegations that he passed intelligence to Iran. 
 An administration official, declining to be identified because of the delicate nature of the visit, described Mr. Chalabi as ''an avid fisher in troubled waters, sometimes to our advantage and sometimes not.''
 ''People may despise him but admire his ability to maneuver and survive,'' the official said. ''That said, there is an acute understanding in the government that his visit needs to be handled very, very carefully.''
 To avoid appearances of embracing Mr. Chalabi, the administration is welcoming him along with another top Iraqi official, Adel Abdul Mahdi, who happens to be visiting at the same time. Mr. Mahdi is a vice president who has been a principal rival to Mr. Chalabi for power in the past year, especially among Shiites. 
 The idea, American officials said, is to treat Mr. Chalabi not as someone with a controversial past, but as a visitor whose current title demands that he be accorded respect -- and a politician whose skills and ambitions make it likely that he could gain more power in the future.
 ''Ahmad Chalabi is the deputy prime minister of Iraq; he is an official and a representative of the government of Iraq,'' said Adam Ereli, a State Department spokesman, adding that because of Mr. Chalabi's interests in the economy and energy sectors, American interests were ''well served'' by Ms. Rice's meeting with him.
 As the longtime head of the Iraqi National Congress, a prominent exile group that funneled information about Saddam Hussein's suspected weapons programs to the United States, Mr. Chalabi was a Bush administration favorite to lead Iraq, especially among top Pentagon officials who planned the invasion to oust Mr. Hussein.
 The American military ferried him into Baghdad in the first wave of the invasion in 2003, despite deep distrust of him at the State Department and the Central Intelligence Agency, where there were doubts about his motives and the truth of his information, and by such American allies as Jordan, where he has been charged with bank fraud. Indeed, much of the information he passed on was later proved to be inaccurate.
 Some time after the American occupation began, American officials turned against him, and there were allegations by intelligence officials and by other Iraqis of stealing, extortion and leaking secrets to Iran, all vehemently denied by Mr. Chalabi and labeled as part of an effort to deny him legitimacy and power. 
 ''There's a certain irony in Chalabi now coming to Washington as deputy prime minister,'' said Richard N. Perle, a Chalabi supporter who served as chairman of the Defense Policy Board, an advisory body, under Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld. 
 Mr. Perle maintains that the Bush administration should never have pushed Mr. Chalabi aside, but instead should have continued to work closely with him. ''Had we done so, I think we would be a lot better off in Iraq today,'' he said. ''Yes, there are words uttered that he's a schemer. In fact, he's been crucial to almost every positive development in the Iraq saga.''
 Critics of the war still maintain that Mr. Chalabi purposely fed false information about Iraqi weapons programs to officials in the Defense Department and Mr. Cheney's office in order to goad the administration into a war that would place him in power in Baghdad.
 Democrats on the Senate Intelligence Committee, pressing their efforts to open a second phase of their panel's inquiry on intelligence leading up to the war, want to interview Mr. Chalabi, and also speak with I. Lewis Libby, Mr. Cheney's former chief of staff, and John P. Hannah, Mr. Cheney's new national security adviser.
 It was considered doubtful that Mr. Chalabi would accommodate them, however, because he will have a busy few days meeting with friends, former friends and possible new friends in Washington.
 Those who know Mr. Chalabi well say they have been impressed not only by his resilience but by his knowledge and his ability to shift alliances and maintain ties with the leading Shiite cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, while also running on a slate devoted to secularism.
 ''It must be said that even the State Department and Central Intelligence Agency offices involved in Iraq have come to recognize that once again Chalabi has become a highly valuable contact for them,'' said Reuel Marc Gerecht, a senior fellow and expert on Iran and Iraq at the American Enterprise Institute.
 ''Some might even say his role is verging on the indispensable,'' Mr. Gerecht added, noting that Mr. Chalabi has shuttled from group to group in negotiations on the Iraqi constitution and its aftermath.
 Asked what had changed the minds of many in the administration, Mr. Gerecht said: ''The facts on the ground. We still don't have that many people in Iraq we can go to and get information that makes sense.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ahmad Chalabi, a deputy prime minister of Iraq, will meet with officials in Washington this week. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); DICK CHENEY (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



185 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: CITIES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: A Democrat Who Backed Bush in '04 Is Ousted

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Incumbent mayors won easily yesterday in Atlanta, Boston and Houston. But in St. Paul, Randy Kelly became the city's first incumbent mayor in more than 30 years to lose a re-election campaign.
 Polls suggested that Mr. Kelly's endorsement of President Bush last fall was a factor in his loss to a fellow Democrat, Chris Coleman, by 70 percent to 30 percent.
''I have never seen anything quite like this,'' Lawrence Jacobs, director of the University of Minnesota Center for the Study of Politics and Governance, said about what he called a firestorm over the endorsement. 
 A poll conducted by Mr. Jacobs found that more than half of likely voters in the city said Mr. Kelly's endorsement would influence their votes. Most of those respondents said it would lead them to vote for Mr. Coleman, a former City Council member.
 Mr. Jacobs said the results were especially surprising , as more than half of the likely voters surveyed said they thought that the city was heading in the right direction.
 Mr. Kelly said leading up to the election that he did not regret the endorsement.
 ''The St. Paul race provides another kind of lens, which is what happens to moderate Democrats that are allies of the president?'' Mr. Jacobs said. ''The message coming out of St. Paul is it can be really hazardous to your political health.''
 In Boston, Mayor Thomas M. Menino, who was first elected in 1993 after serving as an interim mayor for six months, won a fourth term, with two-thirds of the vote counted, to become the longest-serving mayor in the city's history. 
 Mr. Menino's challenger, Maura Hennigan, a 24-year City Council veteran, attacked Mr. Menino throughout the campaign on issues like underperforming schools, the increasing crime rate, stalled waterfront development and increasing housing prices.
 In Atlanta, Shirley Franklin, an extremely popular Democrat in her first term, won more than 90 percent of the vote to defeat three little-known challengers in a nonpartisan race. 
 Mayor Bill White of Houston, also riding a wave of popularity, was re-elected with more than 90 percent of the vote.
 In Cincinnati, a state representative, Mark Mallory, became the first black elected mayor, beating a white city councilman, David Pepper, with 52 percent of the vote, four years after the city was hit by race riots. Both men are Democrats. 
 In Cleveland's nonpartisan mayoral election, City Council President Frank Jackson defeated the incumbent, Jane Campbell, the first woman to lead Cleveland, 55 to 45 percent. Both are Democrats and were formerly allies. 
 Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick of Detroit, who spent much of his first term careering from crisis to crisis, was in serious danger of losing to Freman Hendrix, a former deputy mayor. 
 As vote counting went on into the early morning hours, an F.B.I. inquiry into irregularities among absentee ballots threatened to complicate the outcome regardless of which candidate prevailed. 
 On Tuesday, the F.B.I asked the city to preserve absentee ballots amid claims that some contained addresses of vacant lots or were cast by dead people.
 Addressing his supporters just after midnight, Mr. Kilpatrick predicted there would be a long night of vote tallying ahead. ''Six months ago, they said there was no possible way we would even be standing here,'' he said to roaring applause. ''Six months later, the streets are about to vote tonight.'' 
 Mr. Kilpatrick and Mr. Hendrix, both Democrats, sparred in the three months after the primary. Each said he could finally reverse the population slide of the city, improve dysfunctional services and bridge the $300 million budget gap. But even as Detroit faces myriad economic and social problems, the mayoral race focused not on the city affairs, but on Mr. Kilpatrick. 
 Among his troubles was an uproar over the lease of a new Lincoln Navigator for his wife, Carlita, as the city prepared to lay off employees. There were also questionable purchases on a city credit card that included spa visits and dinners at expensive restaurants while the mayor was supposedly out of state. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); CRIME RATES (75%); REAL ESTATE (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); HISTORY (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (62%); RIOTS (50%); HOME PRICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



186 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: REFERENDUMS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: In a Rebuke of Governor, California Voters Reject Spending Cap

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 8 

 BODY:
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger was dealt a stinging rebuke on Tuesday by voters who rejected the centerpiece of his efforts to change the balance of power in Sacramento, an initiative to cap state spending and grant sweeping new budget powers to the governor.
 A plan Mr. Schwarzenegger supported to transfer the power to draw legislative districts from the Legislature, which is controlled by Democrats, to a panel of retired judges also appeared to be failing. 
Voters were also deciding three other special election proposals backed by the governor, but after the costliest ballot campaign in state history it was clear that the once highly popular movie-star-turned-governor had been politically wounded. 
 Mr. Schwarzenegger staked his time, his prestige and several million dollars of his personal fortune on the ballot campaign that he said was needed to fix a dysfunctional political system. The governor must now return to Sacramento and try to reestablish ties with Democratic leaders in the Legislature with whom he has been engaged in a bitter election campaign lasting for months.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger appeared before all the results were in Tuesday evening and while not conceding defeat, he said he would meet on Thursday with his Democratic foes and try to find new solutions to the state's political and economic problems.
 ''There is much, much work that has to be done,'' he said.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger campaigned tirelessly for his ballot initiatives, particularly Proposition 76, which would give the governor power to unilaterally cut spending when revenues did not meet projections, and Proposition 77, a redistricting plan designed to break the hammerlock Democrats have had for a decade on the California legislature and its congressional delegation.
 Both initiatives were losing by substantial margins with half the vote counted and the Associated Press declared that both had been defeated.
 Two other proposals he supported, 74 and 75, would extend the probationary period for new public school teachers to five years from two years, and would force unions to seek written permission from members before their dues could be used for political campaigns.
 Three other initiatives on the California ballot -- two measures on drug discounts and a plan to impose new regulations on electric utilities -- all failed by sizeable margins.
 The governor's popularity has slumped in recent months because of his own political missteps and as a relentless barrage of critical political advertisements filling the airwaves. Mr. Schwarzenegger has said he intends to seek re-election next November.
 In Ohio, voters soundly rejected a package of election revision measures pushed by Democrats after President Bush's narrow and disputed re-election victory in the state last year.
 The four failed measures, backed by labor unions, government reform organizations and the Internet-fueled activist group MoveOn.org, would have stripped the secretary of state's office of the authority to conduct elections and made it much easier to vote absentee up to a month before Election Day. The package also included strict new limits on campaign contributions and the creation of an independent panel to redraw legislative districts.
 Also on Tuesday, voters in Texas resoundingly approved a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, making Texas the 19th state to outlaw the practice. Voters in Maine ratified a state law barring discrimination against gay men and lesbians.
 Matt Foreman, executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, said leaders of the gay rights movement were not surprised by the Texas outcome but were pleased by the result in Maine. 
 ''This is a much-needed win for a national movement,'' Mr. Foreman said, ''because we have experienced so many losses at the polls over the last year.'' 
 The Ohio initiatives were among the most closely watched of 39 ballot measures in seven states, an unusually high number in an off-year election. 
 The measures were put on the ballot in response to last year's presidential election, which some Democrats charged was tainted by partisan mismanagement. They put particular blame on Secretary of State J. Kenneth Blackwell, a Republican, who is the state's top election official and was the Ohio chairman of the Bush re-election campaign.
 Critics said that many Democrats had to wait in hours-long lines at polling places and that many were denied ballots because they allegedly did not meet residency requirements. Critics also said that many absentee ballots from Democratic precincts were never counted.
 No fraud was ever proved, but the election provoked demands for major electoral revisions.
 The Ohio plan would have disbanded the current redistricting commission and created a bipartisan panel. The current system is dominated by Republicans, who have drawn the boundaries to maintain their majorities in the General Assembly and in the Congressional delegation. The law would have required the panel to make districts as competitive as possible.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger endorsed the Ohio redistricting measure, which would have benefited Democrats, as well as a similar plan in California designed to make Republicans more competitive.
 Keary McCarthy, a spokesman for Reform Ohio Now, the group behind the four initiatives, said that voters might have rejected the measures because they were confused by them. The national Republican Party and business interests ran a well-financed campaign to defeat them, Mr. McCarthy said.
 ''This became a national campaign,'' he said. ''If we did anything tonight, these issues are now in the public consciousness.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers from unions rallied yesterday in Los Angeles against Proposition 75, one of four measures being pushed by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (72%); REDISTRICTING (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (67%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (62%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (60%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (53%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2005



187 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: MAYORAL RACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2288 words

HEADLINE: BLOOMBERG CRUISES TO RE-ELECTION VICTORY; CORZINE IS WINNER IN COSTLY NEW JERSEY RACE

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY; Tom Lueck, Manny Fernandez and Jo McGinty contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Michael R. Bloomberg was re-elected mayor of New York by a historic margin yesterday, beating back Fernando Ferrer's attempt to build a multiethnic coalition and giving Republicans a fourth straight victory over a Democratic Party that had controlled city politics for much of the last century.
 Mr. Bloomberg's 20-point margin of victory, based on unofficial total results, appeared to set a Republican record by smashing Rudolph W. Giuliani's 16-point win in 1997 and even exceeding Fiorello H. La Guardia's 19-point landslide in 1937. Mr. Ferrer seemed to have the lowest number of votes of a Democratic candidate for mayor, since 1917, when John F. Hylan won office with 313,956 votes.
The outcome also consigned Democratic leaders, who were unusually united behind Mr. Ferrer, to a season of soul-searching about their political strategy as they face 16 years of exile from City Hall through the 2009 election. 
 Supporters as well as independent analysts saw Mr. Bloomberg's success as a triumph of competence over the ideology, ethnic politics, and partisan appeals that defined Mr. Ferrer, who leaned heavily on endorsements from the party's elite, including Bill and Hillary Clinton, as he struggled to find a message with appeal.
 Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire businessman who paid more than $70 million for his own campaign, portrayed himself as a technocrat who was beholden to no one and who had brought the city back from the dark days after 9/11 as crime rates fell, students' test scores rose, and the economy rebounded.
 The election outcome also suggested that Mr. Bloomberg and his Republican predecessor, Mr. Giuliani, have set a standard by showing that voters across party lines want a commanding and independent-minded mayor who shows measurable results on crime, education and quality of life.
 ''New Yorkers now vote for vision, ideas, and skills that bring the city together, and for leaders who appeal to our common public interest instead of the special interests,'' said Dick Dadey, executive director of Citizens Union, a good-government group that supported the mayor. ''That's the appeal of Bloomberg; people believe he isn't a typical politician, and that his only priority is a well-run city.''
 With 100 percent of electoral precincts reporting at 12:30 a.m., Mr. Bloomberg had 59 percent of the vote, to Mr. Ferrer's 39 percent. Mr. Ferrer conceded the race in a call to Mr. Bloomberg shortly after 10 p.m., and the mayor told him: ''Thank you, Freddy. You're a gentleman to call.'' 
 At 10:30 Mr. Ferrer thanked supporters from a stage at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, where his grandmother had worked for low wages decades ago.
 ''I'm truly the luckiest man in New York,'' said a smiling Mr. Ferrer, who wore a look of pride and, at times, relief after a year-long battle for the party nomination and then against Mr. Bloomberg.
 ''I wouldn't change the last year for all the money in the world,'' he said in a half-wink to Mr. Bloomberg's steep financial advantages in the race. ''Though of course I ran to win, I knew I could lose. So I ran first and foremost to raise a voice for those without one -- and my friends, make no mistake, this voice, our voice, has been heard!''
 ''Gracias, mi familia, gracias,'' concluded Mr. Ferrer, who had sought to become the city's first Hispanic mayor.
 A half-hour later Mr. Bloomberg entered a victory party at the Sheraton New York that was fit for a rock star, with throbbing music and flashing lights and hundreds of supporters, including Mr. Giuliani, Magic Johnson, and the mayor's two daughters, his girlfriend, and his 96-year-old mother.
 ''This sure beats the alternative every time!'' Mr. Bloomberg said. Recalling his first victory four years ago, in the wake of 9/11, he added: ''That night we told the world that New York was alive and well and open for business. And today, the world knows New York City is back in business!''
 ''Tonight, we celebrate -- tomorrow, we go back to work,'' the mayor continued. ''We go back to fighting for a New York where families can live safely and grow, where the rights of every citizen are protected, a city where children can learn, with good jobs and housing and health care for all. I can't wait.''
 In the end Mr. Ferrer was never more than an underdog, as their race quickly turned into one of the most lopsided spending contests in city history and the Democrat struggled to raise even $5 million. Some Ferrer aides admitted for the first time yesterday that they assumed weeks ago they would lose -- in part because of the mayor's unlimited advertising on television, but also because Mr. Ferrer asked people to vote for him simply for the sake of voting Democratic and never found a political message that gripped voters, donors, and the media.
 ''The Democratic Party is truly in disarray, and has no particular focus that the public identifies with,'' said Stan Altman, a professor of public affairs at Baruch College. ''The fact is, New Yorkers care much more about important issues than Democrats have given us credit for.''
 In the end, the outcome of the New York mayor's race was never much in doubt. Mr. Bloomberg's lead grew in every poll, reaching 38 points in a Quinnipiac survey on Monday. The mayor even went golfing yesterday, while his political aides joked about who would come into the office to answer phones today. 
 About 1.24 million New Yorkers voted yesterday, in one of the lightest turnouts since the 1980s, denying Mr. Ferrer the huge vote from Hispanic voters and Democratic loyalists that he desperately needed to unseat the incumbent.
 At the same time, Mr. Bloomberg's aides tried to lower expectations yesterday about the margin of victory, apparently in hopes of making the ultimate result seem more impressive. The mayor had set his sights on winning the race by as wide a margin as possible to claim a political mandate that would strengthen his hand with the Democratic-controlled City Council and budget-writers in Albany and Washington.
 Mr. Ferrer's chief political message, his pledge to bridge ''two New Yorks'' separating the haves from the have-nots, appeared less persuasive to voters than Mr. Bloomberg's strategy of running on what even many Democrats conceded was his impressive record. Results-based governance has been the mayor's mantra in office, and his political commercials and campaign events were mostly designed to reinforce an aura of accomplishment.
 ''This is testament to the fact that voters recognize Mike is an excellent manager, and his skills transferred effectively from the private sector to the public sector, and voters went to the polls in recognition of that,'' Mr. Giuliani, the former mayor, said last night.
 The Democratic defeat called into question the party's bedrock strategy of seeking to unite a multiracial coalition behind its mayoral nominee, which the Ferrer team attempted to achieve with dozens of endorsements from black and Hispanic leaders, a strategy that propelled the last Democratic mayoral victory, when David N. Dinkins was elected in 1989. 
 Democrats also believed, apparently incorrectly, that Mr. Ferrer's Puerto Rican roots would largely guarantee huge support from Hispanics, a fast-growing part of the electorate.
 ''The first time the Democratic Party has ever nominated a Latino for mayor, he not only did not get strong support from other parts of the 'liberal coalition' -- blacks and white liberals -- he was also unable to generate much fervor among Latinos,'' said John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York Graduate Center.
 The Ferrer campaign was troubled from the start. The Bronx borough president from 1987 to 2001, Mr. Ferrer entered the race a year ago without a bully pulpit, a financial war chest, or a message beyond a faintly populist theme about returning Democratic values to City Hall. 
 A bureaucratic type who never seemed comfortable among power brokers or reporters, Mr. Ferrer failed to seal endorsements early on from business leaders, black officials, and labor unions, and was an object of constant derision in the tabloid press. Many white voters still resented that, after he lost the Democratic nomination in his second bid for mayor in 2001, he bitterly refused to strongly back his former rival, Mark Green, who lost to Mr. Bloomberg.
 Yet the most damaging moment for Mr. Ferrer, and one that aides came to see as virtually fatal, came in March when he asserted that the 1999 police shooting of an unarmed African immigrant, Amadou Diallo, was not a crime. That shooting had horrified many New Yorkers, and sharply divided some along racial lines. Mr. Ferrer was an outspoken critic of the police at the time, even letting himself be arrested at a protest. In turn, his comments in March sparked a huge uproar among the black supporters he had counted on for support.
 With hindsight setting in fully, Ferrer aides said they concluded by late September that the race was not winnable. Public polling and some campaign surveys showed that, even if Mr. Ferrer managed to land every blow even as he championed a positive message of his own, the mayor was still likely to win. 
 Too many New Yorkers believed that the city was on the right track and that the mayor deserved substantial, unassailable credit for leading the recovery from 9/11 and closing a billion-dollar budget gap without slashing city services.
 Ferrer aides said their greatest handicap came in fund-raising. They expected to take in $10 million or more, but raised barely half that. They even produced a commercial late in the race, showing Mr. Bloomberg in a lovey-dovey cartoon pose with President Bush, hoping to incite Democrats to donate because of their anger toward Republicans (such as the mayor). Yet only a small amount of money came in, aides said.
 If Mr. Ferrer's defeat was widely anticipated, Mr. Bloomberg's victory still amounts to a stunning political turnaround for a rookie politician. His aides still wince when recalling that the mayor's job approval rating fell to 24 percent in a June 2003 poll by The New York Times, the lowest point for any mayor since 1978. 
 At that time, many voters viewed the mayor as an aloof billionaire whose policies ignored the concerns and needs of average people, be it sharp increases in property taxes from 2002, cuts to city services, the expanded citywide smoking ban, and the continued loss of jobs.
 Aides to Mr. Bloomberg held to the hope that those unpopular tax increases and economic setbacks were early enough in his term for the anger to subside by Election Day 2005. The mayor's political fortunes also benefited, indirectly, by federal tax cuts that were a balm for many business executives and well-off New Yorkers. The mayor began taking more steps to buff his image by courting labor leaders, championing good-news initiatives holding more campaign-style political events, and smoothing out his performance to reduce his gaffes.
 The Bloomberg teams deployed some 10,000 volunteers yesterday to urge voters to the polls and made last-minute automated phone calls last night urging people to vote, while Mr. Ferrer had a few thousand people working the streets and the phone while counting on his most steadfast supporters to turn out in droves.
 In interviews at two polling sites, Bronx and Hispanic voters spoke proudly about their favorite son and his goal of becoming the city's first Hispanic mayor. Yet they also saw his uphill battle against Mr. Bloomberg clearly.
 ''I'm Latin,'' said Hugo Orosco, 50, when asked why he voted for Mr. Ferrer. ''Our numbers are growing, but we don't have the proper representation.''


Chart: ''The Votes for Mayor''
Borough: Bronx
Pct. Of districts reporting: 100%
Michael R. Bloomberg (REPUBLICAN): 72,727 (39%)
Fernando Ferrer (DEMOCRAT): 109,777 (59%)
Others: 3,194 (2%)

Borough: Brooklyn
Pct. Of districts reporting: 100%
Michael R. Bloomberg (REPUBLICAN): 201,050 (58%)
Fernando Ferrer (DEMOCRAT): 134,901 (39%)
Others: 10,091 (3%)

Borough: Manhattan
Pct. Of districts reporting: 100%
Michael R. Bloomberg (REPUBLICAN): 190,611 (61%)
Fernando Ferrer (DEMOCRAT): 114,611 (36%)
Others: 9,070 (3%)

Borough: Queens
Pct. Of districts reporting: 100%
Michael R. Bloomberg (REPUBLICAN): 194,152 (64%)
Fernando Ferrer (DEMOCRAT): 102,304 (34%)
Others: 8,901 (3%)

Borough: Staten Island
Pct. Of districts reporting: 100%
Michael R. Bloomberg (REPUBLICAN): 65,095 (77%)
Fernando Ferrer (DEMOCRAT): 16,310 (19%)
Others: 3,203 (4%)

Borough: Total
Pct. Of districts reporting: 100%
Michael R. Bloomberg (REPUBLICAN): 723,635 (59%)
Fernando Ferrer (DEMOCRAT): 477,903 (39%)
Others: 34,459 (3%)

Results in Other New York Races

Results at 12:40 a.m. (Reporting: 100%)
KEY:
+ Winner
 *Incumbent
C-Conservative, D-Democrat, G-Green, IN-Independence, LT-Libertarian, O-Other, R-Republican, SW-Socialist Workers, WF-Working Families

New York City

Public Advocate
 +Betsy F. Gotbaum, D*: 686,209 (89%)
Jay Golub, C: 46,949 (6%)
Bernard Goetz, AO: 17,599 (2%
Jim Lesczynski, LT: 17,034 (2%)

Comptroller
+William C. Thompson Jr., D*: 693,237 (92%)
Herbert F. Ryan, C: 41,598 (5%)
 Ron Moore, LB: 12,629 (2%)
Daniel B. Fein, SW: 9,825 (1%)

Borough Presidents

Bronx
+Adolfo Carrion Jr., D*: 127,909 (86%)
Kevin Brawley, R: 20,103 (14%)

Brooklyn
+Marty Markowitz, D*: 208,148 (79%)
Theodore Alatsas, R: 34,016 (13%)
Gloria Mattera, G: 17,976 (7%)
Gary Popkin, LB: 2,143 (1%)

Manhattan
+Scott M. Stringer, D: 187,409 (76%)
Barry Popik, R: 42,488 (17%)
Jessie A. Fields, IN: 12,600 (5%)
Joseph Dobrian, LB: 2,891 (1%)
Arrin T. Hawkins, SW: 2,374 (1%)

Queens
+Helen M. Marshall, D*: 170,358 (74%)
Philip T. Sica, R: 58,492 (26%)

Staten Island
+James P. Molinaro, R*: 45,979 (59%)
John V. Luisi, D: 32,617 (41%)

(pg. B8)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg arriving at the Sheraton New York hotel on Seventh Avenue last night for his victory celebration. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at his victory celebration last night at the Sheraton New York Hotel. Unofficial results gave him a winning margin of 20 percentage points. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B8)Chart: ''Largest Margins''Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's margin of victory was 20 percent.YEAR: 1985WINNER: Edward I. Koch - D, IMARGIN OF VICTORY: 68%PCT. OF VOTE: 78%YEAR: 1981WINNER: Edward I. Koch - D, IMARGIN OF VICTORY: 61PCT. OF VOTE: 75YEAR: 1957WINNER: Robert F. Wagner - D, L, FMARGIN OF VICTORY: 42PCT. OF VOTE: 68YEAR: 1973WINNER: Abraham D. Beame - DMARGIN OF VICTORY: 40PCT. OF VOTE: 57YEAR: 1921WINNER: John F. Hylan - DMARGIN OF VICTORY: 35PCT. OF VOTE: 63YEAR: 1925WINNER: James J. Walker - DMARGIN OF VICTORY: 35PCT. OF VOTE: 65YEAR: 1929WINNER: James J. Walker - DMARGIN OF VICTORY: 34PCT. OF VOTE: 59YEAR: 1945WINNER: William O'Dwyer - D, ALMARGIN OF VICTORY: 34PCT. OF VOTE: 55YEAR: 1932WINNER: John P. O'Brien - DMARGIN OF VICTORY: 27PCT. OF VOTE: 47YEAR: 1917WINNER: John F. Hylan - DMARGIN OF VICTORY: 23PCT. OF VOTE: 45YEAR: 1913WINNER: John Purroy Mitchel - FMARGIN OF VICTORY: 20PCT. OF VOTE: 57YEAR: 2005WINNER: Michael R. Bloomberg - RMARGIN OF VICTORY: 20PCT. OF VOTE: 59YEAR: 1937WINNER: Fiorello H. La Guardia - R, CF, P, ALMARGIN OF VICTORY: 20PCT. OF VOTE: 58YEAR: 1961WINNER: Robert F. Wagner - D, L, BMARGIN OF VICTORY: 16PCT. OF VOTE: 50YEAR: 1953WINNER: Robert F. Wagner - DMARGIN OF VICTORY: 16PCT. OF VOTE: 46YEAR: 1997WINNER: Rudolph W. Giuliani - R, LMARGIN OF VICTORY: 15PCT. OF VOTE: 57YEAR: 1977WINNER: Edward I. Koch - DMARGIN OF VICTORY: 14PCT. OF VOTE: 52YEAR: 1909WINNER: William J. Gaynor - DMARGIN OF VICTORY: 12PCT. OF VOTE: 41D-Democrat
R-Republican
I-Independent
L-Liberal
F-Fusion
AL-American Labor
CF-City Fusion
P-Progressive
B-Brotherhood(Sources by ''The Encyclopedia of New York City''
 New York City Board of Elections)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CRIME RATES (74%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2006



188 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: At-Home Enterprises Seek Elbow Room

BYLINE: By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU

 BODY:
Eric Poses wanted to hire an assistant for the game-board company that he was running out of his two-bedroom condominium in Santa Monica, but realized it was too cramped to accommodate another desk.
 Joan Casey, whose consulting business was based in her Brookline, Mass., home, needed a quieter place to meet with clients.
 And Valerie Bent, the owner of a company that sells footed pajamas for adults, was running out of space to store a sea of inventory that had overrun the four-car garage and basement of her Las Vegas home, to the annoyance of her husband. 
 Three quandaries, one solution: commercial real estate. Millions of Americans operate businesses out of their homes, but the successful ones usually have to move out at some point because they run out of room. As their ranks grow -- the number of self-employed people grew to seven million last year from six million in 2001, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics -- so does the number of them who are abandoning attics, basements and extra bedrooms for offices, warehouses and even factories. 
 It can be a wrenching decision, adding a huge expense and introducing a new measure of risk. But for many entrepreneurs, there is no alternative. According to a recent Small Business Digest survey of 2,300 home-based business owners on its Web site, www.2sbdigest.com, 12 percent planned to move into commercial space within two years, roughly the same number as in a poll conducted in 2004.
 Mr. Poses, whose company, All Things Equal, makes the board game Loaded Questions, rented a 1,000-square-foot office near his home last year for $35,000 a year. In return for an 8 percent discount, he paid it in one lump sum to make sure he would not come up short when sales tapered off, as they tend to do periodically in his industry. He then hired an assistant, who recently resigned, and he is now looking for a replacement. With sales up to a projected $1.4 million this year from $750,000 in 2003, his last full year working out of the home office, he recently signed a one-year lease for a bigger space nearby. 
 "The only way I was going to grow was by having an office," he said.
 Ms. Casey, the Massachusetts consultant, moved her firm, Educational Advocates, out of her home last November and projects sales of $40,000 this year, a 33 percent increase from the $30,000 she took in during the last year she was home. And for 2006, she expects revenue to hit $50,000. She made the transition cautiously, she says, subleasing an office for a few hours a week before renting her own.
 The office, complete with waiting room, has given her business credibility, she says. ''I find that people take you more seriously when you have an office because it isn't just some mother working out of her house,'' she said. ''I don't agree with that, but that's how it's perceived.'' Also, she is enjoying having the elbow room and the privacy difficult to come by with two children at home.
 Not surprisingly, lack of space was the main reason that home-based entrepreneurs gave in Small Business Digest's survey for seeking larger quarters, but several other factors also came into play. For example, 28 percent of those questioned cited the "confusion and noise" in their homes, 26 percent lamented the intrusion on their privacy, 19 percent said they wanted to end conflicts between their business and personal lives, 14 percent mentioned the endless coming and going of delivery trucks and 9 percent invoked their neighbors' unhappiness at all the activity their businesses generated. 
 Then there is zoning. Scott Shane, an economics professor at the Weatherhead School of Management at Case Western Reserve University, says about half of all businesses start in the home but, as they grow, often run afoul of local ordinances and are forced to decamp.
 Some home businesses can stay put, however, according to Bruce Phillips, senior economist for the NFIB Research Foundation in Washington, a research center financed by the National Federation of Independent Business. 
 "For plumbers, electricians and the like, the home-based setting might be the cheapest and most efficient way to do it, especially if billing and scheduling can be done out of the home,'' he aid. "Now, if you need room for inventory, a home might not be as practical." That does not necessarily mean renting warehouse space, he added; a small storage unit might do the trick.
 But not for Brad Fallon, who owns MyWeddingFavors.com, an online retail store. The company, an e-commerce site that he ran through Yahoo for a fee of $50 a month, started in early 2004 out of a spare room in his Atlanta home. Sales grew from $10,000 to $83,000 in just two months. Merchandise was filling the Fallons' home and before long was also piling up in the Birmingham, Ala., home of his in-laws who were helping run the business. In May 2004, the couple rented an office and warehouse in Birmingham, but the company quickly outgrew it, and he moved to a location in Atlanta. Today, MyWedding Favors.com has 41 full-time employees and 2005 sales of a projected $7 million.
 In hindsight, Mr. Fallon said, he and his wife acted too quickly in renting their first locations and should have had a lawyer review the contract. "We signed a three- year lease for about $800 a month and we ended up moving again a month or so later," he said.
 That was a classic mistake, according to Martin Lehman, a counselor in New York for the Service Corps of Retired Executives, a nonprofit organization that counsels entrepreneurs. Aside from making allowances for future expansion, he advises small-business owners to take a long, hard look at all the fixed expenses they will have to absorb in commercial space besides the rent, like phone and Internet service, furniture, heat and air-conditioning, electricity and possibly parking.
 Still, don't put off the move too long. Valerie Bent, who started the Big Feet Pajama Company in her home in February, says sales would have suffered if she had not moved into a 1,200-square-foot office-and-warehouse complex in Las Vegas, near the Strip, in mid-October. Partly because she made the switch in time, she projects 2005 revenue in the six figures.
 After just a few weeks in business, she says, she knew a move was inevitable. She sells her merchandise on the Internet and also to small boutiques and department stores, and ended up with racks of merchandise throughout her basement and boxes stacked up in the garage. When she signed a two-year, $1,000-a-month lease for her new location, she made sure that the property manager would allow her to move to ampler quarters in the same commercial park without paying a penalty. She struck similar deals with her phone company Internet provider. 
 Ms. Bent acknowledges that her decision to leave her home was rushed, and she had no business plan in place. "But you have to do what you can to prepare for growth or a slowdown in business," she said. ''It all depends on what our order flow looks like.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Valerie Bent moved her pajama business from her Las Vegas home to an office-warehouse complex. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); TOYS & GAMES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); HOME BASED BUSINESSES (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); RETAIL SALES (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); BOARD GAMES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); STATISTICS (67%); WEB SITES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005



189 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Farm Issues Stall Talks For a Deal On Trade 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9 

 BODY:
Any hope of advancing a global trade pact this year all but evaporated on Wednesday, as negotiators from around the world said that they were at an impasse over agriculture.
 The immediate cause of the breakdown was the refusal of European leaders to offer more than modest reductions in their tariffs on farm products ranging from beef and sugar to dairy products and fruit.
 The breakdown threatens to sink the first big global trade agreement in 10 years. The deal was supposed to address the longstanding grievances of poor countries about being excluded from the agricultural markets of rich countries, as well as expand the opportunities for wealthy nations to export services like banking and insurance. But without an agreement on agriculture, newly assertive developing countries like Brazil are in no mood to negotiate about industrial goods or services. 
 With just a month left before a crucial meeting in Hong Kong, where ministers were supposed to agree on a detailed framework, American officials all but gave up hope of progress this year.
 ''I am sorry to report that we've not made the progress that we had hoped in order to put together a program for the Hong Kong meeting,'' Rob Portman, the United States trade representative, said in a conference call with reporters on Wednesday morning.
 But the stalled talks reflected anxieties about reducing protections that extend beyond Europe. 
 Just last week, Latin American leaders roundly rebuffed President Bush's attempt to promote a ''free trade agreement for the Americas.'' Here in Washington, the Republican-controlled House came within two votes last July of killing the Central American Free Trade Agreement, a comparatively tiny deal. 
 And on Tuesday, the Bush administration succeeded in pressuring China to limit the growth of its clothing exports to the United States. 
 The new impasse is in the Doha Round of trade talks, which began with euphoria in Doha, Qatar, in 2001 and were supposed to result in a sweeping new agreement by the end of 2006. The stalled talks were first reported by The Wall Street Journal on Wednesday.
 To reach that goal, negotiators were supposed to agree on a framework at meetings next month in Hong Kong. But after two days of talks in London and Geneva this week, officials from many crucial countries said that no deal was probably better than a weak one.
 ''The worst possible scenario would be to lower the ambition and try to do something on the cheap side,'' Celso Amorim, Brazil's foreign minister and top trade negotiator, said in a telephone interview on Wednesday from Geneva. ''If you don't have an appropriate result now, we'll have to wait another 20 years to have real reform in agriculture.''
 Last month, Mr. Portman put forward a fairly bold plan to cut tariffs by 55 to 90 percent over five years. He also proposed a 60 percent cut by the United States in some farm subsidy programs. But the European Union, under intense pressure from French leaders, offered to cut its farm tariffs by an average of only 39 percent and insisted on keeping many ''sensitive'' products outside that average.
 The Doha Round is not entirely dead. But the talks have made almost no progress for the last two years, and many trade specialists say the chances of salvaging a deal next year are slim.
 ''There is now clearly a sense of crisis in these negotiations,'' said Bruce Gosper, Australia's ambassador to the World Trade Organization. ''The issue is not about the text or timing. The issue is about ambition and political will, and most particularly the will of the European Union.''
 In essence, supporters of a big new trade pact face a grim choice: settle for a timid agreement, knowing that it may take another 20 years to complete a new round of global trade negotiations; or walk away from talks next month, hoping that European leaders will agree to more ambitious reductions early next year.
 Trade negotiators are doubtful that European leaders will offer greater access to their protected farm markets, even if talks resume next spring.
 Peter Mandelson, the European Union's chief trade negotiator, is already under sharp attack from the French president, Jacques Chirac, for offering too many concessions.
 Mr. Amorim of Brazil said he saw no hint of a willingness by Europe to soften its stance, even after he tentatively floated the idea of sharply cutting Brazil's tariffs on industrial goods.
 ''I've been in trade negotiations for more than 20 years now,'' Mr. Amorim said. ''You know when someone wants some more of you, or when they are just reciting their case. What we heard yesterday was just a re-recitation of their proposal. It led me to the conclusion that they are setting the bar very high on industrial goods, because they don't even want to talk about agriculture.''
 Some negotiators were more sympathetic to Europe, contending that the United States was offering less than Europe in reducing farm subsidies.
 ''The fact is that on domestic supports, the European Union is closer to the G-20 position than the U.S.,'' said Ujal Singh Bhatia, India's ambassador to the World Trade Organization, referring to the Group of 20 large developing nations.
 There is ample anxiety and downright hostility in the United States to trade-opening pacts, not only among traditional opponents in big labor unions but also among otherwise pro-business Republicans in states with industries hit hard by imports.
 Gene Sperling, a top economic adviser to President Bill Clinton who endured the collapse of trade talks in Seattle in 1999, said American leaders need to pay more attention to the people whose lives and jobs are disrupted by more open trade.
 ''If you care about progress in market opening, you are going to have to have more ambitious compacts for sharing the downside costs as well as the benefits of open trade,'' Mr. Sperling said. ''As economists, we talk about how the benefits of lower prices are broadly shared. But the costs are very heavily concentrated.''

 Laurent Gillieron/Keystone, via Associated Press)(pg. C2)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Celso Amorim, Brazil's top trade negotiator, arrived at a trade meeting in Geneva on Tuesday. (Photo by 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); AGRICULTURE (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

PERSON: ROB PORTMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (93%); BRAZIL (93%); HONG KONG (93%); QATAR (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005



190 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy's Criticisms Prompt Meeting With Zimbabwe Official

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Nov. 9 

 BODY:
Zimbabwe's foreign minister summoned the United States ambassador, Christopher Dell, to a meeting on Wednesday in the wake of a recent speech in which Mr. Dell laid blame for Zimbabwe's spectacular economic decline squarely -- and pungently -- at the government's feet.
 Speaking at Africa University in Mutare last Wednesday, Mr. Dell called Zimbabwe's government and its policies ''fiscally reckless,'' ''misguided,'' ''corrupt,'' ''blatantly selfish'' and ''riddled with political favoritism.'' He said the nation's ruling elite had ''trampled on democratic and economic freedoms'' and driven away foreign investors with a ''chaotic'' land-reform policy. 
''The Zimbabwe government's own gross mismanagement of the economy and its corrupt rule has brought on the crisis,'' Mr. Dell said in the speech.
 In response, President Robert G. Mugabe's government has blasted Mr. Dell. Reports in government-controlled newspapers have suggested that he is part of a conspiracy to oust Zimbabwe's rulers and broadly hinted that he could be stripped of his diplomatic credentials and expelled. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Dell was handed a note of protest from Zimbabwe's foreign minister, Simbarashe Mumbengegwi. Government-run radio reported that the note accused Mr. Dell of making unwarranted attacks on the government at a time of crisis and suggested that he had trod close to violating Geneva Convention rules on the appropriate behavior of diplomats abroad.
 In an interview on Wednesday evening, the spokesman for the United States Embassy in Zimbabwe, Timothy Smith, said that Mr. Dell ''reserved the right to make an appropriate reply after consultations in Washington.'' It was unclear when Mr. Dell might return to Washington for talks with what Mr. Smith called ''high-ranking officials.''
 In Washington, the State Department has unstintingly backed Mr. Dell's speech, which appears to have been carefully planned. ''We're going to continue to call it as we see it,'' the department's deputy spokesman, Adam Ereli, said at a briefing on Tuesday. 
 Zimbabwe's upbraiding of Mr. Dell might be called a new low in Zimbabwean-American relations but for the fact that relations have long been subterranean. Both the United States and the European Union have imposed sanctions restricting their citizens' dealings with top Zimbabwe officials since Mr. Mugabe's government began seizing the nation's white-owned commercial farms without compensation in 2000. 
 Mr. Mugabe has blamed those sanctions, and a spate of poor rains, for a precipitous decline in Zimbabwe's economy and has accused the United States and Britain of waging a covert campaign to subvert his rule in favor of a government that would restore colonial-style control of the country by white rulers.
 Mr. Dell, a career foreign service officer who went to Zimbabwe in August 2004, has come under increasing attack from the government in recent months. After he walked into a botanical garden near Mr. Mugabe's stately presidential home on Oct. 10, he was briefly arrested. The police said the area was off limits to outsiders, and the government accused Mr. Dell at the time of trying to provoke an international incident.
 American diplomatic officials say Mr. Dell mistakenly wandered into a poorly marked part of the reserve.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (83%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (75%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); CONSPIRACY (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); ZIMBABWE (98%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005



191 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: An Army Ready To Snap

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
Have you heard what's been happening to the military?
 Most people have heard that more than 2,000 American G.I.'s have been killed in the nonstop meat grinder of Iraq. There was a flurry of stories about that grim milestone in the last week of October. (Since then the official number of American deaths has jumped to at least 2,055, and it continues to climb steadily.)
More than 15,000 have been wounded in action. 
 But the problems of the military go far beyond the casualty figures coming out of the war zone. The Army, for example, has been stretched so taut since the Sept. 11 attacks, especially by the fiasco in Iraq, that it's become like a rubber band that may snap at any moment.
 President Bush and Donald Rumsfeld convinced themselves that they could win the war in Iraq on the cheap. They never sent enough troops to do the job. Now the burden of trying to fight a long and bitter war with too few troops is taking a terrible toll on the men and women in uniform.
 Last December, the top general in the Army Reserve warned that his organization was ''rapidly degenerating into a 'broken' force'' because of the Pentagon's ''dysfunctional'' policies and demands placed on the Reserve by the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.
 As one of my colleagues at The Times, David Unger of the editorial board, wrote, ''The Army's commitments have dangerously and rapidly expanded, while recruitment has plunged.''
 Soldiers are being sent into the crucible of Iraq for three and even four tours, a form of Russian roulette that is unconscionable.
 ''They feel like they're the only ones sacrificing,'' said Paul Rieckhoff, a former Army lieutenant who served in Iraq and is now the executive director of Operation Truth, an advocacy group for service members and veterans.
 ''They're starting to look around and say, 'You know, it's me and my buddies over and over again, and everybody else is living life uninterrupted.' ''
 When I asked Mr. Rieckhoff what he thought was happening with the Army, he replied, ''The wheels are coming off.''
 The Washington Post, in a lengthy article last week, noted:
 ''As sustained combat in Iraq makes it harder than ever to fill the ranks of the all-volunteer force, newly released Pentagon demographic data show that the military is leaning heavily for recruits on economically depressed, rural areas where youths' need for jobs may outweigh the risks of going to war.''
 For those already in the Army, the price being paid -- apart from the physical toll of the killed and wounded -- is high indeed.
 Divorce rates have gone way up, nearly doubling over the past four years. Long deployments -- and, especially, repeated deployments -- can take a vicious toll on personal relationships. 
 Chaplains, psychologists and others have long been aware of the many dangerous factors that accompany wartime deployment: loneliness, financial problems, drug or alcohol abuse, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, the problems faced by the parent left at home to care for children, the enormous problem of adjusting to the devastation of wartime injuries, and so on.
 The Army is not just fighting a ruthless insurgency in Iraq. It's fighting a rear-guard action against these noncombat, guerrilla-like conditions that threaten its own viability.
 There are reasons why parents all across America are telling their children to run the other way when military recruiters come to call. There are reasons why so many lieutenants and captains, fine young men and women, are heading toward the exit doors at the first opportunity.
 A captain who is on active duty, and therefore asked not to be identified by name, told me yesterday:
 ''The only reason I stayed in the Army was because one colonel convinced me to do it. Other than that, I would have walked. Basically, these guys who are leaving have their high-powered educations. Some are from West Point. They've done their five years. Why should they stay and go back to Iraq and die in a war that's just going to keep on going?''
 Beyond that, he said, ''Guys are not going to stay in the Army when their wives are leaving them.''
 From the perspective of the troops, he said, the situation in Iraq is perverse.
 He could find no upside. ''You go to war,'' he said, ''and you could lose your heart, your mind, your arms, your legs -- but you cannot win. The soldiers don't win.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); TERRORISM (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005



192 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: LONG ISLAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Gain on Long Island, a Onetime G.O.P. Bastion

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
For decades, Republican candidates in New York have turned to Long Island as a reliable source of votes. Thousands of Long Islanders came to rallies for presidential candidates. Just 11 years ago, the Long Island vote, and the help of the Island's kingmaker, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, were instrumental in electing a little-known state senator, George E. Pataki, the governor of New York.
 Now the era of Republican hegemony on Long Island is over, and the implications for statewide politics as the 2006 elections for governor and United States Senate get under way are profound. Republicans can no longer count on Long Island for huge vote margins to push their candidates into office, officials in both parties said yesterday.
The shifting center of Long Island politics was underscored this week by a string of Democratic victories across the Island. In January, Democrats will simultaneously take control of Nassau and Suffolk Counties for what officials say is the first time. Both counties will still be run by Democratic county executives, and, thanks to the legislative seats that Democrats picked up in Suffolk County on Tuesday, Democrats will have a majority in both legislatures. The vaunted Republican machine of old is just a memory. 
 ''I think the days of monolithic, one-party control by the Republicans, interrupted by short spurts of losses, are over,'' said John V. N. Klein, a Republican and a former Suffolk County executive. ''They are going to have to fight for every election going forward. From a statewide standpoint, these two counties have been stalwarts, delivering huge pluralities for Republicans. Those pluralities can no longer be taken for granted.''
 The Long Island vote is very much on the minds of party leaders as they debate which candidate for governor to support in 2006. One faction, which includes State Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, has expressed support for Tom Golisano, an upstate billionaire who finances his own campaigns and has run for governor three times as a third party candidate. Another, led by Stephen J. Minarik III, the chairman of the state Republican Party, is endorsing the candidacy of William F. Weld, the former Massachusetts governor, who now wants to run for governor of his native New York.
 Mr. Minarik said in an interview yesterday that be believed Mr. Weld would be more successful at bringing Long Island's Republican voters back into the fold. ''When you look at the Island, I think Bill Weld, if he's our candidate, would help us far better over all,'' he said. ''He'd bring some star quality.''
 Others are not so sure. Representative Peter T. King said that while he liked both men, he wished the party could field a more working-class Republican candidate to appeal to suburban voters. ''We need someone like the Al D'Amato of 1980,'' he said.
 No one is writing off Long Island, which delivered huge margins to Governor Pataki when he ran for a third term in 2002. But analysts say that the Island cannot be taken for granted by Republicans. ''They can't get those huge, guaranteed majorities,'' Mr. King said.
 A decade ago, Mr. King noted, he and his fellow Republicans held four of Long Island's five Congressional seats. Now Mr. King is the lone Republican in the Island's delegation. 
 Democrats, meanwhile, are closing their enrollment gap on Long Island. Nassau County was once to Republican machine politics what Chicago was to Democratic machine politics. New arrivals almost always registered as Republicans, and the machine provided everything from immaculate parks to plentiful county jobs to summer jobs for children. Those days, though, are long gone.
 Less than a decade ago, registered Republicans outnumbered Democrats in Nassau County by more than 100,000 voters. Now their edge has slipped to a little more than 38,000 voters. And in Suffolk County, the Republican advantage has slipped to 65,000 voters, down from nearly 110,000 in 1996, according to state records.
 As the Republicans have lost their edge, the number of voters unaffiliated with any party has grown.
 The changing face of Long Island politics is attributed to a number of factors. 
 The catalyst in Nassau County was the Republican mismanagement that left the county in a serious fiscal crisis, even during the economic boom of the late 1990's. Voters revolted. In Suffolk County, Republicans were implicated in a series of scandals -- some referred to Brookhaven as ''Crookhaven'' -- leaving many voters disenchanted with the local Republican Party and ready for a change. 
 But behind those events, analysts said, are the Island's changing face and demographics as it learns what it is to be an aging suburb. As the suburbs have grown, they have become more developed and densely populated, giving government a new set of problems to contend with. And the demographics of the suburbs have changed as well, absorbing more former city dwellers and racial and ethnic minorities who tend to vote Democratic. 
 Suburbs from Westchester to New Jersey that were once Republican are becoming swing districts, and more Democratic. Long Island is an extreme case. 
 The last bastion of real Republican power on Long Island is now its delegation of state senators, a powerful block in the Senate's Republican conference. Senator Dean G. Skelos is always on the short list of possible successors to Mr. Bruno as Senate majority leader. 
 But as the Island becomes more Democratic, the Republican edge in the State Senate narrows, and as some Long Island senators grow closer to retirement, some Republicans are growing increasingly concerned about holding on to the State Senate. 
 Norman Adler, a political consultant who represents six state senators from Long Island, said he used to begin campaigns by trying to mobilize the Republican base. But, he said: ''When I do my strategizing now, the first place I aim my information is not at affiliated voters, it's at unaffiliated voters. Because they're up for grabs.''
 It is widely known in Albany that State Senator Michael A. L. Balboni, a Nassau County Republican, would like to run for attorney general. But since Democrats narrowly outnumber Republicans in his district, Republicans in the Senate are reluctant to see him step down to run for office, because it would create an open seat they could lose.
 Mr. Balboni's supporters point to Tuesday's election of Maureen O'Connell, a Republican, as Nassau County clerk, as evidence that Republicans can still carry the district. But the prospect of an open Senate seat there certainly appeals to Democrats. 
 State Senator David A. Paterson, the Democratic minority leader, happily offered this of a Balboni candidacy: ''Let's just say he'd be a great attorney general.''
 Senator Balboni said that while there had been what he called ''a target-rich environment for dissatisfied voters,'' he believed the Republican Party could right itself by returning to its core themes of low taxes, jobs and security. 
 ''It's a time of great challenge for Republicans,'' he said, ''but I believe a time of opportunity.'' 
 The transformation of the Island still amazes Senator Paterson, who went to school in Hempstead and later attended Hofstra University. ''One thing we knew growing up was that the Yankees usually own the World Series, the Boston Celtics ruled basketball, and Republicans ruled Long Island politics,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Races in the Region''KEY:+Winner * Incumbent**Winner and change in partyCounty executivesNassau CountyReporting: 100%+Thomas R. Suozzi, D*: 178,133 -- 59%Gregory P. Peterson, R: 114,115 -- 38%Robert A. Bruno, C: 9,097 -- 3%Westchester CountyReporting: 99%+Andrew J. Spano, D*: 106,430 -- 58%Robert P. Astorino, R: 78,082 -- 42%District attorneysNassau CountyReporting: 100%**Kathleen M. Rice, D: 151,819 -- 51%Denis E. Dillon, R*: 143,827 -- 49%Westchester CountyReporting: 99%Janet DiFiore, R: 93,961 -- 51%Tony Castro, D: 86,652 -- 47%Anthony J. De Cintio, O: 2,871 -- 2%MayorsBuffaloReporting: 100%+Byron W. Brown, D: 43,682 -- 64%Kevin J. Helfer, R: 18,578 -- 27%Judith S. Einach, G: 3,397 -- 5%Charles J. Flynn, O: 2,960 -- 4%New HavenReporting: 100%+John DeStefano, D*: 9,199 -- 75%Eric Brown, G: 1,455 -- 12%Gary Jenkins, O: 1,408 -- 12%Leslie Blatteau, WI: 110 -- 1%Roger Uihlein, WI: 21 -- 0%Waterbury, Conn.Reporting: 100%+Michael Jarjura, WI: 7,907 -- 38%Karen Mulcahy, D: 5,455 -- 27%Lawrence DePillo, I: 4,800 -- 23%Thomas Tremaglio, R: 2,143 -- 10%James Ayash, O: 227 -- 1%Michael Petrocelli, WI: 8 -- 0%East HartfordReporting: 100%+Melody Currey, D: 4,375 -- 51%George Franek, R: 2,314 -- 27%Susan Kniep, I: 1,862 -- 22%New York state ballot proposalsQuestion 1: State budget procedure 99%Recommends a new procedure to govern what happens when the governor and the Legislature do not agree on a budget by the start of the fiscal year.+No 1,258,831 -- 64%Yes 693,005 -- 36%Question 2: Transportation bonds 99%Authorizes the creation of debt and the sale of $2.9 billion in bonds to maintain and improve transportation infrastucture.+Yes 1,099,309 -- 55%No 890,502 -- 45%Parties: C-Conservative, D-Democrat, G-Green, I-Independent, IN-Independence, LT-Libertarian, O-Other, R-Republican, SW-Socialist Workers, WF-Working Families, WI-Write-in (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SUBURBS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%)

PERSON: PETER T KING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005



193 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Concerns on Supplier Hurt G.M., Limiting Dow's Gain 

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks ended slightly higher yesterday as oil prices fell to their lowest level in more than three months, but General Motors fell to a 13-year low on concerns about a possible strike at its main supplier of auto parts. 
 Crude oil fell to $58.93 a barrel, helping the shares of retailers like Wal-Mart Stores and those of big industrial companies like United Technologies. 
 But some major oil and gas stocks fell after news late in the session that the Federal Trade Commission had issued subpoenas to big oil companies in an investigation of gasoline prices. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average was up 6.49 points, or 0.06 percent, to end at 10,546.21. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 2.06 points, or 0.17 percent, to 1,220.65. The Nasdaq composite index was up 3.74 points, or 0.17 percent, to 2,175.81. 
 Bonds were lower, with the 10-year Treasury bill falling 22/32, to 96 30/32, and the yield, which moves inversely to the price, rising to 4.64 percent, from 4.55 percent late Tuesday.
 Shares of Wal-Mart rose 1.2 percent, or 59 cents, to $48.20 a share. Wal-Mart's stock is sensitive to swings in oil prices because of their effects on the company's many low-income customers. 
 Crude oil for December delivery fell 78 cents, to $58.93 a barrel, the lowest price since July 22. The government reported a surprising gain in crude inventories in the latest week. 
 But General Motors shares slid and limited the Dow's advance amid increasing concerns that workers at Delphi, its largest parts supplier, could go on strike. There also are worries that G.M. has underfunded its pension plans. Also yesterday, Fitch Ratings lowered G.M.'s debt rating deeper into junk status. 
 G.M.'s stock fell $1.23, or 4.8 percent, to close at $24.63 a share. 
 In the oil patch, shares of Chevron and ConocoPhillips fell after news that the F.T.C. issued subpoenas in connection with an inquiry into high gasoline prices. 
 Chevron's stock fell 1.9 percent, or $1.09, to $56.77, while ConocoPhillips dropped 1.5 percent, or $1.02, to $65.59. Both weighed on the S.& P. 500. 
 In contrast, Exxon Mobil, a Dow component, ended slightly higher, up 0.2 percent, or 13 cents, at $57.50. 
 Executives of Exxon Mobil and four other big oil companies defended their combined quarterly profits of more than $30 billion at a Senate hearing yesterday.
 Among advancing industrial shares, General Electric gained 0.5 percent, or 16 cents, to $33.92. 
 ''There has been catch-up in the mega-caps,'' said Richard Skaggs, portfolio manager at Loomis Sayles in Boston. ''These companies haven't done much in recent months, and they are going to have to participate to some extent to have the traditional year-end rally.'' 
 Earnings from companies like King Pharmaceuticals and Federated Department Stores helped raise investor hopes for a year-end rally. 
 Shares of Federated, the parent of Macy's and Bloomingdale's, climbed 7.7 percent, or $4.94, to $68.85 a share, and King Pharmaceuticals stock climbed 5.5 percent, or 89 cents, to $17 a share. Both companies reported quarterly profit that beat analysts' expectations. 
 The Nasdaq got a boost from shares of Pixar Animation Studios, which rose to a 52-week high of $57.66 a day after reporting a rise in profit and revenue that exceeded Wall Street's expectations. Pixar closed at $56.59, up 11.2 percent.
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of five-year Treasury notes:



 (000 omitted in dollar figures)	 	Price	99.889	High Yield	4.525	Low Yield	4.450	Median Yield	4.502	Total applied for	$36,944,945	Accepted	$15,960,803	Noncompetitive	$182,763	Interest set at	4 1/2	The five-year notes mature Nov. 15, 2010.	 	




GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph ''Five-Year Treasury Notes'' shows the high yields at auction for notes from 2004-05. (Source by Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); CREDIT BUREAUS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); BONDS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); SUBPOENAS (75%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (74%); RETAILERS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); STRIKES (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); UTX (NYSE) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005



194 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: THE VOTERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Crossed Ethnic Barriers For Big Victory

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Diane Cardwell contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg forged his historic re-election victory on Tuesday by drawing roughly half of New York's black voters and about 3 in 10 Latinos to the Republican line, even though he faced a Hispanic challenger who sought to capitalize on ethnic pride, an analysis of voting returns shows. 
 The mayor's wide support among minority voters is a sign that the strategy of the Democrat, Fernando Ferrer, to build on a dependable base of black and Hispanic votes fell victim to emerging political realities: that blacks and Hispanics no longer vote reflexively as a bloc, and that a middle-class coalition can trump traditional ethnic-based appeals. The winning multiethnic coalition turned out to be Mr. Bloomberg's.
He won a second term by wooing liberal defectors from Democratic ranks and by carrying every Assembly district in which white Catholics or Jews predominate. He also carried the only district in which Asians outnumber others. 
 What was most striking was the depth of his support among blacks and Hispanics, whom he aggressively courted in running against the city's first major-party mayoral nominee of Hispanic heritage. Mr. Bloomberg actually won several districts where Hispanics constitute the largest group among the population or the electorate, including the 34th in Queens, which includes parts of Corona, and the 80th District around Pelham Parkway in the Bronx. He also won about half of the mostly black districts.
 ''If Ferrer got about 31 percent of the white vote, that's about what he would need,'' said John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University of New York Graduate Center. ''But the really interesting thing is that he did not get black and Latino support to the extent he needed.''
 Yesterday, the Democratic Party engaged in deep soul-searching in the wake of its embarrassing defeat, as its leaders said the party needed to shun the racial and ethnic politicking of the past. [Page B6.]
 His victory -- 59 percent to 39 percent -- defied the conventional political calculus in what was projected as the first mayoral race in which non-Hispanic whites would be a minority of the electorate. Most analysts said it was too early to draw long-term implications from this campaign for several reasons, including that Mr. Bloomberg spent more than $70 million on his campaign. In addition, not only was the mayor an incumbent in a city that typically gives first-term mayors the benefit of the doubt but also a lifelong Democrat until he first ran for mayor as a Republican in 2001, in contrast to his Republican predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani. 
 ''He changed his party registration, but not his values,'' said Robert Shrum, a media consultant who is now teaching and writing at New York University. ''You cannot imagine Rudy Giuliani getting half of the African-American vote or a big chunk of the Hispanic vote against a Hispanic.''
 In unofficial returns, Mr. Bloomberg got 648,920 votes on the Republican line and 74,715 on the Independence Party line, which meant he spent about $100 a vote to win re-election. 
 ''The record is the record,'' said Edward Skyler, the mayor's communications director. ''The money helps you amplify that record, but you couldn't run an ad that said crime was down 20 percent if it wasn't.''
 After the Republican triumph, Ferrer campaign officials said they faced formidable odds -- perhaps insurmountable odds.
 ''The reality is, when the incumbent has 60 percent job approval and the 'are we going in the right direction' numbers are in the 70's and he outspends his opponent more than 10-to-1, that person is likely to win,'' said Jef Pollock, Mr. Ferrer's pollster. ''I don't know that we've moved beyond ethnic politics, but it's fair to say it's only piece of a larger picture.'' 
 Most news organizations did not invest this year in surveying voters as they leave the polls, a practice that tries to determine voting patterns of people who identify themselves by race, ethnicity, ideology, income and other categories. One, by Pace University, estimated that Mr. Bloomberg got 48 percent support among Democrats to Mr. Ferrer's 50 percent. 
 An analysis of the results by Professor Mollenkopf for The New York Times, on the basis of census population figures in fairly homogenous Assembly districts and a sample of smaller election districts that are even more uniform, found that about half of black voters voted for Mr. Bloomberg. Only 5 percent of that group supported Mr. Giuliani in 1993, 20 percent backed him in 1997, and 25 percent voted for Mr. Bloomberg in 2001. (A much higher proportion supported another Republican, John V. Lindsay, in 1969, but he was running on the Liberal line and against two more conservative candidates.) 
 Mr. Bloomberg lost Harlem but still carried a respectable 45 percent of the vote there. He did best among blacks in middle-class neighborhoods generally and among Caribbean voters. In other largely black areas, he carried the entire 29th Assembly District in southeastern Queens, including parts of St. Albans and Laurelton, by 9,412 to 7,261, according to unofficial returns, and edged Mr. Ferrer in several largely Caribbean districts in central Brooklyn.
 ''You can't win Brooklyn with close to 58 percent unless you're getting a significant number of African-American votes,'' said William T. Cunningham, a senior adviser to Mr. Bloomberg.
 Representative Charles B. Rangel said yesterday that the combination of term limits and Mr. Bloomberg's unprecedented spending ''breaks all the rules,'' including assumptions about ethnic and racial politics. 
 ''People may have a sense of pride, but there's no way for the black or the Puerto Rican community to stick with their own if they're exposed to a guy spending $100 million who appears to be able to appeal to people regardless of their color,'' Mr. Rangel said.
 One reason cited for Mr. Ferrer's mixed support among blacks was an early stumble in which he said that the fatal 1999 police shooting of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed African immigrant, was not a crime. A more fundamental reason for the defections is that immigration has made the black and Hispanic communities increasingly diverse economically and culturally and more receptive to appeals on the issues. 
 ''It's an assumption that people of color would vote for someone of color,'' said Raymond Gamble, a 55-year-old black man who lives in Jamaica, Queens, works for the Housing Authority and voted for Mr. Bloomberg. ''I can't say I would vote for a Republican again in my life. But he didn't give the usual spiel. I looked at the kind of things that I saw coming out of City Hall, some of his objectives and goals on education and affordable housing, and I was impressed. He is someone who has my interests in mind.''
 In 2001, Mr. Bloomberg actually got a larger share of Hispanic votes -- about 47 percent, according to exit polls -- but he was running against Mark Green, who had won the Democratic nomination by defeating Mr. Ferrer in a runoff. 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Ferrer carried only his home borough, the Bronx, won Washington Heights with its Dominican community, but did best in heavily Puerto Rican neighborhoods.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Waiting to vote at Public School 316 in Brooklyn on Tuesday. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg aggressively courted black and Hispanic voters. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); CITIES (79%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); ETHNICITY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); RELIGION (68%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005



195 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: THE DEMOCRATS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: After Ferrer, Beaten Party Looks to 2009

BYLINE: By PATRICK D. HEALY

 BODY:
For New York Democrats, the 2009 race for mayor was all but under way yesterday, as they reckoned with the errors and shortcomings that helped fuel the historic Republican victory of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg on Tuesday.
 Three prominent Democrats who may run in 2009 -- Adolfo Carrion Jr., William C. Thompson Jr. and Anthony D. Weiner -- said their party needed to recalibrate its message to rely less on hopes-and-dreams liberalism and champion pragmatic ideas about security, public schools and the high cost of living in the city.
While those issues were core to the mayoral campaign of Fernando Ferrer, he was widely seen as an imperfect messenger, several Democrats said yesterday -- a fixture of the Bronx clubhouse whose strategy is based on an assumption that Hispanics, blacks and hard-core liberals would vote for a Democrat over a Republican. Mr. Ferrer lost by 20 points. 
 Several leading Democrats and consultants also argued, partly out of self-interest, that it was time for a new generation to run for office and create a campaign strategy that went beyond the multiracial coalitions of the past. They also faulted the Democratic nominating process, in which candidates appear before political clubs and labor unions and often take the most liberal positions possible in hopes of winning votes.
 ''This may be the moment where, in all self-help regimens, you hit bottom and search for real recovery,'' said Mr. Weiner, a congressman from Brooklyn who was the runner-up for the Democratic mayoral nomination this year. ''We're not connecting with middle-class voters, we're not connecting with voters who aspire to the middle class, we're not offering a forward-looking agenda.
 ''We forget that just saying, 'I'm not the other guy' doesn't make a very appealing message to a lot of voters,'' he added.
 Mr. Weiner and other Democrats said it was unlikely that a candidate as wealthy as Mr. Bloomberg, a self-made billionaire, would run in 2009 and once more outspend opponents several times over. Mr. Bloomberg is barred by term limits from running again.
 ''Democrats hold 95 percent of the positions in this city, but we lost the one race where the other guy spent more than $70 million,'' said Mr. Thompson, the city comptroller.
 Yet Mr. Thompson also argued that Democrats needed to speak more realistically about voters' concerns about housing, security, education and jobs. Mr. Ferrer strove for soaring rhetoric, about building ''a bridge of hope and opportunity'' to unite ''the two New Yorks'' of the haves and have-nots. Yet New Yorkers are most likely to respond to clear ideas that are compelling, memorable and down-to-earth, Mr. Thompson and other Democrats said.
 ''I think we have to address real issues -- not in the most liberal sense, but in the most realistic sense,'' he said. ''You have to be pragmatic. You can't overpromise.''
 Mr. Carrion, the Bronx borough president, said the 60's-style language of liberalism -- evoking the Great Society, the War on Poverty and appeals to ethnicity and class -- had failed Mr. Ferrer in this campaign and needed to be enhanced.
 ''Part of our challenge is moving away from the traditional language and speaking in a different way, a way that appeals to New Yorkers from Eastern Europe or West Africa or the Upper East Side,'' Mr. Carrion said.
 As an example, Mr. Carrion referred to some of his own political imagery in the Bronx, where voters re-elected him Tuesday with 86 percent of the vote.
 ''The best social program is a job. We believe in economic growth. Affordable housing is all about building a stronger city,'' he said. ''The Great Society language was that we need to carry the burden of the poor, but the new language is that we need to invest in those areas that give us the best return in our future.''
 Echoing Democrats who were wary of speaking publicly, the Rev. Al Sharpton said new political messages should come from a younger generation that is closer to new voters and fresh ideas. Mr. Sharpton, while a champion of the multiracial coalitions of old, argued that they would be stronger with more young people in them.
 ''The playbook's got to change to the degree that absolutely younger, newer more connected faces rise up,'' Mr. Sharpton said. ''The old consultants and players are obsolete,'' he added, refusing to name names.
 Mr. Sharpton is close to Mr. Thompson, who at 52 is only three years younger than Mr. Ferrer, yet projects more energy and a crisper focus with voters and reporters. Mr. Thompson said he would probably form a committee next year to begin raising money and building interest for a possible mayoral bid in 2009.
 Colleagues of Mr. Weiner, who is 41, and Mr. Carrion, who is 44, said both men would do the same in the next year or two. Mr. Carrion declined to comment on his own plans, while Mr. Weiner said his immediate focus was to work with Mayor Bloomberg on the city's agenda in Washington.
 Other Democrats, while offering kind words for Mr. Ferrer, said New Yorkers seemed more comfortable with the style of leadership that Mr. Bloomberg offered, especially after 9/11: a managerial, no-nonsense approach that focused on security and seemed beholden to no one.
 ''It all comes down to the candidates: what are their personalities, what're their styles of leadership, how strong do they seem?'' said David N. Dinkins, the former mayor.
 Mario M. Cuomo, the former governor, argued that along with an aura of leadership, good ideas were the best building blocks for victory, and that New York Democrats could do the national party a favor by developing new ones.
 ''We need to talk about the fragmented economy, the sliding middle class, the problems in education and health care,'' Mr. Cuomo said. ''What will win is not one foot on the boat and one foot on the dock, but absolute decisiveness about our ideas.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Al Sharpton says the Democratic Party needs new ideas and younger candidates to make a stronger showing in mayoral elections. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TERM LIMITS (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); COST OF LIVING (70%); CITY LIFE (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); LABOR UNIONS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); ANTHONY D WEINER (78%); ADOLFO CARRION JR (58%); AL SHARPTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005



196 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Lowers 2001 Profit; Error Cited 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 9 

 BODY:
General Motors said on Wednesday that it overstated its 2001 results by as much as $400 million, or 35 percent, and said that it might have to restate results for the following years as well. 
 The company said a review of its supplier payments for the years 2000 through 2005 concluded that it erroneously credited some payments to its results for 2001, instead of recording the payments for later years.
The restatement was the latest bad news for G.M., the world's biggest carmaker, whose outlook has been pummeled by the bankruptcy filing at the Delphi Corporation, its biggest parts supplier. 
 Even before the filing was disclosed on Wednesday, G.M. shares fell $1.23, to $24.63, only a penny above its 52-week low, over fears of a strike at Delphi, which is demanding sharply lower wage and benefit rates from its workers. The shares of G.M. have fallen nearly 40 percent so far this year.
 G.M., like its crosstown rival, the Ford Motor Company, reported a sharp decline in October auto sales, coming after a strong increase in sales this summer, when the auto companies offered consumers the same steep discounts they gave their employees. 
 G.M.'s credit rating also received a blow Wednesday. The Fitch Ratings agency put its rating on the automaker's debt deeper into junk status. 
 On Thursday, members of the United Automobile Workers at G.M. will finish voting on a tentative agreement that would cut their health care benefits. The agreement, which would give G.M. modest relief on its medical costs, is expected to be approved.
 In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, G.M. said that it would revise its 2001 results and that it estimated it had overstated results by $300 million to $400 million, 25 percent to 35 percent of its net income for the year. But the company said it had not determined a final number. 
 After the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, G.M. led the auto industry with an aggressive no-interest financing program that helped revive the economy and led to some of the strongest monthly sales in history.
 G.M. earned $1.2 billion in 2001, after accounting for the sale of Hughes Electronics, which doubled its net income. 
 Without the Hughes sale, G.M. earned $601 million, meaning that the restatement could be more than half those results if the figure comes in at the high end of G.M.'s estimate.
 G.M. said it might restate results for some other years, which had been affected by ''erroneous accounting.'' It did not expect those changes to have a material effect.
 Because of the review, the audit committee of G.M.'s board said in a statement that ''investors should no longer rely on G.M.'s previously filed financial statements for that year, nor the related auditors' reports.''
 G.M. said that a review of its supplier payments was still under way and that it expected to complete its investigation by the time it filed its 2005 annual report.
 Last month, the Securities and Exchange Commission said it had issued subpoenas in its own investigation of G.M.'s dealings on pensions and other matters with Delphi, the largest parts maker in the United States.
 Delphi filed for Chapter 11 protection in October, after it failed to reach agreement with G.M. on a bailout package and with the U.A.W. on wage and benefit cuts.
 Delphi has said that it wants to cut the $27-an-hour pay of union hourly workers to $9 or $10.50.
 That has angered Delphi workers, who have threatened to strike if the company asks a federal bankruptcy judge to void their labor agreements and impose the lower rates. Federal bankruptcy law allows a company to ask that contracts be set aside, if it can prove that lower wage and benefit rates are vital to its survival.
 A strike at any of Delphi's crucial plants could sharply curtail production at G.M., which like other auto companies uses a just-in-time inventory system that relies on frequent deliveries of parts. For example, a seven-week strike in 1998 by workers at two G.M. parts plants in Flint, Mich., nearly crippled its North American production.
 As a result, G.M. is said to be ramping up production of some vehicles, in case a strike leaves it short. The company is on the verge of introducing a critical new line of pickup trucks, code-named GMT-900, and it is counting on them to reverse its losses and restore its profitability. G.M. has lost about $3 billion thus far this year.
 This week, a coalition of six unions, including the U.A.W., the United Steelworkers and the International Union of Electrical Workers, said they would join forces in an effort to fight the cuts at Delphi.
 A grass-roots effort has also popped up among workers in Flint, Mich., who plan to petition the federal bankruptcy court to keep the Delphi workers' contract intact.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 14, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about a restatement of 2001 earnings by General Motors misstated the company's net income for that year. It was $601 million. (The $1.2 billion figure represented income from continuing operations after G.M. recalculated 2001 results to reflect the sale of Hughes Electronics in 2003.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); AUDITS (74%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (73%); APPROVALS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); HEALTH CARE (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%); TERRORISM (61%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005



197 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: One Tempting Remedy for the Alternative Minimum Tax Has Flaws of Its Own 

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger. 
Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University. His Web site is www.krueger.princeton.edu.

 BODY:
THE recommendations of President Bush's advisory panel on federal tax reform, announced last week, were greeted by Congress and the administration with all the enthusiasm of a recommendation for root canal surgery. Although the panel proposed two sensible plans to reduce distortions in the tax code and improve fairness, its proposal to cut the popular mortgage interest deduction, included in both plans, almost assures that the plans will not reach Congress as written.
 Perhaps the most likely of the panel's proposals to be enacted is the elimination of the deduction for state and local taxes. This is a tempting but flawed way to ''fix'' the alternative minimum tax. Eliminating the state and local deduction would make it harder for state and local governments to raise revenue for essential public services and result in more distortions and inequities from the tax code. 
 ''We should be very wary about getting rid of this worthwhile deduction unless it's our last resort,'' said James R. Hines Jr., a public finance economist at the University of Michigan. 
 The panel's report is now being reviewed by the Treasury secretary, John W. Snow, who will decide which, if any, of the proposals to send to the president. Without pressure from the White House -- and a willingness by the president to roll back some of his previously enacted tax cuts -- Congress is unlikely to consider a major tax overhaul anytime soon. 
 The report may do more than gather dust, however. Eventually, Congress will have to consider options to raise revenue, and the report will be a natural source of ideas. 
 More immediately, Congress is likely to address the alternative minimum tax, which will ensnare 21.6 million taxpayers in 2006, up from 4.1 million in 2005, absent changes. The A.M.T., which was established to make a small number of wealthy tax avoiders pay some income tax, sets up a parallel tax structure.
 The definition of taxable income under the minimum tax is broader than under the regular tax code; most important, it does not allow deductions for state and local taxes. 
 Congress is likely to reduce the reach of the minimum tax. But reining in or repealing the A.M.T. will be expensive; full repeal could cost $1.2 trillion over the next 10 years if the president's tax cuts are made permanent, and $611 billion if they are not. 
 Eliminating the deduction for state and local taxes would bring in almost enough revenue to pay for repealing the A.M.T. if the president's tax cuts remain -- and more than enough if the tax cuts expire -- according to a study by Kim Rueben of the Urban Institute. 
 On the surface, that approach appears to make sense, since taxpayers caught in the A.M.T. lose the deduction. Why shouldn't everybody? 
 If state and local taxes were mainly used for services that taxpayers directly benefit from, like garbage collection, the case for deducting the taxes would be weak. But this is not the case. Most state and local tax revenue is used for education, health care, social services, highways and other programs that probably do not directly benefit the individual taxpayer nearly as much as the community at large. 
 Additionally, because people are geographically mobile, states and cities lose residents if they set taxes too high. The state and local deduction reduces this distortion. 
 Eliminating the state and local deduction would also cause a distortion between support for charities and similar government programs. Why allow people to deduct charitable contributions to a homeless shelter, but not their state taxes used for the same purpose? The tax panel's call for a tax credit for charitable donations, but not for state and local taxes, would worsen this distortion. A more rational approach would base deductibility on the function of the funds. 
 Eliminating the state and local deduction would also create a peculiar inequity in the tax code: American taxpayers would be allowed to deduct income taxes that they paid to foreign governments but not those paid to their state or local government. 
 State and local taxes have been deductible since the start of the federal income tax in 1913. After Hurricane Katrina revealed serious shortcomings in the infrastructure of state and local government, Congress should think carefully about making it harder for states and municipalities to raise funds for essential government functions.
 Indeed, it would make more sense to allow deductions for state and local taxes from the A.M.T. income base than to eliminate the state and local deduction from the regular income tax.
 My Economic Scene column on Aug. 18, 2005 (''Fair? Balanced? A Study Finds It Does Not Matter'') reported on a research paper by Prof. Stefano DellaVigna of the University of California, Berkeley, and Prof. Ethan Kaplan of the Institute for International Economic Studies at Stockholm University. Their paper concluded that the spread of the Fox News Channel across 8,630 towns and cities in 24 states from 1996 to 2000 had no detectable effect on voter behavior.
 The professors have continued their research, adding data on four additional states, assigning greater weight to areas with higher voter turnout and eliminating towns with multiple cable providers or questionable data.
 They conclude from their latest research that from the 1996 presidential election to the one in 2000, ''Republicans gained 0.4 to 0.6 percentage points in the towns which broadcast Fox News.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX REFORM (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INCOME TAX (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%) Taxation; Alternative Minimum Tax; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Law and Legislation; Elections; News and News Media; Finances; States (US); Housing; Taxation; Mortgages; Research; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%) Fox News Channel

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush; Alan B Krueger; Stefano Dellavigna; Ethan Kaplan

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005



198 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Deputy, Back in U.S., Strives to Rebuild Reputation

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS; Douglas Jehl contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 9 

 BODY:
Ahmad Chalabi, once an Iraqi exile leader and now a deputy prime minister, began his campaign for American rehabilitation here on Wednesday by dismissing the claim that he lured the Bush administration into war with inaccurate intelligence on Iraqi weapons. 
 Appearing before a friendly audience at the American Enterprise Institute, Mr. Chalabi declined to address why so many people, Iraqi and American, were so wrong about Saddam Hussein's capabilities to produce chemical, biological and nuclear weapons. 
''It is not useful for me to comment on it,'' Mr. Chalabi told the audience.
 To his critics Mr. Chalabi, who was once the Pentagon's favorite to lead Iraq after Mr. Hussein, had the most to gain from an American invasion. 
 But on Wednesday he maintained that the intelligence that he had passed on had little to do with the administration's insistence that the United States had to go to war to disrupt Mr. Hussein's ability to use illegal weapons. 
 ''This is an urban myth,'' Mr. Chalabi said. He said a United States government investigation into the issue ''debunks the entire idea'' that information provided by him had led to war.
 The report he cited, a presidential inquiry into prewar intelligence failures, concluded that information provided by Mr. Chalabi's group, the Iraqi National Congress, had had ''a minimal impact'' on assessments of Iraq's capacities. 
 The story does not end there, however: the Senate intelligence committee has promised to issue a report that examines, among other things, the use by American agencies of information provided by Mr. Chalabi. 
 Another report, issued in 2004 by the Senate intelligence committee, did conclude that parts of the National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq produced in 2002 had been based on information provided by a defector associated with Mr. Chalabi's group who had previously been identified as a fabricator.
 Mr. Chalabi's visit in Washington, his first in nearly two years, was bound to reopen many unanswered questions. 
 At the same time, the visit could serve as a barometer of his political future. From his status as the Bush administration's favored Iraqi, Mr. Chalabi became, over the past 18 months, a pariah. The low point came in May 2004, when American and Iraqi intelligence officers stormed Mr. Chalabi's home in Baghdad and accused him of passing classified information to Iran.
 Mr. Chalabi denied the charges then, and he denied them again on Wednesday. American officials say they are investigating the leaking of classified information, of which, they say, Mr. Chalabi may have been a recipient. The status of the investigation is unknown.
 Since that moment, in May 2004, Mr. Chalabi's political course has zigged and zagged more than once. Last year Mr. Chalabi, a secular mathematician with a doctorate from the University of Chicago, moved closer to Iraq's Islamists, and he occasionally echoed some of their anti-American rhetoric.
 Now, having risen to deputy prime minister, he has begun to tack back, breaking with the Shiite coalition that won the election in January and shoring up his ties with the Bush administration. He appears to be maneuvering towards a possible run at becoming prime minister after parliamentary elections in December.
 When asked by a reporter about that prospect, Mr. Chalabi gave a coy response. ''That's for me to know and for you to find out,'' he said, prompting laughter from the audience.
 Mr. Chalabi met Wednesday with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and the national security adviser, Stephen J. Hadley. He is to meet next week with the secretary of defense, Donald H. Rumsfeld and, Mr. Chalabi said, with Vice President Dick Cheney.
 Adam Ereli, a spokesman for the State Department, said Mr. Chalabi and Ms. Rice had a ''good meeting'' that ranged across an array of political, security and economic issues.
 Administration officials say they are staying neutral on the campaign for prime minister. They also invited Vice President Adil Abdul Mahdi to Washington this week; Mr. Mahdi is considered a potential prime minister as well.
 Mr. Chalabi's return to Washington prompted some colorful moments. 
 One was in the dining room of a Washington restaurant where Mr. Chalabi and his entourage sat down to eat. Mr. Abdul Mahdi, a friend since they were boys, sat down a few tables away. Joining Mr. Abdul Mahdi was Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser in the first Bush administration, who has expressed public skepticism about the war.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ahmad Chalabi, whose campaign against Saddam Hussein influenced President Bush's decision to invade Iraq, in Washington yesterday. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (58%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) ILLINOIS, USA (50%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005



199 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1646 words

HEADLINE: Got 2 Extra Hours for Your E-Mail?

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
EVEN in his sleep, Stever Robbins, an executive adviser, could not escape his e-mail. ''I was buried under a pile of e-mail,'' Mr. Robbins, 41, said. ''I can't remember ever having a nightmare. For my first nightmare to be about e-mail, that was pathetic.''
 In his waking life, at the consulting company where he worked, Mr. Robbins sometimes had to troll through 120 e-mail messages a day, many of them from his boss. ''By the time I got done triaging the e-mail, I didn't have energy to do the rest of the work,'' Mr. Robbins said.
So Mr. Robbins sent his boss and colleagues a series of recommendations about changing their e-mail ways. When the suggestions were ignored, Mr. Robbins quit his job and went into business for himself, helping executives improve their job performance. High on his list of priorities was helping them wrestle down their e-mail. 
 ''I quit my job because of the stress, and it had almost everything to do with e-mail,'' he said.
 It was not so long ago that e-mail dashed around the world with abundant good cheer, prompting people to race to the keyboard with anticipation, punctuate their sign-offs with smiley faces or TTYL (talk to you later) and express general wonderment at how life was ever lived before the in-box was invented.
 But now that it has become an essential form of communication -- with traffic exploding from 5.1 million messages in 2000 to 135.6 million messages in 2005, according to the Radicati Group, a technology and market research firm in Palo Alto, Calif. -- e-mail is causing as much distress as delight. And it's driving an increasing number of employers, bosses and workers to find ways to control or curtail the load. 
 ''You have to be smart about how you use e-mail,'' said David Strom, editor in chief of Tom's Hardware Guide, a technology review Web site. ''Otherwise you let it ruin your life.''
 There is no doubt that e-mail has become a fast, efficient and almost indispensable workplace tool. But it has also bred its own varieties of stress, from the panic that ensues after sending a compromising message to the wrong person to the unease that festers when a message goes unacknowledged.
 The rampant office practice of ''cc-ing'' colleagues and bosses (carbon copying, to use the term of the ancients) has also heightened anxieties by forcing an ever-widening circle of people to respond immediately. Even vacation is no longer an automatic escape valve, not with the lure of laptops and Internet cafes.
 The popularity of wireless connections and hand-held devices like BlackBerries has only deepened the e-mail deluge. And then there is the scourge of spam, which still manages to stay one step ahead of the most aggressive filters.
 Perhaps e-mail's biggest source of stress, though, is the overstuffed in-box. Many employees, both bosses and subordinates, commonly receive 150 e-mail messages a day, consultants say, and some high-powered clients can be peppered with 50 an hour.
 ''You plow through e-mail and feel accomplished, and then you log on the next time and see the little number on the left side of the screen that tells you you have 200 e-mails in your box,'' said Anna Marta Sala, 40, who is president and owner of AMS Artists, which provides management and services for musicians.
 And because e-mail is the quickest form of communication, it's often perceived as demanding a quick response. ''My shoulders are up around my ears with the pressure to respond immediately,'' Ms. Sala said. 
 It's a complaint that Julie Morgenstern, a time management expert and best-selling author whose latest book is ''Never Check E-Mail in the Morning,'' said she hears frequently. 
 ''We are all addicted to it on some level,'' she said of e-mail. ''There is a fear that if you don't check e-mail, you are missing something major. If you don't answer it right away, you look incompetent; you are not competing properly. Your client, your customer, your boss will move on to the next person. That is stressful.'' 
 Dealing with e-mail -- filing it, cataloging it, prioritizing it -- has added hours of extra work a week, much of it done by people in the late evening and early morning. In a recent survey by America Online and Opinion Research Corporation, 41 percent of the respondents said they checked their e-mail in the morning before going to work. More than 25 percent said they had never gone more than a few days without checking e-mail, with 60 percent saying they check it on vacation. Four percent looked at e-mail in the bathroom.
 The onslaught has given rise to a cottage industry of consultants who advise companies -- including Microsoft, which helped create e-mail -- on how to juggle their e-mail messages and focus on being more proactive than reactive, a difficulty in today's e-mail-intense corporate world. 
 ''The influx of e-mail never stops, particularly in a global economy,'' Ms. Mogenstern said. ''You could always check e-mail. And people are still programmed to wait for things to calm down in order to do proactive stuff. 'When it quiets down, when I get through this flood, this batch, these to-dos, I will get proactive.' But there never is a quiet time.''
 ''People have to be able to pull away from the reactiveness, close the door, get quiet. You have to develop those muscles again.'' 
 Michelle LaBrosse, the chief executive of Cheetah Learning, a management training company, was so determined to cut back her e-mail load -- 100 on a slow day -- that she told her 100 employees that she planned to collect $5 from anyone who sent her an unnecessary electronic message. The plan backfired: people stopped sending her e-mail altogether. Instead, she chose to talk to the worst offenders and asked them for a little restraint. Now she has honed a tough love approach to e-mail: Don't respond. ''If they figure out that this is a way they can't communicate, they stop sending it,'' she said. 
 Her policy runs against the grain of a workplace culture of pervasive carbon copying, a practice that can produce its own strain of e-mail anxiety. Someone carbons a message to a boss and then to eight other people, which in the power-play world of the office forces everyone to respond to the message right away, no matter how unnecessary, lest they be seen as negligent. When memos and letters were copied on paper, there was less pressure to jump in unnecessarily because of the time and effort it took to type up a reply and get it to the right person.
 Writing an e-mail message, for all its supposed informality, can also quietly ratchet up stress levels as people strive, in much less time than before, for the correct tone, the appropriate grammar and pitch-perfect brevity. People ''don't take the time to think things through,'' Ms. Morgenstern said. ''A lot of mistakes are made.'' 
 Jeff Jaenicke, a supervisor at a financial institution, said e-mail can breed a touch of paranoia. When he sends an e-mail, he said, he finds himself scouring the message for goofs, or to see if the tone is right. If someone doesn't respond quickly enough, he said, insecurity kicks in. He chalks up one lost friendship to a political joke he sent to a friend, a Republican, during the Republican National Convention last year. ''I tend to make jokes when I talk,'' he said. ''I think I'm funny. But you look at e-mail -- I'm not a writer -- and it's completely different.''
 Even more cause for work-force anxiety is the increasingly commonplace and entirely legal practice of corporate snooping. Companies are now routinely monitoring computer use and e-mail to protect proprietary information, like corporate strategies and research; to increase productivity; and to inoculate themselves against prosecutors. Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general, has made a career out of collecting e-mail messages to root out wrongdoing at financial institutions. 
 A survey of 850 professionals this year by the American Management Association and the ePolicy Institute, a consulting firm, found that 55 percent of the companies said they ''retain and review'' their workers' e-mail; that a quarter of the companies had fired employees for violating e-mail policies; and that 20 percent had their e-mail subpoenaed by courts and regulators at some point. The list of companies and employees who have suffered from a click of the send button is long. One glaring example is Henry Blodget, the former Merrill Lynch stock analyst who was barred from Wall Street in 2003 after his e-mail messages revealed that he had been systematically inflating research on Internet companies to win investment banking deals. Large companies now readily use software to monitor, organize and archive e-mail. Financial institutions are legally required to save e-mail for at least six years. 
 Some companies preserve e-mail on tapes, CD's and DVD's. To protect themselves and their employees, most companies have adopted an e-mail protocol: no salty language, for example; no discriminatory, derogatory or defamatory remarks; no transfer of company information.
 Still, e-mail indiscretion can be a tough habit to break. Earlier this year, Harry C. Stonecipher, the former chief executive of Boeing, was fired after it was discovered that he was having an extramarital affair with an employee. A saucy e-mail was his undoing. And last week, the reputation of Michael D. Brown, the former director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, took another hit when lighthearted e-mail messages he exchanged with a subordinate in the wake of Hurricane Katrina (''I am a fashion god,'' he wrote) were made public.
 Janis Fisher Chan, who holds business writing seminars and who wrote a book this year titled ''E-Mail: A Write It Well Guide,'' cautions clients about the risks of e-mail. ''It's like taking a megaphone and shouting it out from the top of the building,'' she said. ''E-mail lingers.''


CORRECTION-DATE: November 11, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Thursday Styles yesterday about the stress many e-mail users experience because of the flood of messages they receive misstated the volume of e-mail traffic measured by a research firm, the Radicati Group. From 2000 to 2005, the group says, messages have exploded to 135.6 billion daily from 5.1 billion. (The figures are not in the millions.)

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Amy Portnoy)(pgs. G1, G2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (60%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (50%) Labor; Electronic Mail ; Computers and the Internet; Working Hours

COMPANY: TOM'S HARDWARE GUIDE INC (63%)

PERSON: Lizette Alvarez

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005



200 of 597 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2005 ELECTIONS: DETROIT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Turnaround Leads Mayor To a Surprising Victory 

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: DETROIT, Nov. 9 

 BODY:
Kwame M. Kilpatrick, the city's first-term mayor who has been dogged by scandal and budget deficits, pulled out a surprise re-election victory on Tuesday over the opponent he had trailed markedly in the primary. 
 Mr. Kilpatrick was helped by his appearance at the highly publicized funeral of Rosa Parks and by the overwhelming support of young voters. And in the end, Detroit seemed unwilling to let anyone determine that its mayor was too troubled to run this troubled city. 
Addressing supporters on Wednesday morning, the mayor painted his victory as a mirror image of Detroit's broader struggle. ''I just want to say to Detroiters, often times we've been maligned,'' he said. ''Often times we've been the butt of a lot of jokes. But today you stood up. Today, the world, the nation has recognized what has happened.''
 Most polls predicted an easy victory for Freman Hendrix, who was deputy mayor for Mr. Kilpatrick's predecessor and who said he would restore dignity to the mayor's office and bring prosperity back to the city. With Mr. Kilpatrick's stumbles and the economy suffering, political analysts said the race was Mr. Hendrix's to lose. 
 Known as the ''hip-hop mayor'' by admirers and antagonists alike, Mr. Kilpatrick was embarrassed by reports that he had spent city money on himself and his family, buying a new Lincoln Navigator for his wife and paying for expensive dinners and spa visits. 
 Mr. Hendrix won the primary race by 10 percentage points, and the gap between the two grew to 20 points in some polls. Until the final 10 days of the campaign, Mr. Kilpatrick trailed Mr. Hendrix by double digits. 
 Then, as the gap was just beginning to close, Ms. Parks, the civil rights icon, died on Oct. 24. Mr. Kilpatrick's widely televised eulogy at her funeral on Nov. 2 moved the mayor closer to his challenger.
 ''It gave him free exposure,'' said Ed Sarpolus, vice president of the Michigan polling firm EPIC-MRA, whose tracking poll showed a close race in the days after the funeral. ''It was like a free campaign ad. He never had the money to do much advertising, so that was like the beginning of his advertising campaign.''
 On Election Day, Mr. Kilpatrick won 53 percent of the vote to 47 percent for Mr. Hendrix. By giving the mayor such a comfortable margin of victory, political analysts said, Detroiters were dismissing the chorus of criticism that often followed Mr. Kilpatrick. 
 ''The criticism actually added legitimacy and luster to Kilpatrick's political identity,'' said Vincent Hutchings, a political science professor at the University of Michigan. ''The more that other people criticized him, somehow the more authoritative he becomes. It demonstrated his ability to get under the skin of the power structure.''
 Many of Mr. Kilpatrick's supporters said the criticism made them come to his defense. ''We don't like to see our own attacked,'' said Shelia McBride, a 42-year-old Detroiter who was celebrating at the mayor's victory party early Wednesday morning. ''And the fact of the matter is he was attacked. The media went after him like never before. It was ridiculous how they did that. And at the end of the day, we didn't like that.''
 Mr. Kilpatrick also benefited from the generation he aggressively courted. Voters under 40 supported him by a 2-to-1 margin, according to EPIC-MRA. That age group accounted for about a quarter of all votes cast, Mr. Sarpolus said, and was a decisive factor in the mayor's victory. 
 At 31, Mr. Kilpatrick became the youngest mayor ever elected in Detroit. Now 35, he campaigned as a symbol of the future of the city. ''He shows a young spirit,'' said Barry Ferguson, a 24-year-old security guard from Detroit. ''He's not just focused on right now, he's trying to focus on our future. And if it was up to me, I'd vote for him for the next 16 years.''
 With his critics quieted for now, the primary question is whether Mr. Kilpatrick can lead the city in the type of turnaround that he pulled off in his own campaign. 
 ''The elephant in the room is the deficit,'' said Lyke Thompson, a professor at Wayne State University in Detroit. The city projects a shortfall of $130 million to $300 million this year, and has already tried to bridge the gap by cutting back on services like trash pickup and laying off police officers.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kwame M. Kilpatrick yesterday after his victory speech. Most polls had predicted that his opponent would be the one with the smile. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) 

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters; Kwame M (Mayor) Kilpatrick; Freman Hendrix; Rosa Parks

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2005

 
