

1201 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; POLITICAL ECONOMY; Pg. 

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Getting Capitalism Back on Its Feet

BYLINE: By HUGO DIXON | REUTERS

 BODY:
Last week I gave a speech on ''healthy capitalism'' at Oxford University. Before doing so, I tried the idea out on an academic friend of mine. He scoffed at it. For him, ''healthy capitalism'' was an oxymoron. Five years after the start of the world's worst financial crisis in decades, it is easy to mock capitalism. The system ran amok -- leading to debt, unemployment and shrinking economies.
But that is precisely why the world needs healthy capitalism. Health involves vigor, well-being and resilience. Capitalism -- with its basis in free enterprise and private property -- can have all those qualities, provided that warped incentives are corrected and the culture of greed is tempered. State socialism certainly cannot. The practical alternative is to reform capitalism, not throw it away. 
But how should it be reformed? After the tribulations of recent years, the conventional wisdom is that the problem has been too much freedom. That, though, is a misdiagnosis. Most of the diseases that have become apparent during the crisis have been caused by a distortion of free enterprise, rather than too much freedom.
Sickness No. 1 was Alan Greenspan's habit of lowering interest rates at the first sign of trouble during the pre-crunch era. Investors dubbed this the ''Greenspan put.'' The theory was that since the U.S. Federal Reserve would always ride to the rescue, it made sense to take big risks. Fear was numbed and greed left untrammeled. The natural balance of a healthy organism was distorted.
Central bankers do have a role in mitigating the extremes of the economic cycle. But it is vital that in doing so, they do not just stoke up more trouble. They need to have the expertise to recognize bubbles and the courage to prick them -- an idea that has, thankfully, gained currency in the post-Greenspan era.
The second malady was caused by an excessive willingness to bail out bankrupt banks. In a well-functioning free market, investors would bear the consequences of poor decisions. If a bank teetered on the brink, shareholders would be wiped out and bondholders would suffer. But with the exception of Lehman Brothers and a few much smaller cases, bondholders were bailed out.
This was understandable, given the fear of indirect effects. But a healthy body has old cells dying and new ones being born. A well-functioning financial system also has to allow for death and renewal. Propping up zombie banks debilitates the whole economy. Meanwhile, the message that foolish risk-taking will not be punished encourages more folly. This is why reforms in the pipeline that would allow banks to be wound down without causing the entire system to collapse are so important.
The third illness is caused by the heads-I-win-tails-you-lose bets that financiers and traders were able to enjoy during the upswing. If everything went well, they made a fortune; if everything collapsed, taxpayers picked up the pieces. Not surprisingly, they spun the roulette wheel.
Such privatization of gains and socialization of losses is not healthy capitalism. It is a caricature of the free market. Again, various attempts are being made to ensure that people bear the responsibility for their actions, even if the consequences are not apparent for several years. Doing so will not just mean that the right people pay when things blow up; it should reduce the chance that things blow up in the first place.
The fourth disease is caused by distortions in the tax system. The most egregious is the ability of companies in most of the world to deduct interest costs before calculating the profits on which they have to pay tax. Payments to shareholders, by contrast, are typically not tax-deductible. This skewed playing field gives companies incentives to leverage themselves up to the gills. That happened during the bubble particularly with banks, private equity groups and real estate businesses -- all of which then got into trouble.
Healthy systems are balanced. The tax-deductibility of interest unbalances the economy. There are various ways of curing the disease -- for example, by removing the tax loophole and making compensating cuts in corporate tax rates so that business over all does not pay more. Sadly, only a few countries have started to address this problem.
Most definitions of health talk about mental as well as physical well-being. One can make a similar point for capitalism: Values matter as well as structure. The past 30 years have brought the rise of the ''greed is good'' culture, as epitomized by Gordon Gekko in the film ''Wall Street.''
Greed is a natural emotion that has some healthy aspects. It cannot and should not be removed from economic body. But it does need to be balanced by other motivations. The most important of these is the concept of service. Businesses need to be asking always: How are we adding value to our customers and society at large?
Most successful companies do this. But many financial institutions failed to think through whether their products were socially valuable. Merely relying on the theory that the market's invisible hand will reconcile private greed with the greater good is not enough, when we know how often capitalism is rigged.
Businesspeople and financiers should never forget that capitalism rests on the consent of the people. As years of economic gloom gnaw away at that support, the challenge is to show that capitalism can be healthy. That requires changes in both structures and mind-set.
Hugo Dixon is the founder and editor of Reuters Breakingviews.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BONDS (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); INTEREST RATES (51%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1202 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: U.A.E. Moves Toward Paperless Classrooms

BYLINE: By SARA HAMDAN

 BODY:
DUBAI -- Ahmed bin Futais is not carrying a heavy backpack with massive textbooks around Zayed University 's Dubai campus this year. Instead, he has an iPad.
''I used to use it just for games, but now we use it for everything from presentations to study groups,'' said Mr. Bin Futais, 19, a second-year student majoring in multimedia design. ''Even when it comes to sketching for art class, I use the AutoCAD application instead of pencil and paper.''
Last year, the United Arab Emirates decided to turn a product that was already popular with students into an academic tool. 
So when school began in September, 14,000 tablets were handed out to all first-year students in the country's three major higher-education institutions: United Arab Emirates University , Zayed University and the Higher Colleges of Technology.
''Everyone's on mobiles and iPads, so we thought this was the right time and place for what has now become the largest systematic deployment of any mobile device in schools in the world,'' said Jace Hargis, director of Abu Dhabi Women's College and Khalifa City Women's College, both of which are part of the Higher Colleges of Technology. Dr. Hargis is also a member of the iPad initiative steering committee.
''Now, the goal is to roll it out to all students so that in four years, we will have complete saturation,'' he said.
It is not about fun and games. The U.A.E. has an urgent educational need to address. Young men make up only 30 percent of university enrollment , and teachers often struggle to find ways to engage and motivate students who rely on the promise of public-sector jobs.
Education experts hope that the tablets will help raise low test scores; bridge the gap between classroom learning and practical workplace skills; and promote more diverse fields of study in a region where students are often pushed into subjects like business.
Tablet use has already spread around the world, particularly in the United States. In autumn 2011, New York City public schools paid $1.3 million for 2,000 iPads distributed across the five boroughs, including 300 iPads sent to a high school in the Bronx. In Chicago, 200 public schools followed suit.
Younger students have benefited as well. Six middle schools in California began using an iPad-only algebra course created by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt this year. And in Arizona, 36 kindergarten children were given iPads as a learning tool.
While iPads seem to be the tablet of choice, other devices are also being used. Kajeet, an American cellphone carrier, will give Android tablets to 120 public school students in Virginia and 180 to public school students in Chicago for the 2012-2013 academic year.
At the other end of the spectrum, tablets are becoming increasingly popular at the graduate level. All incoming students enrolled in an online M.B.A.-F.S.A. program, which focuses on the financial and insurance sectors, will get their own iPads preconfigured with applications specially designed for the course. The partnership between the Vlerick Leuven Gent Management School, in Belgium; University of St. Gallen, in Switzerland; and H.E.C. Montréal will rely almost entirely on digital, distance learning.
''Aside from relieving the previous burden of carrying fat, heavy folders when traveling, the iPad can open the door to new, effective ways of learning,'' Jonathan De Grande, program manager at Vlerick, said by e-mail from Belgium. ''Lectures are enriched with interactive material and video in a digital carrier that is compact and cost-effective.''
At $750 an iPad, it is a less-expensive alternative to laptops that cost an average of $1,200.
Local U.A.E. students attending public universities generally do not pay for tuition or textbooks, though they are required to buy their own laptops. The introduction of iPads will reduce that cost by nearly half, though in the U.A.E., which has one of the highest per capita incomes in the world, few schools reported problems with families that could not afford the technology.
The plan to offer iPads across the U.A.E.'s three main higher education institutions has been in the works for one year by government decree. With the support of the government, a team of specialists visited Apple's headquarters in Cupertino, California, in April to form a partnership and agree on training services for teachers and students.
Apple then completed a feasibility study to determine that the campuses had the proper infrastructure for the project. They shipped 14,000 iPads to the country and asked faculty members for their opinions on which 20 free applications should be downloaded for student use.
Teachers were ''panicky'' before they realized how easy it would be to use the device, said Andrew Blackmore, curriculum supervisor at Zayed University. He added that educators were now working directly with Apple to develop their own apps and create their own reading material as e-books on iBooks Author. By reducing paper use and waste, the iPads also promote environmentally friendly values in a region where fast cars and massive shopping malls rely on low-cost energy without thinking twice.
''Everybody is concerned over paper usage, wastage,'' said Bryan Gilroy, assistant provost at Zayed University. ''With an iPad, you just don't get that. We already see a remarkable drop in paper use and the need to print things out. Even for us, we go from meeting to meeting and write notes on the iPad and send directly to other people.''
Troy Priest, also a curriculum supervisor at Zayed University, said a major change is that ''the iPads are being used to engage students in a way traditional content didn't.''
The initiative is a first step toward paperless classrooms.
A study by the consulting firm Booz & Co. shows that digitization ultimately supports the creation of labor-intensive jobs in an economy, in sectors like manufacturing, which has a greater effect on gross domestic product in developing economies, particularly in the Middle East, Africa and Asia.
''When I used to walk around campus, I previously didn't see many students sitting around with their noses in books all the time, whereas now everyone's on their iPads,'' Mr. Gilroy said. ''They're not necessarily working all the time, but they are definitely engaged with the technology in a powerful way.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (67%); MULTIMEDIA SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); ARIZONA, USA (72%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1203 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Junk Bonds Are Growing More Popular, Even as They Become Riskier

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
Junk bonds are living up to their name again.
Companies with junk credit ratings have been increasingly issuing bonds for riskier purposes that could hinder their ability to pay back bondholders.
Demand for junk bonds has touched record levels this year as investors reach for their rich yields, a stark contrast to the meager returns available on Treasury securities and money market accounts. But the voracious demand has allowed companies to easily raise money for things that may actually end up weakening them.
For most of this year, the bond issuers were at the higher end of the junk credit-rating spectrum, and were using the money to refinance old debt at lower interest rates, thereby solidifying their economic footing. That made many analysts feel more comfortable about the flood of new junk bonds.
But in recent weeks, there has been a decline in the average credit rating of the companies issuing junk bonds, to C ratings nearer the bottom of the junk rankings from the BB ratings at the top. And companies have been using more of the proceeds for the sorts of risky projects that were common before the financial crisis and in the go-go days of the 1980s -- paying dividends to private equity owners and financing mergers and leveraged buyouts. 
Jo-Ann Stores and Petco, for instance, both with junk ratings of CCC, sold a combined $875 million of bonds this month, with some of the money set to quickly leave the companies through dividend payments to their private equity owners. Many analysts say that the practice can hurt the financial health of the companies by increasing their regular interest payments to bondholders without strengthening the underlying business.
''Companies that were having difficulty coming to the market, or who want to be more aggressive, have now gotten the opportunity to do so,'' said Kingman Penniman, the founder of a junk bond research firm. ''Clearly it's a disturbing trend.''
The shift is particularly worrying to Mr. Penniman and others because so much of the money going into these bonds is coming from individual investors who may be unaware of the declining credit quality.
Over the first three quarters of the year, retail and institutional investors piled into junk bonds with equal alacrity. The record for junk bonds issued in the United States in a single year was broken on Oct. 18, and now stands at $293 billion, compared with $249 billion in all of 2011, according to Dealogic. But in recent weeks, as the bonds have grown risker, figures from the data company EPFR show that wiser institutional investors have begun to shift money out of junk bonds, as individual investors have continued to pour in. Retail investors added about $2.1 billion to their portfolios in the first three weeks of October, compared with a net outflow of $256 million from institutional investors.
The flows into junk bond mutual funds are pushing the managers of these funds to buy up whatever junk bonds are being issued -- even if they worry that the bonds could eventually run into trouble.
''The inflows are forcing people to look at these things, even though they might want to hold their nose,'' said Mark Hudoff, a portfolio manager at Hotchkis & Wiley, a mutual fund management company.
The most commonly cited reason for the recent surge of risky new bonds is the monetary stimulus program announced by the Federal Reserve in early September. By buying up safer mortgage-backed bonds, the Fed is trying to push investors to take on more risk. This would generally lead to big purchases of stock, but after the financial crisis, stocks still carry a stigma for many investors.
Because bonds, whether investment-grade or junk, do not lose all their value when a company goes bankrupt, they carry a greater aura of safety than a company's stock, which can be wiped out in a Chapter 11 filing. This year, retail investors have put about $22 billion into junk bond funds, compared with the $8.3 billion that went into these funds in 2011 from all sources, according to EPFR.
Because of the minuscule interest rates being offered on other types of bonds, some analysts say junk bonds still represent a good deal. Even as the interest rates on junk bonds have fallen to their lowest levels ever, the yields on Treasury bonds have fallen even more quickly. The total return on high-yield bonds this year has been 12.8 percent, compared with 9.6 percent on investment-grade bonds and 14.1 percent on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to the Royal Bank of Scotland.
But Carl P. Kaufman, who buys bonds for Osterweis Capital Management, said he is having to be much more selective in which junk bonds he buys, to avoid those that ''are going for no productive purpose.''
Among the bonds that worry investors are those being used to pay for acquisitions, a riskier pursuit than the refinancing that dominated earlier this year. Some private equity companies are raising money for new leveraged buyouts, which can load the acquired company with debt. David's Bridal, for example, borrowed $270 million, rated CCC by Standard & Poor's, in early October to finance its sale from one private equity owner to another. The company declined to comment.
Then there are the bonds issued to pay dividends to a company's private equity owners. The hospital company HCA borrowed $2.5 billion on Oct. 16, in part to make payments to its three private equity owners -- Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, Bain Capital and Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity. Mr. Penniman said that deals like this, in isolation, increase a company's debt and make it harder to fulfill its obligations to bondholders.
A spokesman for HCA, Ed Fishbough, said: ''We're pleased with the response to our offering'' from investors, and also with the company's debt levels.
The trend that worries investors most is the rise of bonds that allow the borrower to skip cash interest payments if it hits financial trouble, removing one of the most attractive features of bonds: the guaranteed fixed income.
''It is an expression by the company that we're not sure we're going to be making enough money to pay the interest for the next few years,'' said Adam B. Cohen, the founder of Covenant Review, a credit research firm.
There have been more of these bonds issued over the last month than there were over the first eight months of the year, according to data from the Royal Bank of Scotland.
Jo-Ann Stores and Petco incorporated that optional interest payment feature into the notes they issued to make dividend payments to their owners. Petco borrowed $550 million for five years at 8.5 percent; Jo-Ann Stores issued $325 million of notes at 9.75 percent for seven years. The private equity owners declined to comment.
Mr. Cohen said that the demand for high-yield bonds is keeping the lawyers who work on the projects busy and giving them freedom to take more and more liberties with the terms of borrowing. He says that these lawyers have told him, ''We're just writing up the contracts however we want, because people are buying everything.''
Mr. Kaufman said that the companies issuing these bonds were not likely to hit problems immediately, but at some point the riskier behavior was likely to catch up with them, and their investors.
''All the sudden you will have that surprised look on your face when it hits the fan,'' Mr. Kaufman said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Petco sold $550 million in five-year notes to pay dividends to its private equity owners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Getting Into Junk: So far this year, institutional investors have put $25 billion into junk bonds and retail investors, $22 billion. (Source: EPFR Global) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (94%); BONDS (93%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BOND ISSUES (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (77%); MERGERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1204 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: Now 12, California Boy Comes to Trial in Killing of Neo-Nazi Father

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
RIVERSIDE, Calif. -- Both the prosecution and the defense involved in a trial set to start here on Monday basically agree on the following: Before dawn on May 1, 2011, 10-year-old Joseph Hall went to his family's living room armed with a snub-nosed revolver, pointed it at his father's head as he lay sleeping on the couch, and shot and killed him.
From there, the two sides are likely to differ on both the events that preceded the shooting and Joseph's exact motive, elements complicated by his age and the fact that his father, Jeff Hall, was a rabid neo-Nazi. And those facts raise several more philosophical quandaries that, depending on how the judge weighs the answers, may determine the outcome of the trial. Among them: whether virulent racism can amount to parental abuse, whether a child exposed to such hate can understand the difference between right and wrong, and whether someone who grows up in such toxic circumstances can be blamed for wanting a way out. 
The prosecutor, Michael Soccio, says that the actions of Joseph Hall have little to do with Nazism, but rather with his anger at being punished and spanked by his father at a party the day before the killing and the boy's worries that his father would leave his family. Though he says he sympathizes with Joseph and his upbringing -- ''There's a sweet side to him,'' Mr. Soccio said in an interview this month -- he also has little doubt that the boy is a killer.
''What he did, had it been done by anybody older, there would be no doubt that it was a murder,'' said Mr. Soccio, the chief deputy district attorney in Riverside County. ''It's planned. It's premeditated. It was carried out in a cold, killing fashion. It is a murder.''
But Joseph's public defender, Matthew J. Hardy, says his client has neurological and psychological problems, compounded by exposure to neo-Nazi ''conditioning'' and physical abuse in the home.
''He's been conditioned to violence,'' Mr. Hardy said, adding, ''You have to ask yourself: Did this kid really know that this act was wrong based on all those things?''
Instead, Mr. Hardy said, Joseph thought he was being a hero by shooting his father. ''He thought what he was doing was right,'' said Mr. Hardy. ''And while that may be hard for other people to understand, in his mind, in a child's mind, if he thought it was right, or at least didn't think it was wrong, then he cannot be held responsible.''
Whether that holds true is up to Judge Jean Leonard of Riverside County Superior Court, who will oversee the murder trial without a jury. What is certain, however, is that if found responsible for the killing and made a ward of the state, Joseph, who is now 12, would be the youngest person held in one of the three fenced-in facilities run by California's Department of Juvenile Justice, which houses about 900 of some of the state's most serious juvenile offenders. The median age of these offenders held by the state is 19, and, if found reasonable for the murder, Joseph would likely be held until he was 23.
Joseph Hall's case is also unusual because such acts of violence by children are exceedingly rare. Kathleen M. Heide, a professor of criminology at the University of South Florida, conducted a study and found only 16 arrests of a child under the age of 11 in the killing a parent between 1976 and 2007, roughly one every two years.
Trials in such murders are even rarer, said Robert Weisberg, a co-director of the Stanford Criminal Justice Center, saying he could not recall seeing anyone that young on trial for such a crime in California.
Children as young as 10, or younger, who are accused of murder present special challenges to courts, said Dr. Heide, because of the longstanding legal belief that children are incapable of formulating the intent to commit the crime and do not understand the magnitude of its consequences. Children that young often do not grasp ''that death means forever gone,'' she said.
California's penal code also says that children under 14 cannot be charged with a crime without clear proof that ''they knew its wrongfulness.''
But Mr. Soccio said that Joseph had a history of violence, including an attack that involved wrapping a telephone cord around a teacher's neck, and needed to be in a security setting ''receiving as much help as possible for as long as possible.''
''I've had some people say, 'How can you do that to a little kid?' '' said Mr. Soccio. ''And I ask them, 'Well, would you like him to come live with you?' ''
Whatever strategy the lawyers use, life inside the Hall household will most likely come up in the trial, and Joseph may take the stand, Mr. Soccio said. The court could also see testimony from members of the neo-Nazi group the National Socialist Movement, of which Mr. Hall was a West Coast leader.
The day before the killing, Mr. Hall, 32, held a meeting for his members at his suburban Riverside home, where a Nazi flag was hung in the living room. A New York Times reporter, reporting an article about the National Socialist Movement, was also at that meeting, where the group discussed plans for armed patrols on the Mexican border.
At the meeting's start, Mr. Hall, an unemployed plumber who had bragged in the past about teaching his son to shoot a weapon, scolded one of his children for interrupting him -- ''Get outside or go upstairs and play!'' -- before telling the group about Joseph's breaking a set of cabinets in the house.
''It was like the twin towers, 9/11, one stack came down, the other stack,'' he said.
During the meeting, Joseph listened quietly at a table, and later sat with his stepmother, Krista McCary, as she fed a newborn. Mr. Hall had five children, including two from a previous marriage -- he was awarded custody of Joseph, the oldest of the five children, and his younger sister after a legal battle with his ex-wife.
The custody battle included allegations of abuse on both sides. Mr. Soccio said that Mr. Hall had occasionally gone ''over the top'' with physical punishments of Joseph, including kicks to the buttocks. But, he said, ''nothing near criminal or even prohibited.'' Some friends, he said, said ''he was a good parent.''
But there is also the question of whether Mr. Hall's rhetoric, which included ''sieg heils,'' and neo-Nazi get-togethers in the home amounted to psychological abuse. Mr. Hardy said Joseph had endured episodes of domestic violence and child abuse ''as well as the atmosphere that's created by the neo-Nazi activities.''
After the meeting, where, Mr. Soccio said, Joseph was spanked for misbehaving, Mr. Hall went out. Mr. Soccio said Joseph might have told a sibling that night that he planned to shoot his father, and Mr. Hardy said another member of the family might have encouraged it.
Just after 4 a.m., the Riverside police received a 911 from Ms. McCary, reporting that her husband had been shot. Paramedics declared him dead when they arrived. A police report said officers had found a .357 Magnum revolver under Joseph's bed, and an empty holster on a lower shelf in his parents' closet.
In August 2011, Ms. McCary pleaded guilty to child endangerment and criminal storage of a firearm. She and her three biological children now live with Mr. Hall's mother, Mr. Soccio said. Neither woman could be reached for comment.
Joseph is living at a juvenile hall in Riverside, going to school on the grounds of the facility, and is eligible for family visits on weekends and counseling.
And although ''tiny'' when he arrived in custody, the boy has grown taller and heavier, and would continue to present ''a custodial problem wherever he is,'' Mr. Soccio said. ''He's going to be a big man.''
Mr. Soccio said that Joseph worried that his father was cheating on his stepmother and that ''his family might be falling apart.'' But Mr. Soccio said he remained skeptical that Mr. Hall's Nazism had much to do with the murder. Rather, he thinks back to something he said the boy had told investigators in the hours after the killing.
''Joseph said at one point,'' Mr. Soccio recalled, '' 'This father and son thing had to come to an end.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two weeks before he was shot to death, Jeff Hall, was involved in a skirmish in Pemberton, N.J., at a conference of the National Socialist Movement. At right, Joseph eating a sandwich after a meeting that Mr. Hall held at his house a day before the killing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIE PLATNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); MURDER (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1205 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Medicaid On The Ballot

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
There's a lot we don't know about what Mitt Romney would do if he won. He refuses to say which tax loopholes he would close to make up for $5 trillion in tax cuts; his economic ''plan'' is an empty shell.
But one thing is clear: If he wins, Medicaid -- which now covers more than 50 million Americans, and which President Obama would expand further as part of his health reform -- will face savage cuts. Estimates suggest that a Romney victory would deny health insurance to about 45 million people who would have coverage if he lost, with two-thirds of that difference due to the assault on Medicaid. 
So this election is, to an important degree, really about Medicaid. And this, in turn, means that you need to know something more about the program.
For while Medicaid is generally viewed as health care for the nonelderly poor, that's only part of the story. And focusing solely on who Medicaid covers can obscure an equally important fact: Medicaid has been more successful at controlling costs than any other major part of the nation's health care system.
So, about coverage: most Medicaid beneficiaries are indeed relatively young (because older people are covered by Medicare) and relatively poor (because eligibility for Medicaid, unlike Medicare, is determined by need). But more than nine million Americans benefit from both Medicare and Medicaid, and elderly or disabled beneficiaries account for the majority of Medicaid's costs. And contrary to what you may have heard, the great majority of Medicaid beneficiaries are in working families.
For those who get coverage through the program, Medicaid is a much-needed form of financial aid. It is also, quite literally, a lifesaver. Mr. Romney has said that a lack of health insurance doesn't kill people in America; oh yes, it does, and states that expand Medicaid coverage show striking drops in mortality.
So Medicaid does a vast amount of good. But at what cost? There's a widespread perception, gleefully fed by right-wing politicians and propagandists, that Medicaid has ''runaway'' costs. But the truth is just the opposite. While costs grew rapidly in 2009-10, as a depressed economy made more Americans eligible for the program, the longer-term reality is that Medicaid is significantly better at controlling costs than the rest of our health care system.
How much better? According to the best available estimates, the average cost of health care for adult Medicaid recipients is about 20 percent less than it would be if they had private insurance. The gap for children is even larger.
And the gap has been widening over time: Medicaid costs have consistently risen a bit less rapidly than Medicare costs, and much less rapidly than premiums on private insurance.
How does Medicaid achieve these lower costs? Partly by having much lower administrative costs than private insurers. It's always worth remembering that when it comes to health care, it's the private sector, not government programs, that suffers from stifling, costly bureaucracy.
Also, Medicaid is much more effective at bargaining with the medical-industrial complex.
Consider, for example, drug prices. Last year a government study compared the prices that Medicaid paid for brand-name drugs with those paid by Medicare Part D -- also a government program, but one run through private insurance companies, and explicitly forbidden from using its power in the market to bargain for lower prices. The conclusion: Medicaid pays almost a third less on average. That's a lot of money.
Is Medicaid perfect? Of course not. Most notably, the hard bargain it drives with health providers means that quite a few doctors are reluctant to see Medicaid patients. Yet given the problems facing American health care -- sharply rising costs and declining private-sector coverage -- Medicaid has to be regarded as a highly successful program. It provides good if not great coverage to tens of millions of people who would otherwise be left out in the cold, and as I said, it does much right to keep costs down.
By any reasonable standard, this is a program that should be expanded, not slashed -- and a major expansion of Medicaid is part of the Affordable Care Act.
Why, then, are Republicans so determined to do the reverse, and kill this success story? You know the answers. Partly it's their general hostility to anything that helps the 47 percent -- those Americans whom they consider moochers who need to be taught self-reliance. Partly it's the fact that Medicaid's success is a reproach to their antigovernment ideology.
The question -- and it's a question the American people will answer very soon -- is whether they'll get to indulge these prejudices at the expense of tens of millions of their fellow citizens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MEDICARE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (88%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); FAMILY (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (76%); POLITICS (76%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); TAX LAW (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (70%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1206 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Contract With Merit Pay, Backed by Union Chiefs, Is Tough Sell for Newark Teachers

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
NEWARK -- On one side of the table was the union firebrand Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers. On the other was the state education commissioner handpicked by Gov. Chris Christie, who became a star among fellow Republicans for aggressively taking on public employee unions.
During months of intense and late-night negotiations for a new teachers contract for the chronically troubled Newark school system, the parties settled on what they believed would be a landmark compromise.
At the center of it was merit pay -- the idea of paying teachers based on performance that has long been a flash point between critics of teachers' unions who believe it would increase accountability, and union leaders who fear that performance would be based on test scores rather than the subtleties of classrooms.
Though Ms. Weingarten had criticized what she calls ''merit pay schemes,'' she and the other union leaders agreed to embrace the concept in exchange for a promise that teachers would have a rare role in evaluating performance, declaring it a way to rebuild respect for a $1 billion school system that has bled students and money to the suburbs and, increasingly, to charter schools. 
Joseph Del Grosso, the leader of the local union who was jailed for striking 40 years ago, has been telling his members that approving the contract will turn them into ''heroes.''
But suspicion tends to run high in this New Jersey city, long rived by politics of race and class. Many teachers worry that the bonuses will never appear. And a faction has staged an insurrection against union leaders, saying the contract will weaken job security and pit teacher against teacher.
''This is how they will break our union,'' said Renee Pulliam, a high school special education teacher in her 24th year in Newark.
On Monday, the city's 4,700 union members are scheduled to vote on the contract. Both sides say they cannot predict the outcome, but either way, what happens here will echo among teachers' unions across the country.
If the contract is approved, it could prompt other districts to push for pay-for-performance, by suggesting that merit pay is no longer so symbolic a fight among the rank and file. Newark's deal itself was prompted by recent changes to the state's tenure laws that were once considered unthinkable. And both sides insist that this deal could be a model for union-management collaboration, giving teachers a voice they have often felt was denied in reform.
If it fails, beleaguered union leaders could take it as a new sign of strength in contract negotiations -- similar, some teachers said, to the example of the Chicago teachers' strike last month.
From novices to the most senior, Newark teachers would remain among the highest paid in the nation, earning average raises of more than 13 percent in the three-year contract. But teachers evaluated as ''ineffective'' would have to improve before they could earn the raises that under previous contracts have come automatically every year.
Teachers could earn bonuses of $5,000 if they are evaluated as ''highly effective,'' and an extra $5,000 if they agree to teach in the district's lowest-performing schools, or an extra $2,500 for teaching subjects like math and science that have a lack of qualified teachers. The money for bonuses will come from the $100 million gift that Mark Zuckerberg, a co-founder of Facebook, pledged to the city in 2010.
As the union has mounted a push to pass the contract, Ms. Weingarten has insisted that the bonuses are not strictly ''merit pay,'' wanting to avoid the impression that the union sold out on a long-held principle.
The local president, Mr. Del Grosso, worries less about semantics. ''I've always found it strange that any union, when it heard the word 'pay,' would reject it,'' he said in an interview.
In presentations to members last week, Mr. Del Grosso argued that the contract would affirm teachers as professionals, like doctors or lawyers.
''The doctors take away another doctor's license, lawyers disbar lawyers,'' he said. ''Why shouldn't teachers be the judges of their own peers? My doctor tells me he gets bonuses, lawyers at law firms get bonuses. Why shouldn't teachers?''
But at the first meeting last week, teachers challenged Mr. Del Grosso, calling him a ''liar'' as he tried to argue the merits of peer review.
''I've been a distinguished teacher for years; I've bought kids clothes,'' said Donna Tollinchi, an eighth-grade math teacher, still shaken outside the meeting, at a performing arts center downtown, where she confronted Mr. Del Grosso. ''For them to turn around and say I don't deserve my salary?''
Some teachers, speaking anonymously out of fear of retaliation, argued that few will actually get the performance bonuses -- not because they are ineffective, but because the system has had a way of wasting money fast. Others worried that even peer evaluations could be unfair.
And even supporters of the contract acknowledge that there are about 650 teachers -- those with more seniority or advanced degrees -- who will lose the potential to earn as much as they did under the old contract. Those teachers could opt for a separate salary scale that pays somewhat more generously but does not offer the potential for performance bonuses.
Branden Rippey, 41, a high school history teacher, is one of those.
''I'm opposed to the principle of merit pay, and losing money to a new contract,'' he said. The proposal, he argued, would just pave the way to staff the schools with young Teach for America teachers, ''who get six months training and don't work for more than 3, 4, 5 years.''
He is among a coalition of union members who held their own meetings last week, urging their colleagues to vote no, oust Mr. Del Grosso and choose new leaders to negotiate a better deal.
''I can't believe I have counted on this union to negotiate all this time,'' said Ms. Tollinchi, the math teacher. ''This is the best they can do?''
Supporters of the contract reply, bluntly, yes. (Trying to emphasize their respect for the teachers' union, and its autonomy, the Newark schools superintendent, Cami Anderson, and the state commissioner, Christopher Cerf, have declined to comment on the contract in advance of the vote.)
Governor Christie recently warned the city that it will see a significant cut in state aid next year. The state is struggling with one of the nation's highest unemployment rates and lagging economic growth.
Given the alternatives, is it not better, Mr. Del Grosso asked, to be known as the union that embraced change?
''I've heard the people who call the Facebook money 'blood money,' '' he said. ''But if I don't take the money, I wonder who will get it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Newark teachers at a meeting last week to discuss a proposed contract. (A20)
 Branden Rippey talked to teachers in Newark during a meeting to discuss the contract. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (92%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); MERIT PAY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (78%); STRIKES (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (74%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1207 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Band Tries to Stay Intimate, Even in a Cavernous Hall

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
From the grandiose movie-palace stage of the Paradise Theater in the Bronx on Friday night, Oliver Sim of the xx kept marveling at the size of the place. He recalled the Mercury Lounge show on the band's first New York City visit and addressed fans in the balcony as ''a million miles away.'' By now the xx has played festivals and other large gigs. But proportion and intimacy are crucial to the xx's songs, and with the release of its second album, ''Coexist'' (Young Turks/XL), the band is figuring out how to scale up as its audience grows.
The xx's music is dedicated to an absolute economy of means. The band members -- Mr. Sim and Romy Madley Croft on vocals, bass and guitar, and Jamie Smith on percussion, keyboards and electronics -- usually provide only a vocal, two notes and a beat, sometimes less. Chords are rare, open spaces gape, and absolute silence is possible mid-song. 
In terse, lucid pop structures that could be X-rays of British art-pop past -- David Bowie, New Order, the Cure -- Ms. Croft and Mr. Sim sing about longing and estrangement. She often clings, with a doleful ache in her voice, while he holds back, reserved but sometimes reachable. Heard through earphones, preferably on a rainy midnight, the songs are whispery private musings. Onstage the xx has generally played down the members' physical presence, performing in darkness and haze or, when visible, keeping motion to a minimum.
But larger rooms call for larger gestures, and the xx has begun, tentatively, to make them. At the Paradise most of the songs remained skeletal: a few plucked notes, a hint of rhythm, a lone voice. Mr. Smith was the busiest musician onstage, often playing a keyboard with one hand while tapping an electronic drum pad with the fingers of the other, for an unmechanical live beat. The music's absences still invited listeners to fill in the blanks; there were steadfast, gentle singalongs, and when the xx paused before the wordless refrain of ''Crystalised,'' the audience jumped in with its own, ''Hi yi yi.''
The xx, meanwhile, is starting to look almost comfortable onstage; Mr. Sim actually bobbed and weaved with some of his bass lines. The band is now thinking about what fans in the balcony can see. The lights cutting through the smoke-machine vapors at times strobed or flashed on the beat, and near the end of the concert a backdrop was unveiled: a giant, transparent X.
Some of the music was enlarged too. Songs including ''Night Time'' and ''Shelter'' were recast as club mixes, spelling out straightforward dance beats. Drums boomed in ''Infinity,'' pushing Ms. Croft to emote more openly, as she answered Mr. Sim's calm refrain, ''Give it up,'' with an increasingly tearful ''I can't give it up!''
In ''Chained,'' a club-friendly house-music beat -- only implied by the production on the ''Coexist'' album -- snapped into place as the xx sang, ''We used to get closer than this/Is it something you miss?'' The xx had moved into the big room, but not without ambivalence.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The xx: From left, Romy Madley Croft, Jamie Smith and Oliver Sim on Friday at the Paradise Theater in the Bronx. This British band's popularity is growing, as are the settings where it performs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); FILM (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); RECORD RELEASES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1208 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2591 words

HEADLINE: Silos Loom as Death Traps on American Farms

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER; Seth Berkman and Jake Rosenwasser contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
STERLING, Mich. -- Tommy Osier, 18, a popular but indifferent student, was still a year from graduating from high school, and that was no sure thing. Farm work paid him $7.40 an hour, taught him discipline and gave him new skills. He had begun talking about making a life in farming.
But he hated the chore he drew on Memorial Day of last year, working inside the silo at Pine Grove Farm. The corn was damp and crusted. It tended to hang up on the sides of the old six-story cement bin and had to be busted up with a steel rod before it would cascade to the bottom to be shoveled out.
That morning, just after 9, the phone rang in the Osier home. ''Tommy's in the silo,'' his sister relayed to their mother, Linda, unsure of what it meant. 
Ms. Osier grew up on a hog farm and knew right away. ''He's dead,'' she said, slumping to the floor. ''Tommy's dead.''
Even as the rate of serious injury and fatalities on American farms has fallen, the number of workers dying by entrapment in grain bins and silos has remained stubbornly steady. The annual number of such accidents rose throughout the past decade, reaching a peak of at least 26 deaths in 2010, before dropping somewhat since.
Silos teeming with corn, wheat or soybeans become death traps when grain cascades out of control, asphyxiating or crushing their victims. Since 2007, 80 farmworkers have died in silo accidents; 14 of them were teenage boys.
The deaths are horrific and virtually all preventable.
Experts say the continuing rate of silo deaths is due in part to the huge amount of corn being produced and stored in the United States to meet the global demand for food, feed and, increasingly, ethanol-based fuel.
That the deaths persist reveals continuing flaws in the enforcement of worker safety laws and weaknesses in rules meant to protect the youngest farmworkers. Nearly 20 percent of all serious grain bin accidents involve workers under the age of 20.
Last year, the Labor Department proposed new regulations aimed at tightening protections for children doing farm work.
The proposed federal regulations would have prohibited children under 18 from working in large commercial grain bins, silos or other enclosed spaces. But the Obama administration, sensitive to Republican charges that it was choking the economy with expensive regulations, pulled back the proposed rules this year in the face of furious farm-state objections.
Even those rules would not have covered working conditions on family farms and small operations like the one where Tommy Osier died and which account for 70 percent of grain entrapment accidents. Experts on farm safety say that most farmers are aware of the hazards of sending someone into a bin full of unstable grain, but often lack the equipment or training to protect their workers against an avalanche.
''The concept of walking down the grain should be avoided at all costs,'' said Wayne Bauer, the safety director at the Star of the West Milling Company in Frankenmuth, Mich., which operates grain elevators in five states. ''And people sending kids into spaces where they have no business being deserve to be fined.''
Dave Schwab, who operated the farm where Tommy Osier died, told investigators that he knew the air inside silos could be toxic and combustible, but that he was unaware of the dangers of entrapment in cascading corn. He did not have air-monitoring or rescue equipment at the farm, but investigators found no evidence that he willfully flouted state rules for sending workers into confined spaces.
'They Didn't Have a Clue'
Wyatt Whitebread, 14, had been on the job for just two weeks at a commercial grain-elevator complex in Mount Carroll, Ill., when he was sent into a 500,000-bushel storage tower to loosen corn kernels that were sticking to the side. Bin No. 9 was one of more than a dozen buildings on the property owned and operated by Haasbach L.L.C.
Shortly after he and other teenage workers entered the bin on July 10, 2010, a manager at the base opened two floor holes to speed the flow of the grain. The sudden action dragged Wyatt, who was walking atop the corn to help it flow, toward the floor of the bin, engulfing him under the corn as he screamed for help. Alejandro Pacas, 19, who had joined the work crew the day before, rushed over to aid him and was quickly entrapped himself. Both teenagers died in seconds.
A third young worker, Will Piper, 20, was injured when he became trapped trying to save Mr. Pacas, his best friend. Pinned against Mr. Pacas's lifeless body for nearly 12 hours as 300 rescuers worked to drain the bin and free him, he managed to keep his head above the corn and survived.
''They sent those boys in there ill-equipped to do a job that even adults should not do,'' said Carla Whitebread, Wyatt's mother. ''They sacrificed our boys to save a buck and get more corn out.''
William E. Field, a professor of agricultural and biological engineering at Purdue University and the country's foremost expert on grain storage accidents, has documented more than 800 serious entrapment cases since 1970, a count likely shy by hundreds, he said, because many go unreported.
Virtually every entrapment is preventable, Dr. Field said, by following simple guidelines established by the Labor Department's Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
Before any worker enters a grain silo, employers must turn off all power equipment, particularly loaders and augers. Any worker entering a bin must be provided a safety harness or a supporting chair. There must be an observer monitoring the bin worker at all times. No one should enter a bin when grain is bridged overhead or built up on the sides. Air must be tested for the presence of combustible or toxic gases.
Almost none of these precautions were followed the day the teenagers died at the Illinois elevator or at the farm where Tommy Osier died.
The Labor Department identified two dozen violations of required safety practices and child labor laws that contributed to the deaths of Alejandro Pacas and Wyatt Whitebread.
''Grain entrapments kill workers,'' David Michaels, the OSHA director, said in announcing $618,000 in fines and penalties, later negotiated down to $268,000. ''There is absolutely no excuse for any worker to be killed in this type of incident.''
Catherine Rylatt, Mr. Pacas's aunt, who has established a group to promote safety in grain handling and to raise awareness, said that the fines were too low to deter operators from cutting corners and that the government needed to do more.
''He was never supposed to be in that grain bin, and he didn't receive proper training,'' she said. ''I know my nephew had some awareness of the scientific properties, the weight of the corn if you did get trapped, it would take this much force to pull someone out. But any sense of real danger, how to prevent that danger -- they didn't have a clue.''
Exemptions and Proposals
Hundreds of thousands of silos sit on small and medium-size farms and at local grain terminals, and because these operations employ fewer than 10 workers, they are exempt from most federal health and safety rules.
Children working for their parents or close relatives are exempt from all labor regulations, a feature of federal law since 1938 that is based on the theory that parents will take extra care of their own children.
Federal labor standards apply to only the 13,000 largest grain handling facilities, operations like the Mount Carroll grain terminal, even though historically a majority of reported grain entrapments occur on family farms and at small grain elevators.
A week after the deaths in Mount Carroll, the Labor Department sent a sharply worded letter to all commercial grain handling facilities.
''As an employer of workers facing these hazards, you have the legal obligation to protect and train your workers,'' Mr. Michaels wrote. ''I am calling on you to prevent these needless deaths.'' Criminal prosecution would be recommended in future egregious cases, he added.
But the silo deaths and injuries continued. On Aug. 4 last year, Bryce Gannon and Tyler Zander, 17-year-old high school seniors, were inside a commercial grain bin in Kremlin, Okla., operating a 10-inch sweep auger on the floor. Mr. Gannon's leg got caught in the auger, and when Mr. Zander tried to help him, he also became ensnared in the machinery. Each teenager lost a leg.
Three weeks later, the federal government proposed new child labor rules for agriculture, the first major revision in nearly half a century.
''Children employed in agriculture are some of the most vulnerable workers in America,'' Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis said in announcing the proposed rules.
The proposal, covering 49 pages in the Federal Register, noted that the hazards of farm work had changed drastically and that while teenage farmworkers accounted for only 4 percent of the country's working youths, they suffered more than 40 percent of overall workplace deaths.
The proposed regulations would have barred young workers from entering silos and other enclosed spaces. But they went much further in other areas, prohibiting teenagers from doing a broad array of farm tasks, including herding livestock and driving large farm vehicles. They also would have set new limits on the height of ladders that they could climb and the size of trees that they could cut.
Dr. Field of Purdue University said the administration squandered an opportunity by drawing the rules too broadly.
''They needed to address new technology and new equipment,'' he said. ''But in my mind, the Department of Labor, or whoever was pushing it, took it as an opportunity to throw everything, including the kitchen sink, at this thing.''
Though the regulations enshrined the longstanding exemption for children working on small family farms, the reaction was intense. Thousands of farmers wrote in protest. Even the parents of children killed in farm accidents -- including Ms. Osier and Mrs. Whitebread -- opposed the measures.
''I was very against it and was disappointed that they were using Wyatt as a reason for pursuing it,'' Mrs. Whitebread said in an e-mail message. ''Preventing kids from working on farms and around livestock is not the answer.''
Members of Congress from both parties demanded that the rules be killed in their entirety -- largely based on the distorted reading by opponents that they would have forbidden children from performing chores on their own families' farms.
Democratic senators facing tight races in farm states -- including Jon Tester of Montana, Debbie Stabenow of Michigan and Claire McCaskill of Missouri -- complained directly to the White House. Bipartisan groups in both chambers of Congress introduced legislation that would overturn the regulations if they were finalized.
The White House made no effort to defend its own Labor Department's rules, directing Secretary Solis to kill them, Obama administration and Labor Department officials said.
The White House would not comment on confidential conversations between staff members and a cabinet officer. But a spokesman, Matthew Lehrich, said in a written statement: ''President Obama believes that family farms and rural traditions are critical to the American economy and way of life. He has also directed his administration to be responsive to public input in the rulemaking process.'' He added that permanently withdrawing the proposal was ''very much in keeping with both of those principles.''
In April, the Labor Department abruptly withdrew the rules with a brief written statement expressing its commitment to respecting the role of parents and family members in passing down rural traditions.
''To be clear,'' it continued in a highly unusual comment, ''this regulation will not be pursued for the duration of the Obama administration.''
Public health and farmworker advocates were shocked. One called it a sucker punch to the Labor Department and to groups that had spent more than a decade trying to modernize farm safety rules for working children.
''I'm very frustrated and disgusted with the White House,'' said Rena Steinzor, a professor at the University of Maryland Carey School of Law and an expert on federal health and safety regulation.
''Normally an agency proposes a regulation and, if there are problems, the agency revises it,'' Ms. Steinzor continued. ''But we live in an age of greed and insanity, and people on the Hill went crazy. Rather than defend it, the Obama administration just caved.''
Alleviating Hazards
The day he died, Tommy Osier climbed a 10-foot ladder and crawled into the cement silo. The corn was caked along the sides of the bin and also formed a solid crust, or bridge, above his head. He began poking at the corn with an iron rod while his co-worker Patrick Pickvet, then 23, shoveled corn out of a small hole at the outside base of the bin.
Suddenly, the corn above and below Tommy gave way, and in seconds he was gone, buried under the avalanche, heaved against the rough side of the silo, sliding downward, yellow-brown kernels forced up his nose, into his ears and down his throat.
Mr. Pickvet said that the two of them had been in and out of the bin for weeks because of the broken floor augers, manually helping the corn to flow. ''I knew it was a little bit of a risk,'' he said, ''but I didn't realize it was going to end up being that bad.''
Mr. Pickvet did not know what had happened until the rod emerged from the lower hole. Then Tommy's cellphone came out, and he could see his leg inside.
Tommy suffocated in minutes but it took 35 men more than four hours to free his bruised body from the bin. The coroner found kernels embedded in his lungs.
Rescue workers laid him on the back of a pickup truck in the calf barn and formed a screen to block the local television cameras. His mother was waiting there for him.
Ms. Osier said she was not surprised by the extent of his injuries, but was shocked that the impact had dislocated his jaw.
''You know, it's morbid, but I wish I had photos of that so I could use it for rescuers because it devastated so many of the first responders,'' she said.
What most confounds safety experts and advocates is how simple and inexpensive it is to avoid such tragedies. A pulley system, a safety harness and a set of boards to fence off a trapped worker cost less than $1,000 per elevator, said Mr. Bauer, the safety director at the Michigan grain company, and following federal requirements, like having a spotter and shutting off any mechanical equipment, costs nothing.
The Labor Department has increased enforcement in recent years. After issuing 663 citations for grain handling violations in 2008, the number jumped to 1,532 in 2011.
But federal regulators had no jurisdiction over Mr. Schwab's small farm. Instead, Michigan worker safety officials fined him $7,000 for general safety violations, an amount cut in half once he fixed the broken augers and posted warning signs.
In March, Ms. Osier attended a safety conference in Grand Rapids, Mich., where grain entrapment rescue techniques were being taught to farmers and firefighters using a cross-section of a metal grain bin filled with plastic pellets.
No one there knew she had lost a son in a silo accident nine months earlier, and she was called on from the crowd to participate.
''I said I would, but I didn't want to be the victim,'' she recalled. ''So I took off my heels and climbed into that bin and helped place the metal containment panels around the victim.''
She paused, reliving the experience. ''My feet were sinking into the pellets,'' she said, and then went silent. She could not go on.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rescuers at a deadly grain silo accident in Illinois in 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB WATSON/ CARROLL COUNTY MIRROR-DEMOCRAT) (A1)
Tommy Osier died in minutes, but it took 35 men more than four hours to free his body from a silo last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHIGAN OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION)
 Linda Osier at her home in Standish, Mich., where signs memorialize her son, who was in high school. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARM LABOR (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (85%); FAMILY FARMS (77%); BIOFUELS (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); HOG & PIG FARMING (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); ALCOHOLS (63%); ETHANOL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1209 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Government's Role in Creating Jobs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Myth of Job Creation'' (editorial, Oct. 22):
The real myth about job creation that's being propagated this election is the role of the private sector. No companies, whether small businesses or large corporations, are started with the goal of creating jobs. They are started to serve a perceived need, to provide goods or services to the marketplace, with the goal of making a profit for the founders and/or investors. They need to hire employees to achieve that end, but it's a byproduct of their true mission.
There's nothing wrong with this. Business is an important driver of the economy. 
If a chief executive could produce the same output with fewer employees and thus higher profits but instead chose to hire more workers, that C.E.O. would probably be fired. Corporate officers are tasked with the job of keeping labor costs as low as possible without affecting quality. You could call them job destroyers. That would be demagoguing, but it would be as truthful as calling them job creators.
The true job creators in this country are consumers with dollars to spend.
BRAD GOLDBERG Studio City, Calif., Oct. 22, 2012
To the Editor:
You are right to point out that government directly creates millions of jobs, but you miss the main point. Government is an important partner in creating virtually all jobs in the United States. It provides the scaffolding for education, infrastructure, basic science, security and health that makes good jobs possible.
And by limiting health and retirement risks to individuals, it enables them to take career risks, venture beyond their hometowns and perhaps even become entrepreneurs.
DONALD LESSARD Watertown, Mass., Oct. 22, 2012
The writer is a professor of international management and engineering systems at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management.
To the Editor:
There's no question that government creates jobs. The devil is in the details.
Some jobs that you cite, like police and firefighters, are naturally linked with government.
But often government ''creates'' jobs the same way that we create excuses for spending money on nonessentials in our daily lives. I'm speaking of the dead weight and waste in agencies such as the General Services Administration. (You remember the hundreds of thousands of dollars squandered at a lavish conference in Las Vegas, right?)
Government has no money of its own, just resources gathered through taxation and borrowing. Its funds come from the private sector, where dreaded ''greed'' is tempered by risk. In other words, entrepreneurs must be reasonably certain they're providing a service of value, but that's not the case with government. What good is the space program to the average American?
MIKE MOLNAR Austin, Tex., Oct. 22, 2012
To the Editor:
I have been a federal employee since 2003. Before that, I was employed by New York City. When I hear Republican candidates talking about the need for smaller government, I wonder why no one responds, ''Those are millions of jobs that you are talking about eliminating.''
Yes, taxpayer money pays my salary. And, in turn, I pay my taxes, pay my mortgage, shop at local stores, go out to eat and so on.
Representative Paul D. Ryan has a government job, and Mitt Romney wants a government job. I hope and pray that they let me keep mine.
REBECCA FORMAN Staten Island, Oct. 22, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES GRAHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (96%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); WRITERS (73%); ENGINEERING (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1210 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Ontario City Shares Detroit's Thrills (Tigers) and Ills (Auto Industry)

BYLINE: By DAVID WALDSTEIN

 BODY:
WINDSOR, Ontario -- One of the little oddities of Detroit is that the quickest way to Canada is south, to Windsor, a border town tethered to its more imposing northern neighbor by bridge, tunnel and the Detroit Tigers.
Windsor, a struggling community of 319,000 with a distinct dual identity, has blue currency, a prime minister and smoked meat sandwiches. But one thing its residents share with their American neighbors, along with a stressed economy, is a love for the Tigers, whose stadium is closer to a foreign country than Yankee Stadium is to most parts of New Jersey.
''I live in Canada,'' Joe Siddall, the Tigers' Windsor-born batting practice pitcher, said before Game 3 of the World Series on Saturday. ''And I'm closer to Comerica Park than the players.''
In Windsor, Saturday night is traditionally ''Hockey Night in Canada.'' But a labor dispute in the N.H.L. has left those arenas dark, and without their national sport to watch, Windsorians turned to their Tigers. Over the weekend, from a Canadian rooftop on the southern shore of the Detroit River, one could see the lights of Comerica Park, barely a mile and a half away, glowing against the imposing glass figure of Detroit's Renaissance Center. 
''Windsor is 95 percent behind the Tigers,'' said Jeff Havens, a 35-year-old electrician who wore a Justin Verlander home jersey while watching Game 3 in a Windsor bar called the Dugout Sports Lounge. ''I mean, it's right there. That's our team.''
Others estimate much lower support because many fans in Windsor and Essex County, the peninsula that reaches down under Detroit, choose national loyalty to Ontario's Toronto Blue Jays.
''When we played the Blue Jays at Tiger Stadium, it was always full of Blue Jays fans,'' the former Tigers pitcher Jack Morris said. ''I know a lot of them came over from Windsor.''
They still do. For most Tigers home games, a convoy of buses from Windsor makes a two-minute crossing through the Detroit-Windsor tunnel, Canada's only point of entry into the United States that sends visitors in a northerly direction.
''We live in a different country,'' said Dan Hogan, the owner of the Dugout, who goes to Detroit four or five times a week. ''But we are really a suburb of Detroit. I can get to the stadium a lot faster than people who come in from the Detroit suburbs.''
As he spoke, during the middle innings of Game 3, his bar was filled, though not to capacity. Roughly three dozen fans, virtually all of them Windsor natives, tried desperately to coax the Tigers into scoring a run that never came. The Tigers lost to the San Francisco Giants, 2-0, and fell behind by three games to none in the Series. Detroit would go on to be swept, 4-3 in 10 innings, Sunday night.
Hogan said his business was doing ''O.K.,'' especially with the Tigers in the World Series, but it is not thriving. Unemployment in Windsor, an auto industry town like Detroit, is 9.5 percent, according to City Councilman Drew Dilkens. That is the highest rate in Canada.
''Times are tough,'' Hogan said. ''Let's face it: we put all our eggs in one basket with the auto industry. We have the Big Three here, just like Detroit. But we need to diversify.''
Dilkens acknowledged that Windsor's fortunes were linked to Detroit's, both with the economy and the prospects of the Tigers.
''We have a saying that when the United States sneezes, Canada catches a cold,'' he said. ''It's especially true with us and Detroit. We are reliant on the U.S. for trade and our economy. But we are looking to diversify, and we are promoting the area as a two-nation tourist destination.''
For years, Windsor was a destination for Michiganders looking to gamble in legalized halls. But since casinos opened in Detroit in 1999, that traffic has faded. Still, because the drinking age in Windsor is 19, it remains a party spot for young Michigan residents who cram the many bars, nightclubs and restaurants that line Ouellette Avenue, including the Dugout.
Windsor's recent efforts to expand tourism and emphasize its connection to Detroit have included this year's celebrations of the bicentennial of the War of 1812, particularly the Surrender of Detroit, a battle won by an alliance of British and First Nation troops, who held the Americans back. Had the battle gone differently, Windsor might have become part of the United States, and the idea of supporting the Blue Jays today would have seemed absurd.
Two hundred years later, the city government put up banners for the first time recognizing the Tigers' trip to the World Series. But at a bar called Lefty's, a lone customer in a Toronto Maple Leafs jacket sat at the bar and chatted with Gavin Ducharme, the 23-year-old bartender, who wore a dark blue T-shirt with the Tigers' large Gothic D on it. The two of them encapsulated Windsor's sports dual nationalism.
Windsor leans toward the Tigers, the Lions and the Red Wings, but at least for Game 3, there did not seem to be the same citywide passion as there was across the river. A Tigers World Series game created interest, but it did not give the city pause, and no Detroiters were found in Windsor on Saturday, other than two fans from Lansing, Mich., who had tickets to Game 3 but could not find a hotel in Detroit.
In the 1980s, Morris said, he and his Tigers teammate Kirk Gibson shared a hunting cabin in Tilbury, Ontario, but other than that, Windsor remained as distant as any foreign country despite its proximity.
''We knew it was there, but we never went over there,'' Morris said.
Siddall, the batting practice pitcher, who played briefly with the Expos, the Marlins and the Tigers, grew up in Windsor as a devoted Tigers fan. When Detroit signed him in 1998, it was a dream come true to play at Tiger Stadium, where he often went as a boy.
Today, he is one of the only people in baseball who need a passport to get to work every day. He lives in South Windsor, and to go to Comerica Park, he makes a daily commute across the Ambassador Bridge.
''As Canadians, we love it,'' Siddall said. ''We come here to shop a lot, but the most fun is to come over here for sports. I'm only 20 minutes away. I live closer to Comerica Park than most of the players do. It's almost like you're in the same city, even though it's a different country.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The bartender Brad Tayles, above, at the Dugout Sports Lounge across the border in Canada. Windsor put up banners, left, for the first time in support of the Detroit Tigers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (77%); SUBURBS (76%); SPORTS (74%); ICE HOCKEY (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (53%)

COMPANY: COMERICA INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS (97%)

TICKER: CMA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (97%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (97%); ONTARIO, CANADA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1211 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.11 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.15 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.11 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
MONDAY
Florida, $87.9 of million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
TUESDAY
St. Louis, $63.6 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Virginia, $142.4 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Washington, $250 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Hawaii, $70.1 million general obligation bonds. Competitive.
California, $82.8 million of special tax bonds. Competitive.
Washington, $330 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Michigan, $96.3 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
California Health Facility, $278.8 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
California Infrastructure and Economic Bank, $68.6 million of general obligation bonds. Piper Jaffray.
Central Utah Water Conservancy, $130.8 million of water revenue bonds. George K. Baum and Co.
Covanta Energy Corporation, $165 million of general obligation bonds. Bank of America and Merrill Lynch.
Covanta Energy Corporation, $170 million of general obligation bonds. Bank of America and Merrill Lynch.
Dallas Area Rapid Transit, $124.4 million of general revenue bonds. Loop Capital Markets.
Hamilton Health Care System, Georgia, $50 of general obligation bonds. Bank of America and Merrill Lynch.
Highline School District, Washington State, $82.2 of refinancing bonds. Seattle Northwest Securities.
Hospital Authority No. 1, Nebraska, $105 of refinancing bonds. Piper Jaffray.
Indiana Finance Authority, $179.7 million of revenue bonds. Ziegler.
Michigan Finance Authority, $108.5 million of refinancing and hospital revenue bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
Plaza Metropolitan District No. 1, Colorado, $109.3 million of refinancing bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Rhode Island Clean Water Finance Agency, $65.1 million of refinancing revenue bonds. Janney Montgomery Scott.
Sacramento Regional Transport, $86 million of revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Snohomish Public Utility District, Washington State $58 million of general obligation bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
South Dakota Housing and Development Authority, $75 million of general obligation bonds. Bank of America and Merrill Lynch.
Connecticut, $400 million of general obligation bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Wisconsin, $252.2 million of refinancing bonds. Jeffries.
State Public School Building, $269 million of revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
The Trust for Cultural Resources, New York, $112.5 million of revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Utah Transit Authority, $296.8 million of refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Virginia Resources Authority, $53 million of general obligation bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
Washington Health Care Facilities, $60 million of revenue bonds. Barclays Capital Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (87%); HEALTH CARE (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); HOSPITALS (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); COVANTA ENERGY CORP (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (83%); GEORGE K BAUM & CO (67%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (55%); DALLAS AREA RAPID TRANSIT INC (54%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (52%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (LSE) (83%); 8648 (TSE) (83%); GS (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); PJC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1212 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Boundaries? Don't Bother

BYLINE: By STEVE SMITH

 BODY:
Just off the coast of mainstream America is a land called Brooklyn, where life is devoted to creative pursuits, and cartographers are unemployed because residents -- some native, but many settled in from far-flung origins -- seem to reject the notion of boundaries. 
Gabriel Kahane -- born in California in 1981 and currently residing in Ditmas Park -- is emblematic of a growing Brooklyn aesthetic that renders moot distinctions among so-called high and low forms of art. In a sense his ''February House,'' a recent musical-theater work concerning a Brooklyn home shared by Benjamin Britten, W. H. Auden, Carson McCullers and Gypsy Rose Lee, posits a prehistory for his milieu.
But Mr. Kahane understands that outside Brooklyn much of the world still relies on maps to determine location, whether geographical or aesthetic. For his first Carnegie Hall solo showcase, mounted on Thursday evening in Zankel Hall, he thoughtfully divided his program into four separate but roughly equal territories that provided a thorough overview of the State of Kahane.
In ''Come On All You Ghosts,'' the three-part song cycle that opened the concert, Mr. Kahane set poetry by Matthew Zapruder for baritone and string quartet. Mr. Zapruder's verse -- a learned, attentive everyman's train of thought -- couches subtle profundities among mundane observations.
Mr. Kahane's interpretation mixes pop-song directness and amplified singing with string writing that attains a whorled density and includes an embedded reference to a Thomas Adès piece. Mr. Kahane's smoky, earnest baritone suited both the words and their setting, and the string quartet Brooklyn Rider was strikingly alert to matters of nuance and mood.
Alone at a piano for the concert's second segment Mr. Kahane performed a diverse mix of songs by other writers, thematically grouped in ways evident or not. More than an excellent parlor trick -- though the whimsy in linking breakup songs by Chris Thile, Robert Schumann and Cee Lo Green is obvious -- Mr. Kahane's deft sequencing teased out a universality of impulse and sentiment among far-flung sources.
''The Fiction Issue,'' a premiere commissioned by Carnegie Hall, was the evening's most ambitious undertaking: nine art songs with original texts by Mr. Kahane, which he sang in alternation with Shara Worden, a classically trained art-pop vocalist. Ricocheting from coast to coast with brief layovers in between, the cycle formed a fragmentary narrative that alluded to loss among details of everyday coping.
Again Mr. Kahane fused art-song and pop-ballad conventions into something new and entrancing, including rich, potent string-quartet writing embellished with piano, Ms. Worden's reed organ, and an electric guitar Mr. Kahane and Ms. Worden shared. Now and then you heard intimations of Paul Simon, Elvis Costello or Joni Mitchell.
Mostly, though, you heard Mr. Kahane, who ended his dense, rich program with five selections from ''Where Are the Arms,'' his 2011 album of sophisticated, heartfelt pop songs, rearranged here for strings, guitars and Ms. Worden's airy backing vocals. For an encore Mr. Kahane offered a bare-bones account of ''Goodnight to the Boarding House,'' from ''February House'': a voice, a banjo, no microphones.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gabriel Kahane at Carnegie Hall on Thursday in a show including works by Cee Lo Green and the poetMatthew Zapruder. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHY (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); POP & ROCK (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); WRITERS (71%); POETRY (71%); THEATER (70%); MUSICAL THEATER (70%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: CEE LO GREEN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1213 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: India Reshuffles Cabinet, as Chance of Early Elections Grows

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS; Hari Kumar contributed reporting from New Delhi.

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- India's governing coalition announced a reshuffled cabinet Sunday in yet another effort to shake off nearly a year of paralysis and prepare for elections that may come sooner than their scheduled date in 2014. 
The appointments also suggested that the governing United Progressive Alliance will continue to confront charges of corruption and nepotism that have embroiled some of its most prominent members in controversy. The government's new foreign minister, for example, is Salman Khurshid, who has been accused along with his wife of diverting funds from a charity for disabled persons. Mr. Khurshid has angrily denied the charges.
Wealthy and urbane, Mr. Khurshid is a Muslim, which could prove helpful in India's efforts to improve relations with neighboring Pakistan. Until recently, Mr. Khurshid was the government's law minister.
Perhaps the most surprising part of Sunday's announcement was that Rahul Gandhi, the son of the current Congress Party leader Sonia Gandhi and the heir apparent in the family that played a crucial role in India politics since independence, was not among those named to new positions. The younger Mr. Gandhi's ascent into a leadership position in the government has long been expected.
A TV news channel quoted Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Sunday as explaining, ''I always wanted Rahul to be in the cabinet, but he wants to strengthen the party. This is hopefully the last cabinet reshuffle.'' The new appointments of seven cabinet positions and 15 ministers of state follow recent efforts by the government to open India's retail, insurance and airline industries to more foreign investment and competition. The government also announced measures to reduce popular subsidies for gasoline, diesel and cooking gas.
These economic measures led to a storm of indignation from political opponents and caused a minority partner to leave the government and call for early elections. But they were greeted warmly by business leaders and investors and won praise from the United States Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, during a recent visit.
India's once-blistering economic growth has slowed, and the steady drumbeat of corruption charges has taken a toll on the government's credibility, which is one reason, among others, why early elections are considered possible. The new measures and appointments are intended to help the government regain its credentials as a modernizing force, political analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CORRUPTION (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); DIESEL FUEL (63%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%)

PERSON: SONIA GANDHI (78%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) INDIA (98%); PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1214 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Science Is The Key To Growth

BYLINE: By NEAL F. LANE. 
Neal F. Lane, a professor of physics and astronomy at Rice University, was director of the National Science Foundation and the chief science and technology adviser to , President Bill Clinton.

 BODY:
Houston
MITT ROMNEY said in all three presidential debates that we need to expand the economy. But he left out a critical ingredient: investments in science and technology.
Scientific knowledge and new technologies are the building blocks for long-term economic growth -- ''the key to a 21st-century economy,'' as President Obama said in the final debate.
So it is astonishing that Mr. Romney talks about economic growth while planning deep cuts in investment in science, technology and education. They are among the discretionary items for which spending could be cut 22 percent or more under the Republican budget plan, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. 
According to the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the plan, which Mr. Romney has endorsed, could cut overall nondefense science, engineering, biomedical and technology research by a quarter over the next decade, and energy research by two-thirds.
Mr. Romney seems to have lost sight of the critical role of research investments not only in developing new medicines and cleaner energy sources but also in creating higher-skilled jobs.
The private sector can't do it alone. We rely on companies to translate scientific discoveries into products. But federal investment in research and development, especially basic research, is critical to their success. Just look at Google, which was started by two graduate students working on a project supported by the National Science Foundation and today employs 54,000 people.
Richard K. Templeton, chief executive of Texas Instruments, put it this way in 2009: ''Research conducted at universities and national labs underpins the new innovations that drive economic growth.''
President Bill Clinton, for whom I served as science adviser from 1998 to 2001, understood that. In those years, we balanced the federal budget and achieved strong growth, creating about two million jobs a year. A main reason was the longstanding bipartisan consensus on investing in science. With support from Congress, Mr. Clinton put research funding on a growth path, including a doubling over five years (completed under President George W. Bush) of the budget for the National Institutes of Health.
In 2010, the federal government invested about $26.6 billion in N.I.H. research; those investments led to $69 billion in economic activity and supported 485,000 jobs across the country, according to United for Medical Research, a nonpartisan group.
Moreover, the $3.8 billion taxpayers invested in the Human Genome Project between 1988 and 2003 helped create and drive $796 billion in economic activity by industries that now depend on the advances achieved in genetics, according to the Battelle Memorial Institute, a nonprofit group that supports research for the industry.
So science investments not only created jobs in new industries of the time, like the Internet and nanotechnology, but also the rising tax revenues that made budget surpluses possible.
American science has not been faring so well in recent budgets. President Obama has repeatedly requested steady increases for scientific research, aimed at putting the budgets of three key science agencies -- the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy's Office of Science, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology -- on a path to double, by 2016, the combined $10 billion they received in 2006. But a polarized Congress has not delivered at that rate, and the goal could be nullified if next year sees the beginning of draconian cuts.
Meanwhile, the frontiers of science continue to expand. President Obama is proposing that the United States boost its overall national research and development investments -- including private enterprise and academia as well as government -- to 3 percent of gross domestic product -- a number that would still lag behind Israel, Sweden, Japan and South Korea, in that order.
In an increasingly complex world, that should be only a start. If our country is to remain strong and prosperous and a land of rewarding jobs, we need to understand this basic investment principle in America's future: no science, no growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (74%); GENOMICS (73%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: BATTELLE MEMORIAL INSTITUTE (60%); GOOGLE INC (58%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (56%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); TXN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (60%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD K TEMPLETON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1215 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Economic information to be released this week includes personal income and spending for September and the Chicago Federal Reserve Midwest manufacturing index (Monday); the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller home price index for August and consumer confidence for October (Tuesday); the Institute for Supply Management manufacturing index for October, construction spending for September, weekly jobless claims, retail sales for October and ADP employment for October (Thursday); and unemployment for October (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to release quarterly earnings reports include Burger King Worldwide (Monday); Deutsche Bank, Standard Chartered, UBS, Ford Motor, Chrysler, Pfizer and BP (Tuesday); Barclays and General Motors (Wednesday); Exxon Mobil, American International Group and Starbucks (Thursday); and Royal Bank of Scotland, Chevron, the Washington Post Company and Chesapeake Energy (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, the insider trading trial of Anthony Chiasson, formerly of the hedge fund Level Global, and Todd Newman, formerly of Diamondback Capital Management, begins with jury selection in Federal District Court in Manhattan, and the federal bankruptcy court in Manhattan will take up a deal under which Eastman Kodak would pay its retirees $7.5 million in cash and grant them $650 million in claims.
On Tuesday, American Airlines' parent, AMR, will ask the bankruptcy court for permission to obtain up to $1.5 billion in new bond financing.
On Thursday, automakers will report their North American sales for October.
OVERSEAS On Monday, Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain is set to meet the Italian prime minister, Mario Monti, in Madrid for talks on the economic crisis.
On Thursday, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland for talks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BONDS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); JURY TRIALS (73%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); AIRLINES (70%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); JURY DUTY (68%); INSIDER TRADING (53%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%)

COMPANY: AMR CORP (82%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%); BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (71%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (70%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); PFIZER INC (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (55%)

TICKER: BKW (NYSE) (71%); AIG (NYSE) (70%); 8685 (TSE) (70%); RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (71%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (73%); ITALY (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1216 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: What Works in a Campaign Commercial? Ad Executives Offer Their Take

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Madison Avenue and Pennsylvania Avenue do not intersect. And often the kind of advertising that sells presidential candidates has almost nothing in common with the kind that makes consumers crave breakfast cereal or a certain kind of beer.
Campaigns do not rely on professional advertising executives as often as they used to, at least not in the same way they did when Doyle Dane Bernbach created the famous ''Daisy'' ad for Lyndon B. Johnson or Hal Rainey helped write Ronald Reagan's ''Morning in America'' campaign.
So in that spirit, The New York Times asked three leaders in advertising to rate their favorite commercials of this campaign. They were asked to make two picks: one pro-Obama ad and one pro-Romney ad. 
Daryl Lee, McCann, chief strategy officer
Pro-Obama pick: ''My Job'' by the Obama campaign, which juxtaposes Mitt Romney's ''47 percent'' remarks about people on government assistance against pictures of veterans, families and blue-collar workers.
''Unlike the typical negative ad, peppered with newspaper headlines and pictures of the opponent grimacing or looking sinister, this ad creates a documentary approach, with a number of strong storytelling tactics,'' Mr. Lee said. ''After showing Barack Obama in rich colors at the White House, the screen turns dark with white script starkly stating, 'Mitt Romney's Own Words.' Everything that follows is black and white, stripped of color, reinforcing the bleak worldview that Romney's words suggest. The National Geographic-quality pictures evoke the perspective of the neutral observer, without an agenda, merely recording the world as it is. The shots of earnest, hardworking Americans in everyday pose contrast with Romney's words dismissing a group of Americans as 'victims.'
''The Obama team showed considerable restraint and discipline in this ad. They let the words speak for themselves.''
Pro-Romney pick: ''Olympics'' by the Restore Our Future ''super PAC,'' which features athletes like Kristi Yamaguchi praising Mr. Romney's leadership in saving the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City.
''The ad team took a news story approach to a candidate testimonial and executed it with great craft,'' Mr. Lee said. ''The ad works so well because the story line is simple and uplifting. It reads like a human-interest piece in the morning news shows. It is a story of crisis averted and hope rekindled.
''The authenticity of the story is communicated simply through real-life accounts from real athletes recounting the challenges the Olympics faced, and the actions from Romney that helped save the day. The background is plain and uncluttered. The ribbon effects that stream across the screen mimic the Olympic coverage TV visuals. Each of Romney's testimonial witnesses speaks from a different camera angle giving the appearance of diverse viewpoints that agree. And it clearly helps Mitt Romney to have respected, successful women like Kristi Yamaguchi endorsing him in an ad, considering the importance of the women vote in these elections.''
Mark Simon, Campbell Ewald, chief creative officer
Pro-Obama pick: ''Table'' by the Obama campaign, in which President Obama states his four-point case for re-election.
''In consumer advertising, 'competitive advertising' is generally viewed as an approach that may help a challenger brand -- but not a leadership brand,'' Mr. Simon said. ''In this context, it is very surprising that incumbent candidates have turned to this approach so forcefully.
''I'd rather see campaigns that focus on what the candidate stands for. Tell me what you're going to do for America and how you're going to do it. Don't tell me about your opponent. 'Table' does this while promoting 'economic patriotism,' an interesting concept.''
Pro-Romney pick: ''Too Many Americans,'' in which Mr. Romney makes his case directly to voters.
''Both sides focus most of their attention on attacking the other candidate rather than building their own case,'' Mr. Simon said. ''It seems as if 'comparative' -- that is, negative -- advertising has become the dominant political advertising approach of our times.
''This is something we've rarely heard in this campaign: agreement between the candidates. 'President Obama and I both care about middle-class families.' And it works well for the undecided without alienating those who might be leaning towards Obama. The choice of wardrobe and set design makes Mitt more accessible to middle-class America.''
Carl Johnson, Anomaly, founding partner
Pro-Obama pick: ''My Job''
''Mr. Obama's brand is authentic, clearly understood and has been built with set-piece speeches and interviews,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''However, his larger-than-life ability to inspire does not sit well with point-by-point attacks. Attacks are, by their very nature, uninspiring, as they tear down rather than build up.
''So as a brand, Obama has an issue with attacking directly as it undermines what gives his brand strength. However, Romney does his work for him with the most self-destructive quote of the entire campaign -- the infamous 47 percent -- allowing Obama a full-fronted attack without uttering a word. 'Listen to Romney,' it suggests. 'Need we say more?' ''
Pro-Romney pick: ''Give Me a Break,'' a Romney campaign ad that repurposes an attack on Mr. Obama by former President Bill Clinton from the 2008 Democratic primary.
''As an executive with a businesslike persona,'' Mr. Johnson said of Mr. Romney, ''he is much more comfortable being on the attack. His competitiveness comes through more naturally than any vision for the future. His past debate performance bears this out even further.
''However, his smartest ad, I think, avoids reinforcing the sometimes negative, uncaring side of Romney by once again turning the opposition back on themselves -- in this instance, undermining Obama with the words of one of his strongest advocates, Bill Clinton.
''Making it even more effective, it works with the accepted inspirational Brand Obama, but suggests it's just 'a fairy tale.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Obama campaign's ''My Job'' commercial juxtaposes Mitt Romney's ''47 percent'' comments with pictures of veterans.
 In the ''Too Many Americans'' commercial, Mr. Romney makes his case to voters without directly attacking President Obama. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); OLYMPICS (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); WINTER SPORTS (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (66%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); WINTER OLYMPICS (66%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1217 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: America for Beginners (or the Forgetful)

BYLINE: RUTH FREMSON


HIGHLIGHT: Compiling images for his fourth book was like getting a primer in his own career, as the photographer Arthur Grace found countless pictures that he didn't remember taking. 

 BODY:
Imagine if someone put a gun to Arthur Grace's head and asked him if he had photographed Evel Knievel jumping over trucks in Worcester, Mass.
He would be a dead man.
Mr. Grace doesn't even remember seeing Mr. Knievel in 1976 - or any other year. At least that's how he explains the shot on the back cover of his fourth book, "America 101." This photographic amnesia extends to an image of a mixed-race couple at a swimming pool (Slide 10) and many other moments, as viewers time travel through America's recent past.
For nearly four decades of a nonstop career traveling the world, Mr. Grace carried a Leica rangefinder and took personal black-and-white photos. He thought they might have some potential one day - if he ever had the luxury to stop shooting and pore over his archives to recognize it. 
The idea for the book had it roots in the photographer Elliot Erwitt's suggestion that going back over early work can be a photographer's smartest move. 
"You owe it to yourself to go back and look," Mr. Grace recalled. "That's the way you do it to find the interesting photos. To find the ones you forgot. I took his advice."
Mr. Grace started with United Press International in 1972, then worked as the New England photo correspondent for The New York Times, and began freelancing for People and Time magazines in 1974. He joined Newsweek's staff in 1986, then, during the early 1990s, he transitioned from photojournalism to film, advertising and corporate work.
His first book, "Choose Me" - a collection of images from the 1988 presidential campaign - was published in 1989, followed by "Comedians," which sold 25,000 copies. Then, he said, he couldn't sell anything for the next 15 years until 2006, when he published "State Fair."
By 2008, he finally had the time and started recalling all those images from the various archives of publications and agencies he had worked for in the past.
"It was my life coming back, reminding me where I've been, what I'd covered," he said. "Certain things you'll always remember, obviously. But others? It was assignment after assignment after assignment it gets lost in the shuffle of the Rolodex of your brain."
When Mr. Grace began digging through his archives, he wondered where all his personal photos over the years fit in. He had published three books on aspects of American culture: presidential elections, comedians and state fairs. But he searched for the common thread in it all.
"I've been all these places. I've seen all these things. What defines it?" he wondered. "The cultural DNA of what makes up this country and what represents and defines us as Americans. With that in my head I started editing the pictures."
Mr. Grace turned to people outside of photojournalism to help him edit the work, especially Brett Abbott, curator of photography at the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, and James Gilbert, the former gallery director of the Fahey/Klein Gallery in Los Angeles.
"Most photographers get very sensitive when somebody edits their work," he said. "They fall in love with their pictures and that's fine but it depends what you're using it for. If you want to put out a project, maybe you need to hear some other voices, to have other eyeballs looking at them and the key thing is to listen to them."
He did.
"Everything I thought they were wrong about when I got the copy in my hands, they were right about," Mr. Grace said. "If I had done it my way, I would have been missing some pictures I really like now, that really work well."
The book's cover image of a Maine couple sitting on a rickety porch hitched to their trailer is one that Mr. Grace took while on assignment (with "the legendary" Times reporter, John Kifner). Although he hadn't saved it, it was plucked from the box of negatives that the Times lab manager William O'Donnell sent to him.
His favorite image in the book is of the Hatt family, potato farmers in Maine (Slide 9), which was the result of an all-too-familiar situation for many newspaper photographers. Mr. Grace had received a call from an editor at The Times saying that a writer had already reported a story on the plight of potato farmers in Maine and they needed a photo by the next afternoon. Mr. Grace got in his car, drove five hours, found a hotel at 11 p.m., had a candy bar for dinner, and got up early to make a critical, storytelling photo. He was on a tight deadline and without guidance about where to go.
Hours later, feeling discouraged, he was speeding down a country road when he saw a white head of hair pop out of a ramshackle house. He hit the brakes, made a screeching U-turn, got out of the car with his heart pounding, apologized for startling a frail old woman and explained what he was doing. Her son came up behind her looking equally worn out.
Mr. Grace asked if he could take a portrait.
"She asked if her other son can be in the picture," Mr. Grace said. "She calls to him and out comes the guy with one leg on crutches my fingers were tingling; I couldn't believe I had everything I was looking for."
It was because of that photo that he was flown to New York where he met Abe Rosenthal, the legendary Times editor, and learned that the newspaper had submitted the image for the Pulitzer Prize for feature photography. Just as gratifying was a letter he received from a man who saw the images years later on a blog. The man wrote: "The Hatt family? I was their next-door neighbor. I went to school with the boys. I want you to know that that was an excellent photograph. That was a true picture of what it was like at that time. That picture will always stick with me."
For Mr. Grace, the pictures that mean a lot to him date back to 1970s Boston, when the city was in upheaval over court-ordered busing and school desegregation.
"That was an ugly time in Boston," he said. "Every picture in there has meaning to me. We've gone over it so many times trying to get just the right picture."
Granted, sometimes the right picture can be one you never remembered taking. Luckily, Mr. Grace recalled Mr. Erwitt's advice, which is a valuable lesson for any photographer.
And the title, "America 101"? That's a final lesson, too.
"It's like Econ 101, in college," Mr. Grace said. "That's your basic course. That's what the book is: a visual crash course on what Americans are like. If you want to know, open the book."
 Follow Lens on Facebook and Twitter. 

        
A Photographer and a Prayer
        
Life on Both Sides of the Border
        
It's Not About Winning the Game
        
Partners in Words, Pictures and Life
        
Odd Shadows in a Sunny Land

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (76%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); ELECTIONS (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (63%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (63%) Abe Rosenthal; America 101; American scenes; Arthur Grace; Black-and-white photography; John Kifner; Ruth Fremson; Kifner, John; Knievel, Evel; Photography; High Museum of Art; New York Times; From the Archive

COMPANY: UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: High Museum of Art; New York Times

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

PERSON: Kifner, John; Knievel, Evel

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1218 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: At SEMA, Toyota Avalon Tries Hanging With the Cool Kids

BYLINE: JERRY GARRETT


HIGHLIGHT: Long derided as Toyota's Buick, the Avalon has been dressed in the finery of "The Fast and the Furious" for its star turn at the trade show in Las Vegas. 

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- The full-size Avalon sedan, often damned with faint praise as Toyota's Buick, is aiming for a different image, if not a different demographic, with a complete redesign for the 2013 model year. In an effort to give the Avalon a charisma transplant, Toyota is dressing it up in various new guises for this year's Specialty Equipment Market Association Show.
At SEMA, which opens a four-day run here on Tuesday, the cross-dressing Avalon will appear as a supercharged performance machine, a super-fly urban cruiser and as a highly strung hybrid. The concepts are the brainchild of Toyota's nascent Engagement Marketing department.
Dub Magazine, which had a field day taking the last-generation Chrysler 300 to such exaggerated extremes, has turned its high-wattage attentions to the Avalon, and with somewhat predictable results: Matte-black 22-inch custom wheels on low-profile Pirelli tires, a slammed suspension, lower-body aero kit, tinted windows, blacked-out chrome, custom suede seats and a thundering sound system.
Sorry, duffers, there's no longer space for your clubs. Three subwoofers and an array of amplifiers completely take over the trunk.
"Dub has proven here that the new Avalon makes a sharp urban ride," Keith Dahl, Toyota's Engagement Marketing and Motorsports National manager, said in a press release. "Their modifications give it an aggressive, yet classy look that might have been unexpected in the previous generation."
Unexpected might be an understatement; previous Avalons were, at most, customized with gold Toyota logos and lettering.
Toyota Racing Development, or T.R.D., the company's in-house racing department, also takes a whack at the Avalon's stodginess with the addition of a supercharger that significantly boosts the output of the stock 268-horsepower, 3.5-liter V-6 engine.
Shorter springs and tighter suspension settings help lower the car's body by about an inch, 19-inch wheels and Michelin Pilot Super Sport tires improve grip and a T.R.D. Big Brake kit enhances stopping power. T.R.D. applied a two-tone paint scheme, a matching grille, custom lighting and twin exhausts. Inside, there's leather, more leather and for good measure, a bit more leather.
The new Avalon Hybrid also is not exempt from the new dress code. In addition to suspension tuning and lowering, the Avalon HV concept wears custom blue-tint accents inside and outside the car, fancy exterior lighting upgrades, and silver-blue leather seating and trim accents on the dash, with lighting to match.
It is not clear whether any of the modifications would do anything to improve the Avalon Hybrid's combined fuel-economy rating of 40 miles per gallon.
Both the HV and T.R.D. versions also receive a 15-speaker JBL sound system, with dual trunk-mounted amps. 
"The new Avalon is an attractive target for performance enhancement," Mr. Dahl said. "Tuners always want to get their hands on a great new design with strong enthusiast appeal."

        
The Birth of a '66 Bronco, by Way of the 21st Century
        
Wheelies: The Kizashi-less Edition
        
Wheelies: The Growth Hormone Edition
        
Ahead of SEMA Show, Mopar Looms Large
        
Wheelies: The Double-Image Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SEDANS (90%); CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT (74%) avalon; customization; SEMA; SEMA Show; Toyota; Automobiles; Specialty Equipment Market Association; Toyota Motor Corporation; Las Vegas (Nev); Toyota Motor Corporation|TM|NYSE; Auto Shows; Design; Industry News

ORGANIZATION: SPECIALTY EQUIPMENT MARKET ASSOCIATION (91%) Specialty Equipment Market Association; Toyota Motor Corporation

TICKER: Toyota Motor Corporation; TM; NYSE

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (91%) NEVADA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1219 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: The End of Men, Revisited

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: The notion that the male economic advantage is coming to an end is debunked by a new statistical analysis, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. She recently edited and contributed to "For Love and Money: Care Provision in the United States." 
The title of Hanna Rosin's new book, "The End of Men," now serves as shorthand for a slightly less apocalyptic event: the end of male economic advantage.
Ms. Rosin and others, including Liza Mundy, author of "The Richer Sex," assert that this end is nigh. Those who disagree, like me, challenge many of their quantitative claims. We can now point to a new report from the American Association of University Women that exemplifies a better statistical methodology for analysis of the gender pay gap. It shows that young women still earn significantly less than equally qualified men.
The men-in-decline issue can't be reduced to numbers, but in a comprehensive critique in The New York Times, Stephanie Coontz highlights misleading inferences drawn from a marketing-firm study of several metropolitan areas showing that never-married childless women in their 20s out-earn men in the same category.
Much news coverage of this widely headlined study failed to note that the women and men being compared had very different characteristics. Metropolitan areas tend to attract white and well-educated women along with Hispanic and poorly educated men.
As a result, this comparison is misleading.

Driving this point home, Ms. Coontz drew on research by Philip Cohen, a University of Maryland sociologist, whose blog posts on the topic unfold like chapters in a murder mystery solved by forensic statistics. He shows that median earnings for men and women in what he terms "this odd, unrepresentative slice of the population" have been basically equal since at least 1990. He asserts serious interpretive mistakes in an opinion column in The New York Times and a cover story in Time. He also takes a hilariously skeptical look at the Alabama "matriarchy" featured in Ms. Rosin's book.
The most important substantive point is that comparisons of young men and women who are unmarried and childless don't tell us much about the dynamics of earnings inequalities related to the intersection between a traditional family division of labor and a modern market economy.
Taking care of family members is more than a lifestyle choice. It's a commitment that imposes particularly high costs on caregivers in the United States, especially mothers, partly because we don't offer much public assistance in the form of paid family leave or early childhood education.
Still, it is useful to compare the earnings of young women and men at an early stage of paid employment, before most have made such commitments.
In this context, the new American Association of University Women study, "Graduating to a Pay Gap," stands out as an example of state-of-the art statistical analysis. It focuses on young men and women with college degrees, working full time, one year after graduation, taking into account differences in college majors, grade point average, hours of work, occupations and tendency to work in the nonprofit sector. The results reveal a male pay advantage of about seven percentage points that can't be explained away. That is, the men earn $100 for every $93 the young women earn.
That advantage may well be the result of conscious or unconscious discrimination against women, more directly documented by experimental studies that submit résumés to potential employers identical in every respect except gender.
The study also shows that, on average, the female college graduates in the sample earn only about 82 percent of what the male college graduates earn, largely because they chose different college majors or decided to work for nonprofit organizations.
As the study notes, women might make different choices if they knew just how costly their preferences turn out to be. One serious consequence is that young women devote a larger share of their earnings to repayment of their college loans, even though they borrowed about the same amount.
In 2009, 47 percent of women and 39 percent of men working full time and repaying college loans one year after graduation were paying more than 8 percent of their earnings toward student loan debt - a threshold widely considered an indicator of economic stress.
In sum, while young women are more likely than young men to graduate from college, their diplomas don't generate equally rich rewards.
The American Association of University Women has a long and venerable history of setting the record straight. A research report it published in 1885 challenged the contention that higher education would harm women's ovaries.
There was apparently fear that it would lead to the end of men.

        
Contraceptive Economics
        
Patriarchal Norms Still Shape Family Care
        
Paycheck Fairness and Market Failure
        
Investing in Julia
        
Gender and the Polls

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WOMEN (92%); EQUAL PAY (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FAMILY (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); MEN (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); WRITERS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (74%); WOMEN WORKERS (74%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (69%); MARRIAGE (67%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (65%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (65%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); CHILDREN (64%); FORENSICS (64%); FAMILY LEAVE (60%) Daily Economist; Discrimination; earnings; Hanna; Income Inequality; Nancy Folbre; salaries; wage discrimination; women; women in the workforce; Rosin, Hanna; Labor and Jobs; Wages and Salaries; Women and Girls; American Assn of University Women; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY WOMEN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (54%) American Assn of University Women

PERSON: Rosin, Hanna

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1220 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1660 words

HEADLINE: This Week In Small Business: Frankenstorm!

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: An election indicator, the worst password, venture capital from the Small Business Administration, and have you tried advertising on Facebook? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
 The Big Story: Small Devices 
Apple introduces the iPad Mini, and here's everything you need to know about the new device. Google and Samsung introduce a Chrome laptop and a new Android tablet. Microsoft, its empire under siege, rolls out Windows 8 and the Surface tablet. Nathan Eddy believes that Windows 8 could both assist and confuse small-business owners: "The biggest risk Microsoft is taking with Windows 8 is the redesigned user interface, which has left users confused when trying to learn the new system." Most companies will not be early adopters of the new operating system. Matt Burns says the Surface "is not a tablet, it's a PC."
 The Election: An Indicator 
Small-business owners in swing states called the third debate a victory for President Obama. But Ryan Higa could be the dark horse. The Federal Reserve plans to keep buying bonds; many believe the election will affect the chairman's future. Sales of Halloween masks indicate a win for Mr. Obama. A lawyer advises employers to be wary about telling employees how to vote.
 Economy: The Bright Spot 
Russell Investments updates its state of the economy with all but one indicator within normal range. Orders for durable goods rebound. FedEx forecasts online shoppers will generate a holiday record. Equipment-financing confidence holds steady. The United States is experiencing a renaissance in oil production and is expected to be the world's largest producer. Goldman Sachs predicts an end to high oil prices. Kate Mackenzie thinks the United States is the bright spot of the world. Still, manufacturing contracts in the Richmond, Va., Fed district and the steel industry continue to decline. DuPont cuts 1,500 jobs, and Dow Chemical plans to close plants and lay off 2,400 workers. Stocks plunged Tuesday on earnings woes. John Mason believes that economic policies continue to weigh on the dollar. Home sales are rising, but Bill McBride isn't impressed: "Even with a 20 percent-plus increase this year, 2012 will be the third or fourth lowest year since the Census Bureau started tracking new home sales in 1963." The most recent Sage business index of nearly 11,000 small- and medium-size companies shows a significant fall in local market confidence. Which is scarier: the fiscal cliff or Frankenstorm? 
 Start-Up: Women Veterans 
A new study finds that more than half of women veterans who own businesses say their leadership experience in the military inspired them to start their businesses, and another report finds that growth in businesses owned by women has paralleled increased contributions by women across the economy. Meanwhile, a conference for start-up founders is criticized for its lack of women. Denver has its start-up week. John Patrick Pullen suggests nine cities you wouldn't think are hubs for tech start-ups. Tanya Prive says these are the venture capitalists every start-up should know. Martha Pierce asks why start-ups fail.
 People: Employee Burnout
John O'Farrell gives advice for hiring your next vice president for sales. A study finds that many people like to overestimate the number of hours they work. A report concludes that federal employees earn 8 percent more than their private-sector counterparts. Verne Harnish suggests five ways to find extraordinary employees. Wal-Mart has entered another battle with its employees. Over 30 years, Microsoft employees have raised $1 billion for charities. Christina DesMarais lists five Silicon Valley tech companies everyone wants to work for. Managers who consider hiring ex-military people are sometimes deterred by the possibility that candidates have post-traumatic stress disorder. Employee burnout increases. An impromptu board meeting springs up in a Staples store.
 Social Media: Warming to Facebook Ads 
Kerry O'Shea Gorgone has a guide to minimizing legal risks in social media. Marcus Sheridan explains why our definition of social media engagement and interaction is wrong. Local businesses are starting to warm up to Facebook ads. Amy Nielson believes that one of the best ways to market your business is to create your own social media network. If you follow this pizza chain on Twitter, it will really follow you back. Twelve feline finalists are announced for this year's Friskies.
 Marketing: Abandoning AdWords? 
Greg Sterling does not believe small-business owners are abandoning AdWords. Marty Diamond thinks your landing pages may suffer from a lack of focus. In this commercial, passengers in an elevator are frightened. Jeanmarie Bills and Elena J. Forbes have some tips on how to create a blog for your business. Brad Hanner says you need an online presence.
 Red Tape: The Internal Redistribution Service 
So far, it appears the Affordable Care Act is not causing small businesses to drop their employees' coverage. And sorry, men's club owners, but it seems lap dances are indeed taxable in New York State. A guy lights up his house for Halloween - Gangnam style. Peter Schweizer says the Internal Revenue Service "is morphing into the Internal Redistribution Service."
 Sales: Born to Fail 
Here are six reasons to walk away from a deal. Brian Carroll suggests five steps to ensure your lead generation stays on target. Here's how to turn your iPad into a Square point of sale register, and here's some good advice on pricing your products. These products were born to fail.
 Management: Worst Decisions Ever 
Here are the worst business decisions of all time. Mark Zuckerberg, Ben Silbermann and Ben Horowitz talk about lessons learned. Linda Clevenger has some time-management tips for entrepreneurs. George Bradt suggests three steps to a winning attitude for a service business. Andy Birol says you need to answer these questions. Deanne Katz gives advice on avoiding burnout. Ilana Rabinowitz says you should make competition irrelevant. Felix Salmon explains why Apple doesn't care about its competition. Gwen Moran evaluates the strengths and weaknesses of four leadership styles.
 Around the Country: Farmland Prices 
While the big businesses in aerospace and defense make headlines, small companies form the backbone of the East Valley in Arizona. Here's what happens when Seattle becomes empty. The Army Corps of Engineers' Engineering and Support Center in Huntsville, Ala., will hold a small-business forum on Nov. 9. In New York, a restaurant taps Instagram users to create a visual menu. Farmland prices continue to soar, and the effects of this summer's historic drought are yet to be known.
 Around the World: Sticker Shock 
The Bank of Spain sends a warning. The United States is the fourth easiest country in the world (PDF) to do business in. A Korean start-up adjusts to life in London. The cost of living can cause sticker shock, depending on where you do business. Ikea is using wind and sun to be energy independent.
 Cash Flow: Surplus Capital 
U.S. Bank is offering a new way for customers to pay for online purchases with Visa debit or credit cards. A new version of Google Wallet is coming. Small Business Administration loans to small-business exporters are on the rise, and the agency's venture capital program grows even as overall venture capital dollars decline. Mark Bell asks if you know what it means to evaluate your spend. Angie Mohr says there are four financial yardsticks for your business. The Principal Financial Well-Being Index finds that 63 percent of small-business owners have surplus capital but that 73 percent of those who have it are not spending it.
 Technology: The Worst Password 
Bizelo, a cloud software start-up, is creating a collection of small-business applications. Amazon Cloud goes down again. Customer data is hacked at Barnes & Noble. Facebook reports better than expected earnings, and Peter Gabriel asks his Facebook fans to recreate "Sledgehammer." New research promises to increase bandwidth tenfold. Password tops the list of the worst passwords of 2012. Professors develop a real-life "Star Trek" tractor beam. Bob Lefsetz shares some dos and don'ts, like: "Don't think Apple is forever." James Bond uses an Android smartphone. If you're not interested in tech, here's how to pick up a girl at the gym.
 Best Tweets of the Week 
@ValaAfsharThe web is your resume and social networks are your mass references. Paper CVs will disappear in 5 years.
@PFripp
I don't judge a company by the people who travel by corporate jet; I judge a company by the ones who answer the phone and carry your bags.
 Bests of the Week 
 Deborah Brown thinks that entrepreneurs need to have more fun: "Delegate or eliminate. If the day-to-day tasks are weighing you down, find ways around them. Are you asking for help with the chores, or are you doing everything yourself? What can you order online so you don't have to go to the store? And who can you hire to help with the cleaning, laundry, cooking, etc.? Yes, these things cost money, but do you think that not having fun is costing you more?"
 Adrian Swinscoe says to apply the granny test to get closer to your customers: "Take a step back and look at the language that you use in your marketing, sales and customer service, and ask yourself if it is in your customer's language. Not convinced? Then try this: apply the granny test, i.e., give your marketing materials to your Granny and ask her if she gets what you are talking about. If she does, then she is either an expert in your field or you're doing a great job. If not, then you know what to do."
 This Week's Question: Have you tried advertising on Facebook?
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week In Small Business: Looking Stupid on Twitter
        
This Week in Small Business: Gangnam Style!
        
This Week in Small Business: They're Talking About Us!
        
This Week in Small Business: About That Replacement Ref
        
This Week in Small Business: $931 Billion in Cash

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); WOMEN (85%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); NEW HOME SALES (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); HALLOWEEN (71%); CHEMICALS (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (64%); EQUIPMENT FINANCING (64%); CENSUS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); RESEARCH REPORTS (60%); LAYOFFS (54%) economy; Small Business; Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (55%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); GS (NYSE) (55%); DOW (SWX) (53%); DOW (NYSE) (53%); DOW (LSE) (53%); 4850 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (73%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1221 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Hurricane Sandy Likely to Be Biggest of Late October Surprises

BYLINE: MICHAEL COOPER


HIGHLIGHT: Hurricane Sandy is hardly the only late October surprise to disturb the careful choreography of recent presidential campaigns, though it will probably be the most disruptive. 

 BODY:
 Hurricane Sandy is hardly the only late October surprise to disturb the careful choreography of recent presidential campaigns, though it will probably be the most disruptive. 
 The late October surprises of recent elections have been much more subtle - changes at the 11th hour that had far less impact on the nation and its voters, but which nonetheless forced campaigns off their carefully drafted blueprints just before Election Day. Here is a look at a few. 
 Four years ago, President Obama left the frenzied campaign trail only 11 days before the election to travel to Hawaii to say goodbye to his ailing grandmother, who had helped raise him. He then returned to the final sprint of the campaign, which had already been upended by the September surprise of the financial crisis, and she died the day before he was elected president. 
 In the waning days of the 2004 election, the race was upended by the release of a video of Osama bin Laden telling the American people, "Your security is not in the hands of Kerry or Bush or Al Qaeda; your security is in your own hands." Some analysts believed that its release helped President George W. Bush win re-election, by putting the focus on terrorism just before people went to the polls. 
 And days before the 2000 election, news leaked that Mr. Bush had been arrested in 1976 for drunken driving in Kennebunkport, Me., throwing a late curveball into the campaign.
 Hurricane Sandy promised to be a much bigger late October surprise. The candidates have scrambled their schedules to avoid the storm; Maryland suspended its early voting on Monday, and other states may follow suit; the Sunday talk shows were pre-empted in large parts of the East Coast for hurricane coverage; television stations in some states are not running the ads both campaigns bought as they cover the storm nonstop; and both campaigns are having to calculate how to continue their tasks of trying to persuade voters without seeming callous in the face of a potential disaster. And looming behind it all is the worry that lasting damage could disrupt the election in places. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); HURRICANE SANDY (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AL-QAEDA (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%); ARRESTS (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%) Hurricane Sandy (2012); Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1222 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Anderson Cooper Talk Show Won't Return for a Third Season

BYLINE: BILL CARTER


HIGHLIGHT: The talk show from Mr. Cooper, who is also a mainstay in prime time on CNN, never drew the ratings that had been expected. 

 BODY:
 The syndication arm of the Warner Brothers studio has decided that there will not be a third season of "Anderson," the daily talk show hosted by Anderson Cooper.
Citing disappointing ratings, a studio executive, who insisted on not being identified because the studio had planned no official release on the decision, said on Monday that the entire talk television market has been struggling to build audiences. Mr. Cooper's show, which is produced by Telepictures, will end after the summer of 2013.
The executive spoke because some of the stations that have been carrying Mr. Cooper's show have begun making feelers about replacement shows, and the news was certain to leak out through one of them, the executive said.
The Warner Brothers syndication unit issued a statement on Monday:
"We are extremely proud of Anderson and the show that he and the entire production team have produced. While we made significant changes to the format, set and produced it live in its second season, the series will not be coming back for a third season in a marketplace that has become increasingly difficult to break through. We will continue to deliver top-quality shows throughout next summer."
Mr. Cooper released his own statement:
"I am very proud of the work that our terrific staff has put into launching and sustaining our show for two seasons. I am also grateful to Telepictures for giving me the opportunity, and indebted to viewers, who have responded so positively. I look forward to doing more great shows this season, and though I'm sorry we won't be continuing, I have truly enjoyed it."
The decision was not a reflection of any lack of faith in Mr. Cooper, the executive said, but an acknowledgement of the business realities in daytime talk television.
The studio "could have renewed the show but could not create a viable economic business model to move forward," the executive said.
Even Katie Couric's much anticipated new talk show has not yet emerged as a bona fide hit, the executive said. And new shows with other hosts, including Jeff Probst and Ricki Lake, have fared poorly.
But Mr. Cooper, who is also a mainstay in prime time on CNN, had been expected to be a star in daytime talk when his show started last fall. After one year with sub-par ratings, the studio and Mr. Cooper instituted a series of changes including stressing same-day tapings as often as possible to deal with breaking subjects, and a new location for the studio. 
Mr. Cooper was on assignment for CNN in New Jersey on Monday, covering Hurricane Sandy.

        
NBC Continues Its Unlikely Run Atop in the Ratings
        
Warner Brothers Wins Legal Case Over Rights to Superman
        
CNN to Interview Reddit's Violentacrez: A Troll Comes Out From Under the Bridge
        
'Walking Dead' Sets Ratings Record on AMC
        
Erica Hill Moving to NBC for Weekend Edition of 'Today'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%) Anderson (TV Program); Cooper, Anderson; Ratings (Audience Measurement); Warner Brothers; Television

COMPANY: WARNER BROTHERS STUDIO STORES INTERNATIONAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Warner Brothers

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (57%) Cooper, Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012



1223 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Behind an Estimated $30 Trillion Drain on Banks, a Lot of Hypotheticals

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: A banking industry group looked into a new derivatives rule and sketched out a situation in which banks were forced to come up with as much as $30 trillion in cash. But a deeper look suggests that many of the worries might be overdone. 

 BODY:
Imagine a situation in which the world's banks have to find as much as $30 trillion to comply with just one new regulation. That might be something of a stretch, given that the gross domestic product of the United States is only $15.8 trillion, and the world's 10 largest banks hold only $25 trillion of assets.
Yet a banking industry group recently looked into a new rule and sketched out a possibility in which banks were forced to come up with as much as $30 trillion in cash.
The potential cash call is outlined in a letter the International Swaps and Derivatives Association sent in September to regulators. It is the latest eye-popping number that lobbying firms and banks have produced to support their view that many new regulations will be enormously expensive - and the big, scary numbers seem to be gaining traction.
Some of the concern may be warranted, especially in Europe, where certain stressed banks have had trouble borrowing regular amounts in the markets. But a deeper look at the industry association's $30 trillion figure suggests that many of the worries might be overdone.
The gargantuan sum relates to the market for derivatives, which are financial contracts that banks and investors use to bet on interest rates, stock prices, creditworthiness of corporations and the like.
Derivatives played a central role in the 2008 financial crisis. The market for many contracts was opaque, which stoked panic when certain players started to falter.
Before the financial crisis, big participants like large Wall Street banks were often able to avoid following certain rules intended to make the market safer. One of those practices involves something called initial margin. This is the cash or easy-to-sell assets that parties have to set aside at the outset of a derivatives trade. If one side can't pay up, the other side can make a claim on the initial margin.
Now, regulators want to tighten up the margin rules. To do so, they are introducing regulations aimed at pushing derivatives trades through entities called central clearinghouses. These organizations effectively agree to pay out if one side of the original trade cannot pay.
Because of that pledge, clearinghouses have to make sure they can pay out if one party defaults. One way they do this is to demand margin from the parties that trade through them.
But a large number of derivatives trades won't necessarily go through clearinghouses, even after the overhaul is in place. Such trades will still be done directly between two financial firms.
Regulators have proposed rules that force firms to supply initial margin on these so-called bilateral trades, too. These rules, which won't apply to pre-existing trades, may not come into effect until late 2013 in the United States.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association and many others want to stop or water down those margin rules on bilateral trades. In its paper, the association argued against initial margin rules, saying they were "likely to lead to a significant liquidity drain on the market, estimated to be in the region of $15.7 trillion to $29.9 trillion." In other words, it believes there is a possibility that the rule could cost $30 trillion.
So, how likely is such a drain? A clue can be found in the $14 trillion range in the association's estimates.
Under its lower estimate, the industry group assumes that many banks calculate their derivatives exposures in an advantageous manner sanctioned by the proposed regulations. Specifically, the rules allow banks to offset certain trades with each other. This has the effect of reducing a bank's overall derivatives exposure for the purposes of calculating margin.
The upshot: Less margin is needed. At one stage in its analysis, the derivatives association says using this approach might reduce by half the overall amount of derivatives in the calculation.
But why wouldn't the reduction be far more than $14 trillion, or roughly 50 percent? After all, net exposure can be reduced quite sharply by using the offsetting method. For instance, a bank may have $50 billion on trades betting that stocks go up and $49 billion on trades betting stocks go down, leading to a $1 billion net exposure for the bank.
Steven Kennedy, a spokesman for the association, says it chose 50 percent based partly on its estimates of how many firms might have the required technology to carry out offsetting. In essence, the numbers involve a lot of hypothetical assumptions.
This weakness applies to other, lower-margin estimates from opponents of the new rules.
Last year, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, a federal bank regulator, estimated that initial margin rules could lead to a $2 trillion burden for banks, a smaller but still alarming figure. The number was cited in several letters and studies from lawyers and lobbyists arguing against the margin rule. The comptroller listed three factors that might lead to banks posting less than $2 trillion. But, the study added, "at present, we are unable to estimate the mitigating effects of these three factors."
Bryan Hubbard, a spokesman for the comptroller, said the paper reflected the comptroller's best analysis at the time. He added, "The O.C.C. is likely to update the analysis when a final rule is issued."
Other opponents of initial margin rules have been similarly vague when gauging factors that might reduce the burden. JPMorgan Chasesent a letterlast year to regulators criticizing the initial margin rule, saying it might need to collect $1.4 trillion from its trading partners if it did not use the offsetting approach. The letter did say an offsetting approach might "produce smaller initial margin amounts." Still, it didn't specify how much smaller.
The initial-margin rules may prompt some firms to stop doing bilateral derivatives trades. Some financial companies have even started down that path.
In the face of new margin rules, Berkshire Hathaway said this year that it would not be entering any big new derivatives bets. "We shun contracts of any type that could require the instant posting of collateral," Warren E. Buffett, the company's chief executive, wrote in its latest annual report.

        
Regulators Propose Capital Rules for Derivatives Trading
        
Lawmakers Seek Urgency in Volcker Rule

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (91%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); INTEREST RATES (51%) Derivatives (Financial Instruments); International Swaps and Derivatives Assn; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; News Analysis

ORGANIZATION: International Swaps and Derivatives Assn

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1224 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Nurses, Addicted to Helping People

BYLINE: ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D.


HIGHLIGHT: "The American Nurse," a coffee-table book by the photographer Carolyn Jones, tells the stories of 75 nurses in their own words. 

 BODY:
When a book is heavy with glossy photographs, you seldom expect too much from its words. In "The American Nurse," though, it's the narrative that hits you in the solar plexus.
Take the comments of Jason Short, a hospice nurse in rural Kentucky. Mr. Short started out as an auto mechanic, then became a commercial trucker. "When the economy went under," he says, "I thought it would be a good idea to get into health care." But a purely pragmatic decision became a mission: Mr. Short found his calling among the desperately ill of Appalachia and will not be changing careers again.
"Once you get a taste for helping people, it's kind of addictive," he says, dodging the inspirational verbiage that often smothers the healing professions in favor of a single incontrovertible point.
Some of the 75 nurses who tell their stories in this coffee-table book headed into the work with adolescent passion; others backed in reluctantly just to pay the bills. But all of them speak of their difficult, exhilarating job with the same surprised gratitude: "It's a privilege and honor to do what I do," says one. "I walk on sacred ground every day."
They hail from a few dozen health care settings around the country, ranging from large academic institutions like Johns Hopkins in Baltimore to tiny facilities like the Villa Loretto Nursing Home in Mount Calvary, Wis., home to 50 patients and a collection of goats, sheep and other animals on a therapeutic farm. Some nurses are administrators, some staff wards or emergency rooms, some visit patients at home. Many are deeply religious, a few are members of the military, and a handful of immigrants were doctors in their home countries.
All describe unique professional paths in short first-person essays culled from video interviews conducted by the photographer Carolyn Jones. Their faces beam out from the book in Ms. Jones's black-and-white headshots, a few posing with a favorite patient or with their work tools - a medevac helicopter, a stack of prosthetic limbs or a couple of goats.
But even the best photographs are too static to capture people who never stop moving once they get to work. For a real idea of what goes on in their lives, you have to listen to them talk.
Here is Mary Helen Barletti, an intensive care nurse in the Bronx: "My whole life I've marched to a the beat of a different drummer. I used to have purple hair, which I'd blow-dry straight up. I wore tight jeans, high heels and - God forgive me - fur (now I am an animal rights activist). My patients loved it. They said I was like sunshine coming into their room."
Says Judy Ramsay, a pediatric nurse in Chicago: "For twelve years I took care of children who would never get better. People ask how I could do it, but it was the most fulfilling job of my life. We couldn't cure these kids, but we could give them a better hour or even a better minute of life. All we wanted to do was make their day a little brighter."
Says Brad Henderson, a nursing student in Wyoming: "I decided to be a nurse because taking care of patients interested me. Once I started, nursing just grabbed me and made me grow up."
Says Amanda Owen, a wound care nurse at Johns Hopkins: "My nickname here is 'Pus Princess.' I don't talk about my work at cocktail parties."
John Barbe, a hospice nurse in Florida, sums it up: "When I am out in the community and get asked what I do for a living, I say that I work at Tidewell Hospice, and there's complete silence. You can hear the crickets chirping. It doesn't matter because I love what I do; I can't stay away from this place."
The volume is not entirely about selfless service: It was underwritten by Fresenius-Kabi, a German health care corporation and leading supplier of intravenous drugs in the United States. Presumably, crass public relations motives lurk somewhere in the background. But that's no real reason to be meanspirited about the result, a compelling advertisement for an honorable profession.
Young people with kind hearts and uncertain futures might just sit themselves down with the book, or wander through the Web site featuring its video interviews, www.americannurseproject.com, and see what happens.

        
When It's the Nurse Who Needs Looking After
        
The Faces of Alzheimer's
        
An Aging Mother, With More to Give
        
When Nurses Make Mistakes
        
Tuning In to Patients' Cries for Help

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NURSES & NURSING (92%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MAMMALS (86%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HOSPICE (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); NURSING HOMES (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (70%); RELIGION (70%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (64%); AGING (64%); HELICOPTERS (50%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (50%) nurses; photo essay; Jones, Carolyn; Elder Care; Hospice Care; Medicine and Health; Nursing and Nurses; The American Nurse (Book); Art and Health; Books; Featured

PERSON: Jones, Carolyn

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (54%) MARYLAND, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012



1225 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Presidential Appointments to Keep

BYLINE: ALBERT R. HUNT


HIGHLIGHT: Some significant presidential appointments are looming, regardless of who wins the election on Nov. 6. New secretaries of state and the Treasury will have to be selected, and later, a new chairman of the Federal Reserve to succeed Ben Bernanke. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - The next president will make many appointments with important policy implications. Three stand out: the secretaries of state and Treasury and later, the next chairman of the Federal Reserve Board.
If Mr. Obama is re-elected, the leading candidates to replace Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is stepping aside, are the United Nations envoy, Susan Rice, and Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
Ms. Rice had been considered the favorite until she became ensnared in the controversy over the deaths of U.S. diplomats in Libya.
The most frequently mentioned appointee for secretary of state in a Mitt Romney administration is Robert Zoellick, the former deputy secretary of state in the George W. Bush years and later the head of the World Bank. He's the choice of the Republican foreign policy establishment, though the more unilateralist and aggressive neo-conservatives already are waging a campaign against him - part of the intra-party debate over foreign policy that I address in my latest Letter from Washington.
A Romney favorite is his top foreign policy adviser, Richard Williamson, who has held numerous diplomatic posts. Nonetheless, some question whether he has the gravitas for the job.
For Treasury, if Mr. Obama takes the conventional approach, he'll probably select Jacob Lew, White House chief of staff; some insiders speculate the president would have to go with someone with good ties to the business community. 
Mr. Romney is likely to either choose a business executive or his top economic adviser, Glenn Hubbard, the dean of Columbia University's business school, who is lobbying for the job. Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, who is respected by Democrats as well as Republicans, is mentioned as a candidate for several top jobs.
Ben Bernanke's term as chairman of the Fed ends in a little more than a year, and Mr. Obama would probably pick either Janet Yellen, the vice chair of the Fed's Board of Governors, or a former vice chair, Roger Ferguson, as a way to ensure continuity. 
Mr. Romney would likely go with the conservative Stanford University economist John Taylor, or Mr. Hubbard. Both have been highly critical of the Fed's efforts to stimulate the economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (91%); FOREIGN POLICY (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LOBBYING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; United States; Page Two

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); SUSAN RICE (72%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); ROGER W FERGUSON JR (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); ROB PORTMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1226 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: Clean Harbors to Acquire Safety-Kleen for $1.25 Billion

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: After filing for an initial public offering, Safety-Kleen has found another way to let its owners cash out: by selling the company. 

 BODY:
After filing for an initial public offering, Safety-Kleen has found another way to let its owners cash out: by selling the company. 
On Monday, Safety-Kleen said it would be acquired by Clean Harbors, a provider of environmental cleanup services, for $1.25 billion in cash. 
If completed, the transaction will bring yet another new owner for Safety-Kleen, which focuses on recycling used oil and cleaning industrial parts. 
 Founded in 1963 as a parts-washing business, the company later became publicly traded. It was then acquired by Laidlaw in 1998, following a hostile takeover campaign. Questions over Safety-Kleen's accounting practices prompted the company to file for bankruptcy protection two years later, handing control to creditors like Highland Capital Management, Contrarian Capital Management and JPMorgan Chase.
After emerging from bankruptcy, Safety-Kleen sought to go public in 2008, but had to scrap those plans because of the financial crisis. It filed for an I.P.O. again in August, giving investors a potential opportunity to pare back their holdings.
The company currently has more than 200 locations in North America, including large oil re-refineries in East Chicago, Ind., and Breslau, Ontario. It reported $1.3 billion in revenue and $135 million in net income last year.
Its new owner, Clean Harbors, has expanded in part through takeovers. Monday's deal is by far the largest in the company's 32-year history, according to Standard & Poor's Capital IQ.
"This acquisition is a landmark achievement for Clean Harbors that we believe will build significant long-term value for our shareholders," Alan S. McKim, chairman and chief executive of Clean Harbors, said in a statement. "Adding Safety-Kleen's re-refining and recycling capabilities to our current offerings will enhance the sustainability options available to our existing customers and significantly broaden the range of services we can offer customers of both companies."
The two companies have previously done business together. In 2002, Clean Harbors purchased Safety-Kleen's chemical services division for $310 million.
The latest transaction is expected to close by year's end, with Clean Harbors continuing to use the Safety-Kleen brand.
Safety-Kleen was advised by Credit Suisse, Morgan Stanley, Houlihan Lokey and the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom. Clean Harbors was counseled by the law firm Davis, Malm & D'Agostine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (91%); TAKEOVERS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (57%) Clean Harbors Inc; Safety-Kleen Corporation; Clean Harbors Inc|CLH|NASDAQ; Safety-Kleen Corporation|SKLNQ|other-OTC; Energy; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: SAFETY-KLEEN INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (81%); DAVIS MALM & D'AGOSTINE PC (62%); HIGHLAND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CORP (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Clean Harbors Inc; Safety-Kleen Corporation

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%) Clean Harbors Inc; CLH; NASDAQ; Clean Harbors Inc; CLH; NASDAQ; Safety-Kleen Corporation; SKLNQ; other-OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (91%); NAICS562112 HAZARDOUS WASTE COLLECTION (91%); NAICS423930 RECYCLABLE MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (54%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1227 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1934 words

HEADLINE: Oct. 28: In Swing States, a Predictable Election?

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: The presidential polling in most swing states now looks very similar to the way it did for much of the late spring and summer. 

 BODY:
The conventional wisdom about this year's presidential race is that it has broken out of stasis to become wildly unpredictable. 
And yet, after a period of polling turmoil following President Obama's convention in Charlotte, N.C., and Mitt Romney's sharp rebound after the first presidential debate in Denver, the polling in most swing states now looks very similar to the way it did for much of the late spring and summer.
When we introduced this year's FiveThirtyEight forecast model on June 7, the closest states were Colorado, Ohio and Virginia, each of which slightly favored Mr. Obama. In Florida and North Carolina, meanwhile, we had Mitt Romney listed as a modest favorite.
Pretty much the same could be said about the race today. In fact, our projected leader in all 50 states is the same as it was at our launch of the forecast in June.

The table below lists our projected results in the 18 states (and one Congressional district, in Nebraska) that were predicted to produce a single-digit race as of our original forecast in June. On average, our projection of the popular vote in each state has moved by just one and a half percentage points, in one or another direction, since then.
The change has been especially small in several of the most important battleground states. In June, Mr. Obama was projected to a 3-point lead in Nevada, a 2.3-point lead in Iowa, a 1.3-point lead in Virginia, a 1.1-point lead in Ohio and a 1-point lead in Colorado. The forecast in those states has moved just four-tenths of a point since then, on average; the largest shift has been in Ohio, where Mr. Obama's polling has been reasonably resilient and he now has a 2.2-point edge.
Which states have shown more movement? Wisconsin, clearly, became more competitive after Mr. Romney's selection of Representative Paul D. Ryan as his running mate. Mr. Obama enjoyed a more comfortable margin in New Hampshire in June than he does now. And in Indiana and Missouri, two states that are ordinarily red-leaning but which might qualify under a broad definition of swing states, the campaigns have spent few resources and polls there have gradually drifted toward showing a clearer edge for Mr. Romney. 
The states where Mr. Obama has made gains since the June forecast are fewer in number (although the fact that Ohio is among them makes Mr. Obama's electoral math stronger). Mr. Obama is running slightly stronger in Florida now than he was in June, although that still reflects a disappointment for him since he was leading in our forecast there before the Denver debate. Mr. Obama has also made gains in Oregon and New Jersey, counterparts to Indiana and Missouri in that they might have become competitive had Mr. Romney made more of an effort to contest them, but Mr. Romney did not do so.
In blue states, Mr. Obama's numbers are little changed on average from the June forecast. New York is one exception; polls there have shown an especially large lead for Mr. Obama, larger than we originally predicted. And Mr. Obama might have to settle for a single-digit margin of victory in New Mexico, but he is in little danger of losing it.
 Change in FiveThirtyEight Forecast -- Blue States 
It's in deeply red states where the forecast has shifted more. On average, Mr. Romney has gained two percentage points since June between the red states you see in the chart below.
Could the race really have been this stable? Part of it is in the way the FiveThirtyEight forecast is constructed, since it uses nonpolling factors in a state (like its past voting results, relative to the national mean) in cases where the polling is sparse, helping to avoid unwarranted fluctuations based on one or two outlier polls.
But consider this interpretation of events. Prior to the Democratic convention, Mr. Obama's favorability ratings exceeded his approval ratings by several points. The voters who took a favorable view of Mr. Obama but had lukewarm views of his performance may have represented easy targets for the president, and they were brought into the fold by the strong speeches given by Bill Clinton, Michelle Obama, and Joseph R. Biden Jr., who praised Mr. Obama's accomplishments. After the convention, Mr. Obama's approval ratings caught up with his favorability ratings, and his performance in horse-race polls against Mr. Romney improved as a result.
If Mr. Obama won over his share of Democratic-leaning undecided voters in Charlotte, however, Mr. Romney claimed most of the Republican-leaning ones after Denver. That event precipitated a sharp improvement in Mr. Romney's favorability ratings as voters saw him share the stage with Mr. Obama, and appear competent, confident and presidential. 
Some other truly undecided voters may have jumped on the bandwagon along the way, favoring Mr. Obama after Charlotte but Mr. Romney after Denver based on the momentum they perceived in the race. However, their support may be inherently fickle; Mr. Obama now appears to have regained roughly a percentage point of the support he lost after Denver, which may come from this group. (It may also be that the magnitude of the respective bounces was slightly exaggerated in the polls because of the tendency of more enthusiastic voters to respond to surveys.)
The national polls certainly look different than they did in June, but part of that may be artificial as well. 
In June, many of the national polls were conducted among registered voters rather than likely ones. In national polls that have reported both registered-voter and likely-voter results throughout the course of the year, Mr. Romney has run about three points stronger in the likely-voter version, on average. (Interestingly, this difference is smaller in state polls, where the difference is about two points on average.)
Some of what looks like movement toward Mr. Romney in other polling averages instead reflects pollsters switching to their likely-voter models. The FiveThirtyEight model, since its design converted registered-voter polls into likely-voter ones from the start, will recognize that a change in methodology is different than a new trend in the race.
This change has been less pronounced at the state level, since a larger fraction of the state polls were reporting likely-voter numbers to begin with. We alerted you back in August to the prospect that the different-seeming results between state and national polls would become more apparent as more national pollsters flipped over to their likely-voter models.
Of the remaining gains that Mr. Romney has made in national polls, much of it may have come from his improved performance in deeply red states; that is where our state-by-state forecasts show his numbers improving the most. It might be kept in mind that, during the Republican primaries, Mr. Romney's performance was strongest in states and counties that are Democratic-leaning in general elections, while being weaker in deeply red areas. As highly conservative voters became more comfortable with Mr. Romney, however, he made gains among them.
So sure, there have been some twists and turns along the way -- but that is true in every presidential election. Anyone who thinks this race has been especially wild need only look at the polling trajectory in 1976, 1980 or 1992 to get a sense for what a truly variable presidential election looks like. 
Over all, instead, this race has been fairly stable relative to most presidential elections. And especially in the state polls, the results we're now seeing are quite consistent with what the economic fundamentals might dictate: a very tight race, narrowly favoring Mr. Obama.
There is always the chance that the race could be disrupted again over the final week of the campaign, perhaps because of the candidates' responses to Hurricane Sandy. And there is the possibility that this will be one of those years where the polls miss the mark badly in one or another direction on Election Day.
There is a pretty good possibility, however, that our forecast in every state on Nov. 6 will be the same as it was on June 7. Colorado, Virginia and Florida, being the closest states in the forecast now, are the most likely to switch sides.
 Sunday's Polls 
The polls released on Sunday were mostly unremarkable. The eight national polls showed about a tied race, on average, with each candidate gaining ground in some polls but losing it in others.
The state polls out on Sunday were slightly favorable to Mr. Obama, with polls by the firm Public Policy Polling showing him making gains in Ohio, Florida and New Hampshire. In another poll of Ohio, from Gravis Marketing, Mr. Obama held a one-point edge, versus a tied race before.
It should be noted that Public Policy Polling is showing a more pronounced shift toward Mr. Obama than any other pollster. Their polls were strongly Democratic-leaning at the start of the year, but then showed a poor run of numbers for Mr. Obama after the Denver debate, with their polls often being slightly more Republican-leaning than the consensus. Now, Mr. Obama has rebounded in their surveys, typically by two or three percentage points in the different swing states that they've polled, to the point that they now seem to be Democratic-leaning again by a percentage point or two.
Our forecasts adjust for these pollster "house effects" -- whether pollsters are Republican- or Democratic-leaning relative to the consensus. But one innovation that we might consider in future years is to also apply an adjustment for the variance or "swinginess" in a poll. Some pollsters, like Public Policy Polling, American Research Group and Gallup, show more pronounced fluctuations. In others, like Rasmussen Reports and polls for the online firm YouGov, the numbers seem to move much less. There are sometimes logical reasons why these patterns occur -- Rasmussen Reports, for example, weighs the results by party identification, which tends to dampen swings (if also potentially missing real changes in the electorate).
Still, there are now so many active polling firms, especially in states like Ohio and Florida, that one or two new polls won't affect the forecast much. (In Ohio, Mr. Obama advanced only to a 2.2-point lead on the basis of the new surveys, as compared with a 2.1-point lead in Saturday's forecast.)
Even in this last full week before the election, I'd encourage you to take a more macroscopic view of the election. We have seen, broadly speaking, a mild recovery for Mr. Obama over the past week or so in the polls. Among polls that have surveyed the race more than once since Denver, his numbers have improved more often than they have worsened in the most recent edition of the survey, and Mr. Obama's predicted probability of winning the Electoral College has improved as a result (to 74.6 percent as of Sunday). 
Then again, it may be best not to make too much of these mild fluctuations. There certainly seemed to the the possibility in a brief period after Charlotte that Mr. Obama would run away with the race, although even then forecast expected some reversion to the mean. 
But other than in that convention bounce period, the polls have usually told about the same story: that Mr. Obama has a modest edge, but far from an insurmountable one, in the states necessary for him to win him 270 electoral votes. 
The forecast model is a bit more confident now about Mr. Obama's potential to turn that edge in to an Electoral College victory because there is so little time remaining in the race. 
Still, an election held today would probably keep us up quite late before we knew the result with much certainty -- and so, in all likelihood, will the one on Nov. 6.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Public Policy Polling; Politics; Polling

ORGANIZATION: Public Policy Polling

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); PAUL RYAN (79%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (88%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1228 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Pro-Romney Group Makes Big Ad Buy in Pennsylvania; Obama Campaign Follows

BYLINE: JEREMY W. PETERS


HIGHLIGHT: Restore Our Future, a pro-Romney "super-PAC," has put down about $2 million for a slate of television commercials in Pennsylvania, especially in the Philadelphia area, through next Monday. 

 BODY:
 12:02 p.m. | Updated The "super-PAC" aiding Mitt Romney, Restore Our Future, is making a push into Pennsylvania, a state that has been considered strong for President Obama.
On Monday the group put down about $2 million for a slate of television commercials through next Monday, the day before the presidential election.
The move prompted the Obama campaign to shift advertising resources there for the first time since July. It announced on Monday that it too would being airing commercials in the state.
The Restore Our Future purchase includes about $1.2 million in the voter-rich Philadelphia media market where Republicans believe they can make inroads with a number of different demographics, including Jewish voters who may be open the arguments put forward by the Romney campaign that Mr. Obama has not been supportive enough of Israel. Republicans have sought to drive distance between Mr. Obama and his Jewish constituency because of the recent tension between the United States and Israel over Iran.
Another group that has been advertising there is the Republican Jewish Coalition, which is airing an ad that features the founder of Home Depot, Bernie Marcus, criticizing Mr. Obama's economic leadership. And Americans for Job Security, another conservative super-PAC, is also going up with a new Pennsylvania ad campaign.
To be sure, Restore Our Future has been making some of the more long-shot bets in recent weeks. It continues to have a strong presence on the air in Michigan, which has been strongly leaning toward Mr. Obama in many recent polls. But the group also placed what ended up being a smart -- and seemingly long-shot -- bet on Wisconsin earlier this fall when few others were willing to devote resources there.
Now many polls show Wisconsin, home of the Republican vice-presidential nominee Paul D. Ryan, to be competitive.
The latest poll from The Philadelphia Inquirer, which was published over the weekend, showed that the president's lead in Pennsylvania had narrowed to 6 points from 8 points since the beginning of October.
Jim Messina, the president's campaign manager, said Monday that Mr. Obama's team will also start advertising in Pennsylvania, but insisted Democrats are in no danger of losing the state.
"We are going to go up as well," Mr. Messina said, responding to news that the Romney super-PAC would be advertising there. "We have the resources to match them and we are going to do that."
Mr. Messina said that the Romney campaign was "not close in Pennsylvania," but added that "we aren't taking anything for granted."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%) Romney, Mitt; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Restore Our Future; Pennsylvania; Ad Watch; Elections

ORGANIZATION: Restore Our Future

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); PAUL RYAN (79%); JIM MESSINA (77%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1229 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: On Romney, Obama and U.S. Investments in Science

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A look at Mitt Romney's plan for deep cuts in government investments in science. 

 BODY:
During the second presidential debate, I had to complain via Twitter when, after President Obama spoke of the importance of sustaining innovation through federal funding of science, Romney offered an odd overheated mantra:
Government does not create jobs. Government does not create jobs.
Setting aside the obvious reality that government does create jobs directly through investment in everything from armies to highways (there's a separate discussion to be had about the economic merits of this), there's a deeper response to Romney:
The root driver of many innovations that now underpin American economic activity is basic inquiry on the frontiers of science and technology -- much of which is not paid for by the private sector because there's no quick return on such investments. Disinvestment there, and in fostering scientific literacy more generally, is bound to erode the capacity for ingenuity in this country just when it's needed most.
This point is made fluently today in an Op-Ed contribution to The Times by Neal F. Lane, a professor of physics and astronomy at Rice University who previously headed the National Science Foundation and was science adviser to President Bill Clinton. Here's a core passage, but the rest is well worth reading and forwarding:
Scientific knowledge and new technologies are the building blocks for long-term economic growth - "the key to a 21st-century economy," as President Obama said in the final debate.
So it is astonishing that Mr. Romney talks about economic growth while planning deep cuts in investment in science, technology and education. They are among the discretionary items for which spending could be cut 22 percent or more under the Republican budget plan, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.
According to the American Association for the Advancement of Science [ relevant link ], the plan, which Mr. Romney has endorsed, could cut overall nondefense science, engineering, biomedical and technology research by a quarter over the next decade, and energy research by two-thirds.
Mr. Romney seems to have lost sight of the critical role of research investments not only in developing new medicines and cleaner energy sources but also in creating higher-skilled jobs.
Read the rest here.
My recent Twitter post on a Nature editorial comes to mind:
A vote for Obama is a vote for science, says journal @Nature http://t.co/k2rzKwMU
- Andy Revkin (@Revkin)26 Oct 12
Of course, Obama has barely been able to tweak federal science budgets beyond the one-time boost in the stimulus legislation, so the issues go far deeper than presidential politics. Here, once again, is the dribble of federal money for basic research and development work on energy frontiers (yes, I have mantras, too): 

        
One Reason for Debate Climate Silence
        
Obama and Romney, Oil and Science
        
What's the Best Climate Question to Debate?
        
Debating the Facts on 'Green Energy'
        
Why a Blog, and Why This Blog?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ENERGY RESEARCH (85%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); PHYSICS (73%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (66%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (61%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (60%); DIVESTITURES (54%) American Assn for the Advancement of Science; Center on Budget and Policy Priorities; Labor and Jobs; Lane, Neal; Obama, Barack; Presidential Election of 2012; Romney, Mitt; Science and Technology; United States Economy; national; politics; science; technology

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (84%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (84%); RICE UNIVERSITY (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%) American Assn for the Advancement of Science; Center on Budget and Policy Priorities

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Lane, Neal; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1230 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: October 29, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: A New Bank Lets You Choose Charity for Rewards

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: AbleBanking lets customers choose a charity to receive annual donations from the bank, based on an account's balance. 

 BODY:
A new online bank is hoping that better-than-average savings rates, and the lure of charitable giving, will attract new deposits.
The bank, ableBanking, is offering those who open a new account a donation of $25 to the charity of the customer's choice - any 501c(3) organization will do. Then, each year on the anniversary of the account's opening, the bank will donate the equivalent of 0.25 percent annual percentage yield (25 basis points) of the account's average balance to that charity.
The bank's money market savings account, for instance, is currently paying a 0.96 percent annual percentage yield. So if an account has an average balance of $10,000, at the end of the first year the customer will have earned $96 in interest, and the bank will donate another $25 to the charity, for a total of $50 donated. (A minimum deposit of $1,000 is necessary to open an eligible account).
So why not just find an account paying an extra 25 basis points over ableBanking's offerings, and then make a charitable donation yourself?
AbleBanking's founders say that is not easy to do, because its savings rates are competitive with those offered by other, similar banks, based on rates listed at Bankrate.com. And the idea here is to encourage group efforts to maximize the amount of money donated to a cause. For instance, supporters of a specific charity - say, a local food bank, or even a Little League baseball team - could all agree to open accounts and direct the donations to that recipient. If 10 people opened accounts and selected the food bank, that would be at least $250 going to the charity.
"The attractiveness is the power of collective giving," said Richard Wayne, the bank's co-founder and chief executive.
The bank's interest rates are not "teaser" rates (although they are subject to change, as are any bank's rates), nor is the charitable donation a temporary offer, he said. "The very heart of the product is the charitable component," he said.
The money for donation to charity comes in lieu of expensive marketing, the founders said. AbleBanking is focusing its efforts mostly online, forgoing expensive options like billboards and television ads.
When customers create accounts, they can select their charities in several ways. They can choose one of ableBanking's partner charities, listed on the Web site; these are based in Boston, since the site began as a pilot program there. They can also search for charities in their communities by ZIP code or search a list of national charities.
AbleBanking is a division of Northeast Bank, a community bank based in Lewiston, Me., with 10 branches. The bank's parent, Northeast Bancorp, is publicly traded (Nasdaq: NBN). While ableBanking has no brick-and-mortar branches, it does have customer service available seven days a week through Northeast Bank's call center in Maine.
The bank isn't aiming to replace your traditional checking account; it's meant just for savings, says Heather Campion, the bank's chief administrative officer. But as with other direct banks, regular deposits can be set up from a checking account into ableBanking.
What do you think of ableBanking's concept? Would you open an account there to help a charity?

        
Call It an Uncertainty Fund, Not an Emergency Fund
        
Increasing Savings With Promotional C.D. Rates
        
Visualizing the Impact of C.D. Laddering
        
Free Advice From Financial Planners in October
        
Where Have You Parked Your Short-Term Savings?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (91%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNET BANKING (89%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); COMMUNITY BANKS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); YOUTH SPORTS (64%); BASEBALL (64%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); WEB SITES (60%) Savings Accounts; Banking and Financial Institutions; Philanthropy; Northeast Bancorp

COMPANY: NORTHEAST BANCORP INC (80%)

ORGANIZATION: Northeast Bancorp

TICKER: NBN (NASDAQ) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2012



1231 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths PETRAKIS, EVANGELINE

 BODY:
PETRAKIS--Evangeline, died on October 27, 2012 at the age 83. She was born on August 2, 1929 in Hoboken, NJ but moved to NYC at the age of four and spent the rest of her life as a New Yorker where she enjoyed the arts, opera at The Met and especially the theatre. She graduated from Brooklyn College in 1952 and began a career that became far more varied than she had anticipated. 
For the most part she worked on magazines when she was hired as an editorial assistant to the managing editor at Good Housekeeping in 1963. In 1972 she became Administrative Assistant to the Editor and remained in that position until 1977 when she accepted a position as Assistant Editor at Seventeen Magazine. She left the magazine field completely in 1981. From 1990 until her retirement in 2006 she worked as a labor service representative with the New York State Department of Labor, adjudicating separation issues for unemployment insurance. For several years until her illness, she volunteered with a great satisfaction with Recording for the Blind and Dyslexic. She is survived by her nieces and nephews: Barbara Kostakis. Debra Amendolia, Richard Poulos, Elie and Feridon Gharib and D. Peter Petrakis. She survived as well by her two grandnephews: Jason Amendolia and George Kostakis. Visiting: Wednesday 3-7 at the Frank A. Patti and Kenneth Mikatarian Funeral Home, 327 Main Street, Fort Lee. All are asked to assemble at St. John the Theologian Greek Orthodox Cathedral, East Clinton Ave. Tenafly Thursday at 10:30am. For condolences, directions, or information call (201)944-0100 or www.frankpatti.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); RELIGION (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (53%)

COMPANY: SEVENTEEN MAGAZINE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: RECORDING FOR THE BLIND (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1232 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Time to Get Tough on Iraq

BYLINE: By NUSSAIBAH YOUNIS. 
Nussaibah Younis is an International Security Program Fellow at Harvard Kennedy School's Belfer Center specializing in contemporary Iraqi foreign policy.

 BODY:
Cambridge, Mass.
THE next president of the United States must fundamentally reassess America's broken relationship with Iraq.
Under two American presidents now, the regime of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki has operated in an atmosphere of immunity while the United States government focused on pacifying Iraq and finding its way to leave. Fearful of how criticisms of Iraq reflect on American policy, and now resolutely opposing any re-entanglement in Iraqi affairs, Washington's approach has been simply to look the other way while Iraq runs roughshod over America's strategic interests in the region.
The current clash of interests is over Syria. It is both right and in the interests of the United States that Bashar al-Assad's brutal reign there comes to an end. And at the very least, the United States should be able to prevent its own allies from aiding the transfer of arms to the Assad regime. 
An intelligence report cited by Reuters last month said that Iraq has been allowing Iran to funnel ''personnel and tens of tons of weapons'' through Iraqi airspace and into Syria ''on almost a daily basis.'' And according to The New York Times, buses carrying pilgrims to a Shiite shrine in Syria are reported to have also carried weapons, supplies and fighters to aid the Assad regime.
Of course the Obama administration is beseeching Iraq to give up this practice, but the response should have been ferocious. There ought to have been an unequivocal condemnation of Iraq's behavior and a demand for the Iraqis to desist immediately or to face the loss of their country's friendship with the United States. That would include losing the $1.7 billion of American aid now destined for Iraq and an end to arms dealings with the United States.
By enabling the rearming of the Assad regime, the Maliki government is responsible for prolonging a conflict that has already exacted a devastating human toll, destabilized Lebanon and is threatening to draw in Turkey and Jordan.
Iraq could have helped more. The pressure Iran has sustained over its nuclear program is destabilizing its economy, and Iran cannot afford to alienate its next-door neighbor. So if Iraq had seriously objected to such uses of its airspace, it is difficult to imagine that Iran would not have complied. And although signs of rising Iranian influence in Iraqi politics were evident almost immediately after the fall of Saddam Hussein, pan-Shiite solidarity is not the only thought that animates the country. Iraqi nationalism is there too, often expressing itself in virulent anti-Iranian rhetoric. Mr. Maliki's government may be happy to play the sectarian card when it suits him, but he is ultimately driven by a single-minded commitment to ensuring the survival of his own regime.
With that in mind, Mr. Maliki is not making an irrational choice in allowing assistance for the Assad regime next door. He is supporting an Iranian regime that brokered his own return to power, while also guarding against the possibility that the rise of a Sunni government in Syria could reignite the Iraqi civil war. So it is up to the United States to change Mr. Maliki's calculations to bring them in line with American interests.
To do that, the next American president needs to increase the costs to Iraq of pursuing its current activities. He can, and should, threaten imminent financial sanction and public humiliation of the Maliki government.
Even apart from the Syrian crisis, the United States should be getting tough on the Maliki regime to prevent Iraq's descent into authoritarianism. Although Prime Minister Maliki's first term had its successes, including the ''Charge of the Knights'' attack against Shiite militias in Basra in 2008, Prime Minister Maliki has become increasingly consumed by his own dictatorial ambitions. And a number of his actions have heightened sectarian tensions in Iraq. He cut a deal with the extremist Shiite party led by Moktada al-Sadr. He reneged on a promise to meaningfully include the Sunni-dominated Iraqiya list in government. He presided over what's being seen as a witch hunt against leading Sunni politicians, culminating in the sentencing to death in absentia of Iraq's vice president, Tariq al-Hashemi.
In addition, Mr. Maliki's government is plagued by incompetence, corruption and a contempt for human rights; ordinary citizens are fast losing confidence in the power of the democratic system. Mr. Maliki has further undermined Iraq's independent institutions, such as the electoral commission and the Iraqi central bank, by bringing them under his direct custodianship. And, most dangerously of all, he is concentrating power over Iraq's entire security apparatus in his hands by refusing to appoint permanent ministers to lead the Ministry of Defense, Ministry of the Interior and National Security Council.
Mr. Maliki is, in short, presiding over a disintegration of Iraq's representative political system, and the United States is doing nothing about it. In 2011, in his speech marking the end of the Iraq War, President Obama promised to ''help Iraqis strengthen institutions that are just, representative and accountable.'' The United States only stands to gain by honoring that promise, and it has many options at its disposal that do not require an extensive re-entanglement in Iraqi affairs. The United States has the power to discredit the Maliki regime on the world stage. In addition to restricting aid, it could bolster its support for legitimate Iraqi opposition parties.
By whatever methods, the next American president must start holding Prime Minister Maliki's government to account for its appalling abuse of power inside Iraq and for its morally bankrupt role in enabling the rearming of Bashar al-Assad next door.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ARMS TRADE (75%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (61%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (61%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (91%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SYRIA (93%); JORDAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1233 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Calendar Says October; Retailers Say It's Christmas

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
COME the hell of political ads or the high water of Hurricane Sandy, many retailers still plan to begin their Christmas shopping campaigns this week.
The idea that holiday marketing efforts would get under way in earnest before Thanksgiving was once startling. But in recent years, ''Christmas creep'' has become standard operating procedure, leading to jokes like Stephen Colbert's last week on Twitter: ''Halloween is right around the corner. You can tell because all the stores are decked out for Christmas.''
One company, which specializes in online coupons, is spoofing the phenomenon. RetailMeNot, a Web site operated by WhaleShark Media, is running a campaign saluting ''OctoNovemCember,'' which features a hybrid holiday character called Pumpkin-Headed Turkey Claus that has its own Twitter feed. 
The uncertain economy has been a major reason that holiday ads are arriving early the last several years. Retailers sought to get cash registers ringing as soon as they could, regardless of tradition. As it turned out, many consumers welcomed a longer Christmas shopping season, seeing the sales prices as a way to help stretch their gift budgets.
So even as surveys suggest consumers are growing more confident about the economy, campaigns for this holiday season are still playing up bargains. For instance, Target, which seems to be the first big retailer to have started running Christmas commercials, is concluding them with this promise on-screen: ''Dream big. Save bigger.'' The spots, which began appearing three weeks ago, are by 72andSunny in Los Angeles, part of MDC Partners.
Toys ''R'' Us, which started its holiday campaign on Sunday, also is being aggressive on sales. The 2012 edition of its holiday catalog, called the Great Big Toys ''R'' Us Book, begins with two pages of coupons with discounts as high as $60 off certain Power Wheels toys.
''We're very optimistic about the holiday,'' said Peter Reiner, senior vice president for marketing at Toys ''R'' Us.
''We're concentrating on what makes us special, letting consumers know there is a difference,'' he added, ''and if you want to make sure you get the right toy, there's really only one place to go.''
That is underlined by the theme of the 2012 campaign: ''Why shop anywhere else for toys? Why?''
In commercials by the Chicago agency the Escape Pod, children play the parts of television news reporters and anchors at a make-believe station with the call letters TRU, delivering pitches like ''All the toys, all the time'' in newscast style.
In one spot, which will run in social media like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, the youngsters speak lines that sound familiar: They are from the lyrics to the longtime Toys ''R'' Us jingle.
''For kids, the new toys are the biggest news of the year,'' said Vinny Warren, creative director at the Escape Pod, ''so we present it as news.''
''The idea is to get on with the show and tell them what Toys 'R' Us has,'' he added. ''We're delivering the offers in a way that's direct and interruptive but, hopefully, charming.''
Wayfair, which sells products like furniture and home accessories online, said it would start its Christmas campaign on Thursday. A humorous television commercial, created internally, is focused on the variety of merchandise at wayfair.com, then concludes with the words ''Holiday supersale starts now, up to 60 percent off.''
''Consumers care about selection and value,'' said Niraj Shah, chief executive at Wayfair. ''We think this will catch their attention and work for us.''
Although ''it's a little hard to say'' if customer attitudes about the economy are improving, ''we've been consistently growing,'' he added. ''It seems we're on track for a really good holiday season.''
Not all Christmas campaigns will encourage bargain hunters. For example, an effort for Dell by Y&R New York is more high-minded, carrying the theme ''Inspired gifting.''
In a television commercial, a love-struck boy named Billy uses Dell products to create a gift for an astronomy-minded girl named Charlotte. And in a print ad, a young photography fan named Maxine gets ''the perfect gift,'' a Dell Inspiron 14z Ultrabook with photo-editing software.
''Our customers want holiday shopping simplified, but they also want to give gifts that will be remembered and inspire loved ones,'' said Fara Howard, executive director for North American consumer and small-office marketing at Dell.
An element of the ''Inspired gifting'' campaign that is to begin on Saturday, created by the Buzz Marketing Group in Philadelphia, is centered on the ''#Inspire 100,'' whom Dell describes as 100 ''influencers'' in fields like education, philanthropy and entrepreneurship. They include the actor Edward Norton; Adam Braun, the founder of Pencils of Promise; and the fashion designer Rachel Roy.
''It is all about creating a conversation with consumers, not just pushing a deal or discount,'' said Tina Wells, chief executive at Buzz Marketing.
And the Sears division of Sears Holdings plans to start running a commercial on Thursday that is devoted to the depth of selection of home appliances at its stores rather than sale prices.
The humorous spot, by McGarryBowen, is styled like a movie trailer for a romantic comedy and promotes what the retailer calls ''the top 10 advantage.'' An announcer declares, ''Only Sears carries them all,'' referring to the 10 leading appliance brands.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RetailMeNot is already offering online coupons for Christmas in its advertising. Toys ''R'' Us ads have children producing their own TV news show. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (93%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); RETAIL COUPONS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); HALLOWEEN (77%); BUDGETS (76%); HURRICANE SANDY (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%)

COMPANY: MDC PARTNERS INC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (54%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (54%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: STEPHEN COLBERT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1234 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: An Overcrowded School No One Wants to Leave

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS; Randy Leonard contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As the day draws to a close at Public School 321, the school that launched a thousand strollers toward Park Slope, Brooklyn, the grown-ups begin to assemble outside. Bus drivers pull their long yellow ferries up out front. Parents and caretakers hover near doorways and perch on benches.
Some adults wait in cars, ready to shuttle their little students to homes far away, even far outside the school's prescribed zone.
They are beneficiaries of a longstanding regulation in New York City that says that once children are registered at a public school, they can remain until they graduate, regardless of where in the city they live after registration day. 
But Park Slope has seen a lot of development in recent years, especially in family-size apartments, and the Education Department is pushing forward a plan to redraw several zones in the area and add a new school, in an effort to keep overcrowded institutions from becoming even more tightly packed. If the plan is approved, the zone devoted to P.S. 321 will shrink by the equivalent of about 10 city blocks. The catchment area for another crowded and popular Park Slope school, P.S. 107, will be slimmer by about five blocks.
Suddenly, this longstanding regulation for children who move has slid directly into the eye of a fraught fight. Many parents on blocks facing rezoning, who bought their homes expressly so their children could attend a particular school, are furious and panicked. And there is a sense among many of them, who pile into community meetings and online forums, that families who touch down in the neighborhood just long enough to register their children, sometimes for just a year or less, may be following the letter of the regulation but are not following its intent.
''They're safe,'' said Leslie Uretsky, a parent of two young children who are being zoned out of P.S. 321 and into a new school. ''My daughters would be an experiment.''
School officials say it is primarily the new construction that is creating the untenable trend of overcrowding, not the children who attend P.S. 321 but live far away. Nonetheless, parents living in the zone say that the children who live elsewhere are taking up precious seats, and that families who come to the area without plans to stay long are taking advantage of the rules.
Though the circumstances surrounding those families who do not stay vary widely, more often than not it was the school that drew the parents in, and it is economics that forces them out.
When it was time for Stefan Fredrick's daughter to start school, he and his family moved from their rental in Park Slope, just outside the P.S. 321 zone, to another rental within the zone. The apartment was not ideal.
''It cost a fortune,'' Mr. Fredrick said, ''and to spend that and having mice running around wasn't great.''
After years of looking for a home to buy, and putting down a few bids on apartments in the P.S. 321 zone, Mr. Fredrick said his family found a place in Gowanus, just a few blocks away from the school but outside its zone. So they took it.
''It was not our intention to zip in and zip out,'' he said. ''We would have stayed if we could have.''
Francesca Pope, who was retrieving two of her four children from P.S. 321 last week in a gray minivan, said it was economics that forced her family, as well, to move out. Ms. Pope grew up in Park Slope, in the house where her father was raised, she said, but when she was pregnant with her third son, the apartment where she and her husband were living was sold. The apartments they could afford in the area were untenable for a family with more than two children.
''Even our bed wouldn't fit in some of those places,'' she said.
They moved to Flatbush, but she did not want to take her children out of the school they knew. Ms. Pope has two sons there now -- if a school has the room, siblings of students already in the school can enroll, even if they do not live in that zone -- and she continues to volunteer at coat drives, class trips and fund-raisers.
''Families are really truly invested in the school, even if they leave the neighborhood,'' Ms. Pope said. ''It's a source of stability.''
The relocation rule, which has been on the books for at least two decades, provides children with an important modicum of stability, even if their families move around, educators say.
''Switching schools disrupts education,'' said Carrie Marlin, a planning official at the Education Department. ''We think all students deserve continuity.''
None of that, however, is of great comfort to the families being squeezed out of the zone, who say they are being blindsided, with little warning and less opportunity to be heard. The plan will be put to a vote in the coming weeks by the district's Community Education Council, which controls rezoning; if passed, it will go into effect for the next school year.
At a community meeting this month, Elizabeth Phillips, the principal of P.S. 321, said that while the majority of students who live outside of the zone lived within it at some point, there were those who never did.
''Are there people who lie about their address? Of course,'' she said before a roomful of jittery parents. ''We check as much as we can. We do home visits. But there is a limit.''
One official said schools sometimes had success rooting out parents who were lying about their address simply by asking for more documentation when they went in to register, which led some parents to stop trying.
Another factor in this very expensive neighborhood is property values. Ruthanne Pigott, president and owner of Brenton Realty, a local brokerage, said there was a premium built into prices of apartments in the P.S. 321 zone. And though prices in the neighborhood are extremely high even outside the zone, many families are anxious about the prospect of losing that premium.
Jean-Francois Collard, a parent in the neighborhood that is being redrawn out of that zone, said he and his wife planned to sell their apartment to pay his children's college tuition; now he fears that they could end up $100,000 short.
One thing most of the neighborhood's parents can agree on is that there is no perfect solution to P.S. 321's crowding problem. Another is that when it comes to children, a primal rule applies. Said Katie Keating, a P.S. 321 parent: ''You can't really fault a parent for trying to get their kid the best situation they can.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Children departed Public School 321 in Park Slope, Brooklyn, last week. Its geographic zone is being redrawn because of crowding. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); ZONING (89%); FAMILY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CITY LIFE (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); APPROVALS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1235 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: The Upside Of Opportunism

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Let's try to imagine what the world would look like if President Obama is re-elected.
Washington over the next four years would probably look much as it has over the last two: Obama running the White House, Republicans controlling the House and Democrats managing the Senate. We'd have had a long slog of an election before a change-hungry electorate, and we'd end up with pretty much the same cast of characters as before.
Obama would probably try to enact the agenda he laid out most clearly in his recent interview with The Des Moines Register: 
Obama said he would try to recreate the Obama-Boehner budget deal of two summers ago, with $2.50 of spending cuts for every $1 in tax increases. Then he'd try immigration reform. Then he'd cut corporate tax rates as part of corporate reform. Then he'd ''weed out'' unnecessary regulations. All the while, he would implement Obamacare and increase funds for infrastructure. This is a moderate and sensible agenda.
The first order of business would be the budget deal, averting the so-called fiscal cliff. Obama would first go to Republicans in the Senate and say, ''Look, we're stuck with each other. Let's cut a deal for the sake of the country.'' He would easily find 10 Republican senators willing to go along with a version of a Grand Bargain.
Then Obama would go to the House. He'd ask Eric Cantor, the majority leader, if there were votes for such a deal. The answer would probably be no. Republican House members still have more to fear from a primary challenge from the right than from a general election challenge from the left. Obama is tremendously unpopular in their districts. By running such a negative presidential campaign, Obama has won no mandate for a Grand Bargain. Obama himself is not going to suddenly turn into a master legislative craftsman on the order of Lyndon Johnson.
There'd probably be a barrage of recriminations from all sides. The left and right would be consumed with ire and accusations. Legislators would work out some set of fudges and gimmicks to kick the fiscal can down the road.
The ensuing bitterness would doom any hopes for bipartisan immigration reform. The rest of the Obama second term would be about reasonably small things: some new infrastructure programs; more math and science teachers; implementing Obamacare; mounting debt; a president increasingly turning to foreign affairs in search of legacy projects.
If you're a liberal Democratic, this is an acceptable outcome. Your party spent 80 years building the current welfare state. This outcome extends it.
Now let's try to imagine the world if Mitt Romney were to win. Republicans would begin with the premise that the status quo is unsustainable. The mounting debt is ruinous. The byzantine tax and regulatory regimes are stifling innovation and growth.
Republicans would like to take the reform agenda that Republican governors have pursued in places like Indiana and take it to the national level: structural entitlement reform; fundamental tax reform. These reforms wouldn't make government unrecognizable (we'd probably end up spending 21 percent of G.D.P. in Washington instead of about 24 percent), but they do represent a substantial shift to the right.
At the same time, Romney would probably be faced with a Democratic Senate. He would also observe the core lesson of this campaign: conservatism loses; moderation wins. Romney's prospects began to look decent only when he shifted to the center. A President Romney would look at the way Tea Party extremism had cost the G.O.P. Senate seats in Delaware and Nevada -- and possibly Missouri and Indiana.
To get re-elected in a country with a rising minority population and a shrinking Republican coalition, Romney's shape-shifting nature would induce him to govern as a center-right moderate. To get his tax and entitlement reforms through the Democratic Senate, Romney would have to make some serious concessions: increase taxes on the rich as part of an overall reform; abandon the most draconian spending cuts in Paul Ryan's budget; reduce the size of his lavish tax-cut promises.
As President Romney made these concessions, conservatives would be in uproar. Talk-radio hosts would be the ones accusing him of Romneysia, forgetting all the promises he made in the primary season. There'd probably be a primary challenge from the right in 2016.
But Republicans in Congress would probably go along. They wouldn't want to destroy a Republican president. Romney would champion enough conservative reforms to allow some Republicans to justify their votes.
The bottom line is this: If Obama wins, we'll probably get small-bore stasis; if Romney wins, we're more likely to get bipartisan reform. Romney is more of a flexible flip-flopper than Obama. He has more influence over the most intransigent element in the Washington equation House Republicans. He's more likely to get big stuff done.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); IMMIGRATION (73%); TAX LAW (73%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (60%); CORPORATE TAX (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1236 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Behind an Estimated $30 Trillion Drain on Banks, a Lot of Hypotheticals

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

 BODY:
Imagine a situation in which the world's banks have to find as much as $30 trillion to comply with just one new regulation. That might be something of a stretch, given that the gross domestic product of the United States is only $15.8 trillion, and the world's 10 largest banks hold only $25 trillion of assets.
Yet a banking industry group recently looked into a new rule and sketched out a possibility in which banks were forced to come up with as much as $30 trillion in cash. 
The potential cash call is outlined in a letter the International Swaps and Derivatives Association sent in September to regulators. It is the latest eye-popping number that lobbying firms and banks have produced to support their view that many new regulations will be enormously expensive - and the big, scary numbers seem to be gaining traction.
Some of the concern may be warranted, especially in Europe, where certain stressed banks have had trouble borrowing regular amounts in the markets. But a deeper look at the industry association's $30 trillion figure suggests that many of the worries might be overdone.
The gargantuan sum relates to the market for derivatives, which are financial contracts that banks and investors use to bet on interest rates, stock prices, creditworthiness of corporations and the like.
Derivatives played a central role in the 2008 financial crisis. The market for many contracts was opaque, which stoked panic when certain players started to falter.
Before the financial crisis, big participants like large Wall Street banks were often able to avoid following certain rules intended to make the market safer. One of those practices involves something called initial margin. This is the cash or easy-to-sell assets that parties have to set aside at the outset of a derivatives trade. If one side can't pay up, the other side can make a claim on the initial margin.
Now, regulators want to tighten up the margin rules. To do so, they are introducing regulations aimed at pushing derivatives trades through entities called central clearinghouses. These organizations effectively agree to pay out if one side of the original trade cannot pay.
Because of that pledge, clearinghouses have to make sure they can pay out if one party defaults. One way they do this is to demand margin from the parties that trade through them.
But a large number of derivatives trades won't necessarily go through clearinghouses, even after the overhaul is in place. Such trades will still be done directly between two financial firms.
Regulators have proposed rules that force firms to supply initial margin on these so-called bilateral trades, too. These rules, which won't apply to pre-existing trades, may not come into effect until late 2013 in the United States.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association and many others want to stop or water down those margin rules on bilateral trades. In its paper, the association argued against initial margin rules, saying they were "likely to lead to a significant liquidity drain on the market, estimated to be in the region of $15.7 trillion to $29.9 trillion." In other words, it believes there is a possibility that the rule could cost $30 trillion.
So, how likely is such a drain? A clue can be found in the $14 trillion range in the association's estimates.
Under its lower estimate, the industry group assumes that many banks calculate their derivatives exposures in an advantageous manner sanctioned by the proposed regulations. Specifically, the rules allow banks to offset certain trades with each other. This has the effect of reducing a bank's overall derivatives exposure for the purposes of calculating margin.
The upshot: Less margin is needed. At one stage in its analysis, the derivatives association says using this approach might reduce by half the overall amount of derivatives in the calculation.
But why wouldn't the reduction be far more than $14 trillion, or roughly 50 percent? After all, net exposure can be reduced quite sharply by using the offsetting method. For instance, a bank may have $50 billion on trades betting that stocks go up and $49 billion on trades betting stocks go down, leading to a $1 billion net exposure for the bank.
Steven Kennedy, a spokesman for the association, says it chose 50 percent based partly on its estimates of how many firms might have the required technology to carry out offsetting. In essence, the numbers involve a lot of hypothetical assumptions.
This weakness applies to other, lower-margin estimates from opponents of the new rules.
Last year, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, a federal bank regulator, estimated that initial margin rules could lead to a $2 trillion burden for banks, a smaller but still alarming figure. The number was cited in several letters and studies from lawyers and lobbyists arguing against the margin rule. The comptroller listed three factors that might lead to banks posting less than $2 trillion. But, the study added, "at present, we are unable to estimate the mitigating effects of these three factors."
Bryan Hubbard, a spokesman for the comptroller, said the paper reflected the comptroller's best analysis at the time. He added, "The O.C.C. is likely to update the analysis when a final rule is issued."
Other opponents of initial margin rules have been similarly vague when gauging factors that might reduce the burden. JPMorgan Chase sent a letter last year to regulators criticizing the initial margin rule, saying it might need to collect $1.4 trillion from its trading partners if it did not use the offsetting approach. The letter did say an offsetting approach might "produce smaller initial margin amounts." Still, it didn't specify how much smaller.
The initial-margin rules may prompt some firms to stop doing bilateral derivatives trades. Some financial companies have even started down that path.
In the face of new margin rules, Berkshire Hathaway said this year that it would not be entering any big new derivatives bets. "We shun contracts of any type that could require the instant posting of collateral," Warren E. Buffett, the company's chief executive, wrote in its latest annual report.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Warren E. Buffett 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); LOBBYING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); INTEREST RATES (51%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1237 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Disparities: Lifesaving CPR Varies by Neighborhood

BYLINE: By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

 BODY:
Whether you survive a heart attack may depend on where you live.
New research shows that people who experience cardiac arrest are half as likely to get lifesaving cardiopulmonary resuscitation from a bystander in low-income, predominantly black neighborhoods than in richer, predominantly white areas. Cardiac arrest, in which the heart stops pumping blood effectively, is typically caused by a heart attack or other cardiovascular problem. 
A similar trend was seen in poor white and Latino neighborhoods. In low-income white neighborhoods, for example, cardiac arrest victims were 35 percent less likely to receive CPR than those in higher-income areas.
The study, published in The New England Journal of Medicine, looked at more than 14,000 cases of cardiac arrest in 29 cities around the country over a four-year period. About a quarter of those patients received CPR from a bystander, and for those who did, the odds of making it to a hospital and surviving were double.
The findings suggest that emergency medical groups looking to increase survival rates from sudden cardiac arrest, a leading killer of Americans, may have the greatest effect by focusing on specific neighborhoods.
"Hopefully this paper isn't just going to add to the literature about documenting disparities, but will give communities a road map about how to actually address the problem," said Dr. Comilla Sasson, the lead author and an assistant professor in the emergency medicine department at the University of Colorado, Denver.
She speculated that economic and social factors were at the core of the problem. In poorer neighborhoods, a bystander may be more likely to suspect that a person collapsed on a sidewalk is intoxicated or a potential threat. And CPR classes can be expensive, costing up to $250.
"If you're making less than $20,000 a year and you have to choose between groceries and a CPR class," Dr. Sasson said, "I think it's pretty obvious what you'd choose."
In some parts of the country, the economic divide was so stark that CPR differences could be mapped out block by block. In Denver, Dr. Sasson and her colleagues found one street where not a single person who had gone into cardiac arrest in the past three years had received CPR. But a block away, where incomes were higher, 40 percent of people who had experienced cardiac arrest in the same time period had been given CPR by a bystander.
Many emergency medicine experts are now promoting a simpler version of CPR that can replace the old-fashioned CPR taught in many places. The newer version does away with mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and requires only chest compressions, carried out to the beat of the Bee Gees' '70s classic "Stayin' Alive."
"It's simple, it's easy and it's cheap," Dr. Sasson said. "You can learn it in 30 seconds. Push hard, push fast, at about 100 times a minute, to the tune of 'Stayin' Alive.' Basically, I've just trained you how to do hands-only CPR."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); FIRST AID (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); WRITERS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (57%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1238 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Strong Rise in Consumer Spending in September

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Americans increased their spending in September at twice the rate that their income grew, a sign of confidence in the economy. Still, consumers made up the difference by saving less for a third consecutive month, a troubling trend. 
The Commerce Department said Monday that consumer spending increased 0.8 percent in September from August. That came after a 0.5 percent gain in August and was the best showing since February.
Personal income rose 0.4 percent, an improvement from a slight 0.1 percent gain in August and the best gain since March. But after adjusting for inflation and taxes, income was flat in September.
That came after a 0.3 percent decline in August.
Consumer spending is important because it drives nearly 70 percent of economic activity.
A pickup in consumer spending helped lift economic growth in the July-September quarter, to a 2 percent annual rate. While that is faster than the 1.3 percent rate in the April-June period, it's still too weak to create enough jobs to rapidly lower the unemployment rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); JOB CREATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1239 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: The Jews of Cuyahoga County

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
CLEVELAND, OHIO -- Things are getting ugly among the Jews of Cuyahoga County, with family splits and dinner invitations declined. ''I have never seen the divisions this acute,'' said James Ratner, an executive of the Forest City real estate group.
The pressure of a very tight presidential race whose outcome Ohio could well decide has been compounded by the Senate candidacy of a conservative Jewish Republican, Josh Mandel, who has divided loyalties among the 80,000 Jews of Greater Cleveland. 
An advertisement in the Cleveland Jewish News this week, paid for by a group called Jews for Israel 2012, asked this question: ''Are you willing to bet the life of the Jewish people on this president?'' It questioned Barack Obama's willingness to defend an Israel ''threatened by nuclear annihilation.''
Automated calls pour into Jewish households from John Bolton, the hawkish former U.N. ambassador, in which he warns that a vote for Romney is needed to save Israel from an Iranian bomb and Islamist extremists.
Mandel, a 35-year-old ex-Marine who has raised more than $20 million through conservative backers, has appalled Ohio's socially progressive Jews -- who are still the clear majority -- with an anti-abortion stance that has included calling the Indiana Senate nominee Richard Mourdock a ''class act'' after Mourdock said pregnancy resulting from rape was ''something that God intended to happen'' and life was always ''a gift from God.''
Oy vey. Does all this matter? Yes it does. It is that close in the Buckeye State. Ohio, with its 18 electoral votes, is about tied, according to most polls. No Republican has won the White House without carrying Ohio. This is the swing state most likely to swing things. Conservative-backed billboards screaming ''Voter fraud is a felony'' have prompted the countermessage that, ''Voting is a right, not a crime.'' Republican intimidation meets Democratic determination.
Obama needs to win big in Cuyahoga County, which includes the strongly Democratic inner city of Cleveland, to carry the state. That is what he did in 2008, gaining 68.5 percent of the vote and winning by a margin of nearly 250,000 votes -- enough to secure victory by just over 200,000 votes in Ohio. The Romney campaign reckons that if it can cut Obama's margin in Cuyahoga to about 175,000 it will take the state.
About 80 percent of Cleveland's Jews are believed to have voted for Obama last time. Robert Goldberg, former chairman of the United Jewish Communities (now The Jewish Federations of North America) and a Romney supporter, said he believed that number would drop to 60 percent this time. ''Jews just don't trust Obama on Israel,'' he told me. ''The president has no sympathy for Israel. His sympathy is for the Muslim world he knew as a child.''
If Goldberg is right about a shift, that would be significant. He argues that Obama is anti-business and anti-Israel and believes a faltering economy above all is pushing Jewish voters to change position. (Polls in Israel show Israelis strongly favoring a Romney victory.)
The case I heard in Ohio against Obama on Israel was the usual Republican hodgepodge of insinuations: The president went to Cairo but not Jerusalem, he snubbed Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, he reached out to Muslims but showed no love for Jews. They ignore all the defense and intelligence cooperation that led the Israeli defense minister, Ehud Barak, to say Obama had done ''more than anything that I can remember in the past'' for Israeli security.
Mandel has also been playing the Israel card in pursuit of the Jewish vote, despite the fact his opponent, the Democrat incumbent Sherrod Brown, co-sponsored the United States-Israel Enhanced Security Cooperation Act of 2012, legislation that deepens defense cooperation.
Among those troubled by Mandel's campaign is Austin Ratner, a novelist and the son of James Ratner. Mandel is related by marriage to the Ratner family. Austin Ratner wrote a piece this month in the Jewish Daily Forward arguing that family and tribal Jewish loyalty were misplaced in the political sphere, where reason must prevail.
He quoted his aunt, Deborah Ratner, a major Democratic fund-raiser, telling Mandel at a family gathering: ''I don't want this to be awkward, but you represent everything I've spent my life working against.'' He also said some Democrat relatives ''have supported Mandel's campaign out of family loyalty'' -- a form of loyalty, he suggested, that ''leads deeper into the darkness.''
The Jews of Cleveland are arguing at high volume. They are good at disputation. In this case the argument could change the course of things far beyond Cleveland.
James Ratner sent me an e-mail saying, ''This may well be a case where the noise is obscuring the music.'' Beneath all the shouting, he suggested, Jewish sentiment remains solidly Democratic. ''In a meeting this week of 60 members of a woman's group at Park Synagogue there was absolute unanimity behind Obama. No one was voting for Romney.''
Those Jewish women know exactly what Romney and Mandel represent: an obscurantist and invasive threat to their rights in the name of a God whose wishes these men presume to know.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); REAL ESTATE (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (71%); FELONIES (69%); ELECTION FRAUD (68%); ABORTION (65%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (95%) OHIO, USA (99%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1240 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: A Minimum $10 Billion In Damages Is Estimated

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The insurance industry could be responsible for paying for $5 billion to $10 billion in property and casualty claims from Hurricane Sandy, but it has the resources to make the payouts, industry experts said Monday.
Eqecat, a company that tracks natural disasters and estimates their cost, said it expected the storm's total economic damages to range from $10 billion to $20 billion, which includes damage to homes and cars, and business lost because of the storm. The company said the insurance industry would be responsible for covering $5 billion to $10 billion of that, a smaller amount in part because insurers generally don't cover the flooding of homes and businesses. A federal government insurance program would most likely pick up much of that uncovered cost.
Insurance payouts toward the lower end of the Eqecat estimate would be on par with the $6.4 billion insurers covered in Hurricane Rita in 2005. According to the Insurance Information Institute, the most expensive hurricanes, in inflation-adjusted dollars, were Katrina in 2005, with $47 billion in insured losses; Andrew in 1992, with $23 billion; Ike in 2008, with $13 billion, and Wilma in 2005, at $12 billion, all of it in Florida. 
Robert Hartwig, president of the Insurance Information Institute, said the property and casualty industry had the resources to absorb losses estimated for this storm. Until now, the industry had been having a year of minimal losses from natural disasters.
Eqecat noted that about 20 percent of the United States' population lived in the areas exposed to Hurricane Sandy's impact.
AIR Worldwide, a company that models hurricanes and estimates their damage, said the value of insured properties in New York State's coastal areas was $2.7 trillion. The only state with hurricane exposure that has a higher total property value is Florida, with $2.8 trillion. Texas is a distant third.
Homeowners' insurers with the biggest market share in New York State are State Farm, with 15.5 percent of premiums written; Allstate, with 15.2 percent; and Travelers with 10.9 percent. The figures, provided by SNL Financial, do not take into account reinsurance arrangements, which are typical in the property and casualty business and help spread risks across a larger group.
The largest auto insurers in New York State are Berkshire Hathaway, with 26 percent of the market; Allstate, with 18.1 percent; and State Farm, with 12.5 percent.
Leading commercial insurers in New York include the American International Group and State Farm, which has a large workers' compensation program.
AIR Worldwide's principal scientist, Tim Doggett, warned of possible record-setting storm surges in east-facing bays, such as Long Island Sound, Raritan Bay and the New York City Harbor. Manhattan's sea walls stand five feet above the average sea level, and storm surges up to 11 feet are being predicted.
Standard homeowners' insurance policies do not cover flood damage, nor do commercial policies, although auto insurance often includes coverage for flooding. This means much of Hurricane Sandy's cost is likely to be borne by the National Flood Insurance Program, in which the federal government covers flood claims in communities that have adopted local flood plain management ordinances.
The program paid out $1.3 billion to cover claims in all states affected by Hurricane Irene in 2011. The industry racked up $4.3 billion in losses in that storm.
AIR Worldwide said the biggest unknown was what would happen in the days immediately after landfall; although the winds would slow, the storm was expected to linger in the region and could continue to wreak destruction in Washington, Pennsylvania and New York until as late as Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New York Harbor lapped into Battery Park on Monday. Excluding flood claims, insurers may pay out more than $5 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BURTON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (93%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); DAMAGES (90%); HURRICANES (90%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); WEATHER (90%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (78%); MEDICARE (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); REINSURANCE (78%); FLOOD INSURANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (73%); MARKET SHARE (71%)

COMPANY: STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE CO (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%); ALLSTATE CORP (58%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (83%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%); ALL (NYSE) (58%); BRK.B (NYSE) (51%); BRK.A (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (83%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (51%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1241 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Long Island Envisions Life After the Islanders

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

 BODY:
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -- Once the nonpareil of suburbia, Long Island has been losing jobs and drawing crime. Taxes are among the highest in the country, yet here in Nassau County finances are so bad that a state-appointed committee must oversee them.
Infrastructure in some parts has crumbled to the point where raw sewage has started bubbling up into basements. And now, of course, its winding coastline is under sustained assault from Hurricane Sandy. 
But to some, the worst of the news arrived last week, with the announcement that the professional ice hockey team, the New York Islanders, would be moving to Brooklyn in 2015. Despite the team's chronic losses on the ice and in the bank, the abandonment by the island's lone major league sports franchise for New York City, of all places, carried a special sting.
''It's a big pride thing,'' said Barbara Calame, 52, a medical assistant from East Meadow. ''The Islanders are from Long Island. I think it's terrible that they're moving to Brooklyn. Brooklyn isn't Long Island.''
Indeed, no matter what the geographic literalists might claim, Brooklyn, with its chic cafes, hip-hop royalty and growing international fame, could not seem further from Long Island these days. Just compare the Islanders' old home with its new one.
With its weathered, beige facade and outdated amenities, the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum here in Uniondale lacks the high-tech appeal of the Barclays Center in Brooklyn. Opened 40 years ago, the coliseum marked the height of a golden age. Now it has become emblematic of decline.
The decision last week marked the culmination of a struggle, lasting years, to keep the team here by revamping the arena along with the 77-acre plot of mostly undeveloped land it sits on. Called the Nassau Hub, it was hoped that development would inject some vitality into the region's lethargic economy.
Last year, the owner of the Islanders, Charles B. Wang, submitted a proposal to spend $400 million on a makeover that would have rebuilt the coliseum and added a minor league baseball park and convention space. Voters rejected the plans, fearful of tax increases, and Mr. Wang entertained offers to move the team to other cities.
Other projects have been debated, but most have centered on the Islanders as the principal tenant and main revenue source. Now with the announcement of what Mr. Wang called an ''ironclad'' 25-year lease with the Barclays Center, the county's plans for the area must be rebuilt from scratch.
The Nassau County executive, Edward P. Mangano, appeared to be blindsided by the announcement. He promised to immediately create an economic development team to serve as a ''catalyst'' for new ideas for building up the Hub. ''I believe the depth and experience of our team will allow us to reinvent this strategic acreage quickly,'' he said in a statement.
It is not clear if the move by the Islanders, who play in the National Hockey League, will have any immediate effect on the local economy. Officials have until 2015, when the team's lease runs out, to draw up new plans.
George Maragos, the Nassau County comptroller, said that while he was disappointed in the decision, studies conducted during the 2004-5 N.H.L. lockout indicated that there would be little material effect from the team's exit.
''If we don't have hockey games like now, then the operator substitutes concerts for those dates,'' he said. ''Strictly from an economic point of view, sometimes it is better not to be locked into one team and have the ability to schedule more events that could bring in more attendance at higher ticket prices.''
Kevin S. Law, the president of the Long Island Association and a co-chairman of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's Long Island Regional Economic Development Council, pointed out that most of the jobs provided by the coliseum were low-paying ones. He said that the team's departure could free the county to explore options that would attract new businesses and higher-paying jobs to the area.
But the Islanders offered other intangible benefits beyond revenues, said Kevan Abrahams, the county's Democratic leader.
''It's a great opportunity for us to think out of the box,'' he said in an interview. ''But if you're asking me the question of whether I thought the Islanders were vital to the county's overall ambience in terms of it being positive, I think from that standpoint I don't know how we're going to replace that.''
For many here, the glory days of the Islanders, who won the Stanley Cup four straight years, from 1980 to 1983, have faded. Last season the team finished last in the Atlantic Division and fifth from the bottom in the N.H.L. with 34 wins in 82 games.
And attendance for games has been dropping for years. Last year the team was second to last in attendance, with an average of about 13,000 people a game for the 16,000-seat arena. Reaction to the move has ranged from grief to good riddance.
''Won't affect me in the least,'' said Randy Kamen, 62, the owner of Coliseum Liquors across the Hempstead Turnpike from the Islanders' arena. ''Let them go early, knock the thing down and start developing.''
Still, as with any team, the die-hards are still there. Dee Karl, a Suffolk County resident who writes about the Islanders for the hockey blog HockeyBuzz.com, said she attended most of the team's home games each season. But she said the $25, hour-and-a-half-long train ride to Brooklyn could mean that she will now cover games from her living room.
For others on the far end of the island, she said, it could signal the end of a relationship with the team that has lasted decades.
''My husband always said that if the Islanders move to Brooklyn, they're dead to him,'' Ms. Karl said. ''There are many other fans who feel the same way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A parade celebrating the New York Islanders' 1983 Stanley Cup victory, their fourth straight, in May of that year. About 80,000 people lined the parade route
21 bands marched. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
''Won't affect me in the least,'' said Randy Kamen, 62.
''It's terrible that they're moving to Brooklyn,'' said Barbara Calame, 52. (A17)
 Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum in Uniondale, the home of the Islanders. The 77-acre site is the focus of redevelopment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); COUNTIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); SUBURBS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); WINTER SPORTS (75%); SPORTS (75%); BASEBALL (75%); RELOCATIONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); LAYOFFS (58%); HURRICANE SANDY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (94%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1242 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Friday's Data on Joblessness, Eagerly Awaited by Campaigns, Could Be Delayed by Storm

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Hurricane Sandy might force the Labor Department to delay the release of the monthly report on the nation's unemployment, due Friday morning, the most hotly anticipated piece of economic data to come out before the election. 
The Bureau of Labor Statistics, the data and statistics division of the Labor Department, is scheduled to release the October jobs report at 8:30 a.m. on Friday. But the hurricane has shuttered government offices and closed public transportation in and around Washington, and that might lead the department to delay the release of the report.
''We will assess the situation when the weather emergency is over and notify the press and public of any changes at that time,'' a bureau spokesman, Gary Steinberg, wrote Monday in an e-mail.
Another Labor Department spokesman, Carl Fillichio, said in an e-mail that employees were ''working hard to ensure the timely release of employment data'' at the end of the week. ''It is our intention that Friday will be business as usual regarding the October Employment Situation Report.''
The Labor Department has already completed the monthly surveys of about 60,000 households and 140,000 businesses and government offices that provide the raw data for the jobs report. But bureau specialists need to translate that raw data into the jobs report every month.
Economists do not expect great surprises in October's jobs figures. The unemployment rate is expected to stay about where it is and the slow, steady pace of jobs growth to continue. In September, the unemployment rate dropped to 7.8 percent, the lowest rate since President Obama took office but still elevated because of the recession.
Even the possibility that the report might be delayed prompted online criticism on Monday, with some accusing the bureau of delaying the jobs numbers for President Obama's benefit.
The bureau came under similar criticism after the September employment numbers came out much stronger than many economists expected, with some partisans crying foul and accusing the bureau of cooking the books. ''Labor Dept. says may release latest unemployment figures until after election,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, in a Twitter message. ''Par for course. Why release something might hurt Obama elect?''
Labor Department employees and other experts from across the ideological spectrum dismissed the notion that the government would massage jobs figures for anyone's political benefit. And the department has not said it will delay the jobs numbers until after the election, or if it will need to delay them at all.
If the jobs report ends up getting postponed, which was first reported as a possibility by The Wall Street Journal on Monday, it would be just one more kink that the gigantic hurricane has thrown into the final days of the presidential and Congressional campaigns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); STATISTICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (70%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (68%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1243 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Gas and Oil Futures Rise As Investors Take Cover

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Gasoline and heating oil futures gained on Monday while United States Treasuries also rose, as economic worries over Hurricane Sandy fueled safe-haven buying in thin trading as the powerful storm began to batter the East Coast.
The storm forced Wall Street to close on the anniversary of the 1929 stock market crash. It was the stock market's first weather-related closure in 27 years, and other markets closed early as investors braced for the impact of the hurricane, one of the biggest storms ever to slam the Eastern Seaboard.
In Europe, stocks, led by insurers, fell on expectations that damage related to the storm would increase claims, while political jitters in debt-laden Italy cast shadows on the euro zone. The reinsurers Swiss Re and Hannover RE led a weaker European insurance sector index. 
''We are seeing insurers slide and we've sold a bit of Aviva and RSA,'' said Ed Woolfitt, head of trading at Galvan Research.
The blue-chip Euro Stoxx 50 index fell 0.7 percent, to 2,478.84, after Silvio Berlusconi, the former prime minister of Italy, threatened to bring down the government of his successor, Mario Monti, which has appeased markets with its austerity agenda.
In London, the FTSE 100 fell 0.2 percent, to 5,795.10. The DAX index in Germany fell 0.4 percent, to 7,203.16, and the CAC 40 in Paris slipped 0.8 percent, to 3,408.89.
The euro fell against the dollar and yen, hurt by uncertainty over whether Greece could agree to a deal on austerity and with no sign of when Spain might request aid. The euro was expected to remain subdued against the dollar and the yen, with investors preferring safe-haven currencies, with weak earnings from top companies in the region weighing on investors.
The euro was down 0.3 percent at $1.290, not far from a two-week low of $1.2881.
The dollar rose to a session high against the yen ahead of a Bank of Japan policy review on Tuesday at which the central bank is expected to further ease monetary policy.
With the storm bearing down on the East Coast, trading was thin in United States foreign exchange, fixed-income, precious metals and energy markets as public transportation was shut in New York and parts of Lower Manhattan were evacuated.
''You have uncertainties now. You have these safe-haven purchases. People are trying to figure out the economic impact from the storm,'' said Larry Milstein, head of government and agency trading at R. W. Pressprich & Company in New York.
''Right now it's the easy way to buy Treasuries and wait to see what happens,'' Mr. Milstein said.
The benchmark United States 10-year Treasury note traded 8/32 higher in price to yield 1.72 percent.
United States heating oil futures gained, touching the highest level relative to crude oil on record, as dealers hedged against the risk of power failures and flooding from the hurricane that could damage refineries and keep production shut for weeks.
The crack spread, the difference in value between a barrel of heating oil and a barrel of crude oil, touched $45.15 a barrel.
''Markets will be watching for reports of damage to energy infrastructure, notably refineries, post-Sandy, given the state of extremely low gas oil inventories as we move into winter season,'' Deutsche Bank analysts said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INSURANCE (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); EURO (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WEATHER (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); MONETARY POLICY (61%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (60%)

COMPANY: SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (70%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%)

TICKER: SREN (SWX) (70%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1244 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; MIND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: He Won? I Knew It All Along

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
The economy, ''super PAC'' money, debate performances, the candidates' personalities. Roll it all together, and it's obvious who's going to win.
Or, uh, it will be.
Amid the many uncertainties of next Tuesday's presidential election lies one sure thing: Many people will feel in their gut that they knew the result all along. Not only felt it coming, but swear they predicted it beforehand -- remember? -- and probably more than once.
These analysts won't be hard to find. They will most likely include (in addition to news media pundits) neighbors, friends, co-workers and relatives, as well as the person whose reflection appears in the glare of the laptop screen. Most will also have a ready-made argument for why it was inevitable that Mitt Romney, or Barack Obama, won -- displaying the sort of false, after-the-fact ''foresight'' that psychologists call hindsight bias. 
''The important thing to know about hindsight bias is that it not only changes how you see the world, but also how you see yourself in it,'' said Neal Roese, a professor of marketing at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University, who just published a review paper on the bias with Kathleen D. Vohs of the University of Minnesota. ''You begin to think: 'Hey, I'm good. I'm really good at figuring out what's going to happen.' You begin to see outcomes as inevitable that were not.''
Long the province of political scientists, historians and pollsters, voters' behavior has more recently attracted the attention of psychologists. They have dug into the field over the past decade or so, finding a wide-open arena in which to test results from lab studies and in some cases drawing interest from campaign strategists. If politics is individual psychology writ large, then thinking about politics should be subject to the same shortfalls and quirks as thinking about anything else. And so it is, to some extent -- presenting some of the same opportunities for self-correction.
The most obvious carry-over to politics is confirmation bias, the reflexive instinct to begin with an assumption -- say, that poor people are lazy -- and notice only evidence that's supportive, like malingering, ignoring the efforts of the rest of the $5-an-hour night cleaning crew.
Hindsight bias is close to the reverse. People retrofit their opinions and judgments to the evidence, in this case to an election result, but just as often to a political decision (or nondecision) that went wrong. Of course it was clear that Saddam Hussein was bluffing about weapons of mass destruction. Anyone could have seen that. Of course the consulate in Benghazi needed beefed-up security.
Campaigns exploit this instinct, particularly when appealing to voters who second-guess decisions of someone they put in office, said Mark McKinnon, a former adviser to President George W. Bush and co-founder of No Labels, a nonprofit devoted to bipartisanship. ''As the challenger, you need to win over some of those voters,'' Mr. McKinnon said in an e-mail. ''You need to give them an out for their 'voters' remorse.' It's not them, you see, it was him.''
Once they know an outcome, people tend to inflate their initial predictions by an average of 15 to 20 percent, Dr. Roese said -- ample wiggle room to retrospectively alter almost any prediction from ''it's going to happen'' to ''it probably won't,'' be it a tennis match, a legal decision or a presidential race.
In 800 studies during the past few decades, researchers have demonstrated the effect consistently in predicting everything from legal decisions and stock movements to sports contests and world affairs.
In an experiment conducted during the Clinton administration, for instance, two psychologists at Loyola University in Chicago had 34 students predict the likelihood that the president would be convicted in his impeachment trial. The students' estimates ranged from about 50 percent 11 days before the decision to about 41 percent a few days before, as the news media were trending toward acquittal.
But 11 days after the Senate voted to acquit the president, the study found, the same students inflated their original estimates by about 10 percentage points. Their estimates of what a friend would have guessed showed no such inflation. The students identified themselves mostly as independents, with equal numbers of Republicans and Democrats.
An experiment led by the one of the same Loyola researchers, Fred B. Bryant, found a similar pattern in students estimating the likelihood that O. J. Simpson would be acquitted in his murder trial. In both studies, participants remembered their initial predictions as more accurate when judged more than a week after the fact than in the first few days after.
''Even after it has been explained to you 100 times, you can still fall prey'' to the bias, said Philip E. Tetlock, a professor of management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. ''Indeed, even after you've written about it 100 times.''
One reason it's hard to avoid this bias is that it mirrors how the brain operates biologically. The brain cannot possibly make sense of incoming sensory information instantaneously; it continually reconstructs, inserting meaning and making judgments very quickly, but post hoc.
''What consciousness does is tell the most compelling story it can come up with,'' Dr. Vohs, the University of Minnesota psychologist, said in an e-mail. ''That means to tell a neat story, where all the pieces fit together. This means that the past becomes a lot more 'knowable' than it was in reality, and hence hindsight bias.''
The downside of such distortion is not just the shock of being unmasked, when a rude friend or spouse points out your record of bad predictions. It also breeds contempt for others' judgments when those go south, which some inevitably do, especially in politics and diplomacy.
The solution is contained in the psychological processes that underlie the bias itself, studies suggest. Take the presidential race. It's a dead heat in the polls, and the fact that so many will argue after the vote that the winner was inevitable implies that they have front-loaded arguments to support both outcomes. One way to counteract the bias is to play out those possibilities before the final outcome.
In one study, for example, doctors read a case study describing a patient who arrived in a psychiatric clinic ''in a confused and agitated state'' and had a history of heavy drinking and unemployment as well as dementia in the family. Medical tests showed deficits in concentration and attention, but brain imaging results were inconclusive. The doctors rated the probability of three primary diagnoses -- alcohol withdrawal, Alzheimer's disease or brain damage from heavy drinking -- before learning the given answer.
But those who were prompted to explain reasons that each of the three diagnoses could be correct before making their decision showed significantly less hindsight bias later than those who made the call without playing out each possibility explicitly.
Other studies have shown the same for people predicting the outcomes of sports scores, legal decisions and finance. ''This consider-the-opposite strategy is effective, but it does not completely erase the bias,'' Dr. Roese said.
All of which is simply a reminder to cue up some blues discs as well as dance music next Tuesday, hedge all bets and be prepared to confess that what you knew all along was, well, nothing. At least that's more agreeable than sounding like every other hindsight expert.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE CHOICE: Casting a vote in Jerry City, Ohio, in the March 2008 presidential primary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. D. POOLEY/GETTY IMAGES) (D6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY VIKTOR KOEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); HISTORY (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (54%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1245 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: In Seattle, Virtual University Will Have a Physical Campus, Too

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
SEATTLE -- With name tags clipped on and PowerPoint at the ready, officials from Northeastern University invited prospective students in one night last week for a peek at a new extension campus, 2,500 miles from the school's home in Boston and about as far northwest as you can get in the lower 48 without swim fins. It is a trend that many colleges and universities have embraced in recent years -- remote campuses to extend the brand and the flow of tuition checks.
But there was more going on here. And all the new dean, J. Tayloe Washburn, had to do to demonstrate that was walk to the bank of windows in the meeting room where the prospects and the staff had congregated and throw wide his arms: the headquarters buildings of the tech giant Amazon.com filled the view under a gray Seattle mist. 
''We're very aware we'll be sitting across the street from 12,000 Amazon workers,'' said Mr. Washburn, a prominent Seattle lawyer and former chairman of the Greater Seattle Chamber of Commerce.
Remember the notion that technology would destroy the idea of place, creating work forces of telecommuters and disembodied companies -- or universities, for that matter -- that were no longer anchored anywhere because they did not have to be? Turns out to have been entirely wrong, say Northeastern officials, who are enthused over what they see as a post-recession technology boom in the making in places like Seattle, and one where postgraduate science and technology workers are in particularly short supply
Being where the action is, with a smile and shoeshine and the reputation of a 114-year-old research university to back it all up, they say, is more important than ever. Starting in January, Northeastern will offer online graduate-level courses here, taught by instructors back East, alongside real classroom courses in a Seattle neighborhood called South Lake Union, once more known for warehouses than Wi-Fi. In recent years, a cluster of health science research and computer science companies have also gathered to rub shoulders with Amazon.
''You have to be present on the ground, you have to understand the community, you have to become part of the community,'' Northeastern's president, Joseph E. Aoun, said in a telephone interview. A reliance on remote learning alone does not, he said, build relationships, a word he used repeatedly. ''It's mutually reinforcing -- the virtual is going to lead you to have the need for a physical presence and physical contact,'' he said, ''and the physical contact is being supplemented by the virtual dimensions.''
Economists and urban affairs experts say that in a strange way, the Great Recession intensified the concentration of technology workers here that Northeastern is aiming for. Industries like finance and construction, which had been big local job generators before the crash, fell away sharply, but Seattle-area stalwarts like Amazon, Boeing and Microsoft continued to grow, or at least hold stable.
At the same time, the University of Washington -- the dominant higher education institution in Seattle, and also a neighbor to Amazon -- got battered by years of deep budget cuts and tuition increases during the recession, as did many other public universities across the nation.
''What the recession did is it froze a lot of people in place,'' said Margaret O'Mara, an associate professor at the University of Washington who teaches American urban history and has written widely about technology centers, especially Silicon Valley. ''But it also, in a way, entrenched the geography of innovation, in part because people weren't selling and buying homes with such quickness and it was a little harder to change jobs.'' And all that compounded the larger trend, she said: ''In a digital world, place matters more than ever.''
The president of the Seattle Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce, Maud Daudon, said that having Northeastern in town, especially in the emerging hub around Amazon, could itself be a new draw to the area. ''Northeastern's presence will help to close the gap between businesses trying to fill positions, and trained, qualified candidates available to go to work,'' she said.
She said that with thousands of people expected to move into the area in the next few years, there is even talk of a South Lake Union area public school. As of the middle of this year, 20 residential apartment and condominium projects were under construction downtown, up from three in 2010, according to the Downtown Seattle Association, a nonprofit economic development group.
But prospective students dropping in to check out Northeastern's new digs mostly had to imagine it. The classrooms are still virtual, as in still under construction.
''I'm the new dean of a campus that doesn't exist yet,'' Mr. Washburn said in welcoming the attendees as they munched on sandwiches.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The location of an extension campus that Northeastern University is planning to build in Seattle. The campus will be near the Amazon headquarters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW RYAN WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISTANCE LEARNING (90%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); TRENDS (76%); TELECOMMUTING (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (69%); SCIENCE FUNDING (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (64%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (62%); BRANDING (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1246 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: As if the Ottoman Period Never Ended

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
ISTANBUL -- Since the lavish, feel-good Turkish epic ''Conquest 1453'' had its premiere this year, its tale of the taking of Constantinople by the 21-year-old Sultan Mehmet II has become the highest-grossing film in Turkey's history, released in 12 countries across the Middle East and in Germany and the United States. But its biggest impact may be the cultural triumphalism it has magnified at home. 
''Conquest 1453'' (known as ''Fetih 1453'' in Turkish) has spawned a television show with the same title and has encouraged clubs of proud Turks to re-enact battles from the empire's glory days and even dress up as sultans and Ottoman nobles. The producers of ''Once Upon a Time Ottoman Empire Mutiny,'' a television series about the 18th-century insurrection against Sultan Ahmet Khan III, said they planned to build a theme park where visitors will be able to wander through a reproduction of Ottoman-era Istanbul and watch sword fights by stuntmen. At least four new films portray the battle of Gallipoli, the bloody World War I face-off between the Ottomans and Allied forces over the straits of Dardanelles and one of the greatest victories of modern Turkey. The coming ''In Gallipoli'' even includes Mel Gibson starring as a British commander.
The Ottoman period, particularly during the 16th and 17th centuries, was marked by geopolitical dominance and cultural prowess, during which the sultans claimed the spiritual leadership of the Muslim world, before the empire's slow decline culminated in World War I. For years the period was underplayed in the history taught to schoolchildren, as the new Turkish Republic created by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk in 1923 sought to break with a decadent past.
Now, as Turkey is emerging as a leader in the Middle East, buoyed by strong economic growth, a new fascination with history is being reflected in everything from foreign policy to facial hair. In the arts, framed examples of Ottoman-era designs, known as Ebru and associated with the geometric Islamic motifs adorning mosques, have gained in popularity among the country's growing Islamic bourgeoisie, adorning walls of homes and offices, jewelry and even business cards.
The three-year-old Panorama Museum, which showcases an imposing 360-degree, 45-foot-tall painting of the siege of Constantinople, complete with deafening cannon fire blasts and museum security guards dressed as Janissary soldiers, is drawing huge crowds.
And in the past few years there has been a proliferation of Ottoman-themed soap operas, none more popular than ''The Magnificent Century,'' a sort of ''Sex in the City'' set during the 46-year reign of Sultan Suleiman the Magnificent. The Turkish show pulpishly chronicles the intrigues of the imperial household and harem, including the rise of Suleiman's slave girl-turned-queen, Hurrem. Last year it was broadcast in 32 countries, including Morocco and Kosovo.
The empire's rehabilitation has inspired mixed feelings among cultural critics. ''The Ottoman revival is good for the national ego and has captured the psyche of the country at this moment, when Turkey wants to be a great power,'' said Melis Behlil, a film studies professor at Kadir Has University here. But, she warned: ''It terrifies me because too much national ego is not a good thing. Films like 'Conquest 1453' are engaging in cultural revisionism and glorifying the past without looking at history in a critical way.''
Faruk Aksoy, the 48-year-old director of ''Conquest 1453,'' said that he had dreamed of making a film about the conquering of Istanbul ever since he arrived there at the age of 10 from Urfa, in Turkey's rugged southeast, and had been mesmerized by Istanbul's imperial grandeur. But he had to wait 10 years to make a big-budget film because the financing and technology were not available.
The film's budget of $18.2 million was a record in Turkey, but it has more than recouped that, grossing $40 million in Turkey and Europe, Mr. Aksoy said. So stirred was a crowd at a recent screening that it roared ''God is Great!'' as the sword-wielding Ottomans scaled Istanbul's forbidden walls. Mr. Aksoy recalled that one cinema manager debated calling the police, fearing a real fight.
''We Turks are hot-blooded people,'' he said. ''The Turks are proud about the conquest because it not only changed our history but it also changed the world.''
But others warn of a dangerous cultural jingoism at work. Burak Bekdil, a columnist for Hurriyet Daily News, mused in a recent column that the time was ripe for a film called ''Conquest 1974,'' to celebrate the Turkish invasion of Cyprus, or ''Extinction 1915,'' to commemorate the genocide of 1.5 million Armenians during World War I. Death threats followed.
Critics have also faulted the film for inaccuracies and hyperbole, though Mr. Aksoy stressed that he had employed Ottoman scholars. Members of the court of the last Byzantine emperor, Constantine XI -- portrayed as hedonistic boozers surrounded by nubile dancing girls -- talk in Turkish rather than Greek or Latin. Even Mehmet II, the conquering Sultan famed for his prodigious nose, has been retooled as a heroic pretty boy.
Alper Turgut, a leading film critic, deplored this one-dimensional universe even as he lauded the film's epic ambitions. ''If they had exaggerated just a bit more, it would be an absurdist comedy,'' he said in an interview.
Mr. Aksoy expressed annoyance that a film meant to entertain was being politicized. ''Would you ask Ridley Scott if he was politically influenced?'' he asked.
Cultural critics noted that the film's religious underpinning -- there's even a cameo by the Prophet Muhammad predicting that Constantinople will be conquered by believers -- had made it popular with the growing Islamic bourgeoisie in a country that has increasingly turned its back on the crisis-ridden Europe and instead looks increasingly eastward. (The movie has also been embraced by some members of the governing Islamic party as an alternative to Hollywood's ''crusader mentality.'')
Religious conservatives had been marginalized during the secular cultural revolution undertaken by Ataturk. ''For the first time we are seeing this new Islamic bourgeoisie, its tastes and its mores, reflected on the small and big screens,'' Mr. Turgut said.
Ms. Behlil noted that the advent of big-budget television shows and films depicting the Ottoman era owed something to the country's popularity in the Arab world, which was bringing in new revenues for production companies. Last year Turkey was Europe's largest exporter of soap operas, pocketing $70 million in revenues.
But it is at home that the series and films are having a profound impact, educating a new generation of Turks.
Burak Temir, 24, a German-Turkish actor who played a prince on ''Once Upon a Time Ottoman Empire Mutiny,'' said he had initially been intimidated about portraying an era he knew so little about.
To prepare for his part, the show gave him a four-month crash course in Ottoman manners that included learning how to ride horses, sword fight, use a bow and arrow and puff out his chest. Even when not filming the show, he sports a Sultan-like beard and skinny Ottoman-style pants. ''It makes me proud to be Turkish,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a scene from ''Once Upon a Time Ottoman Empire Mutiny''
above, a poster for ''Fetih 1453''
left, a tourist in Ottoman attire inside a Topkapi Palace photo booth. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AYMAN OGHANNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
ADEM ALTAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (C1)
Visitors at the Panorama Museum in Istanbul. Large crowds are flocking to the institution, which features a 360-degree painting of the siege of Constantinople.
A traditionally dressed military band on the streets of Istanbul.
 The actress Aslihan Guner on the set of ''Once Upon a Time Ottoman Empire Mutiny.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AYMAN OGHANNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR I (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); HISTORY (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); CHILDREN (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (94%) TURKEY (97%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1247 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MEDIA DECODER; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Anderson Cooper's Talk Show Won't Be Renewed

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
The syndication arm of the Warner Brothers studio has decided that there will not be a third season of "Anderson," the daily talk show hosted by Anderson Cooper. 
Citing disappointing ratings, a studio executive, who insisted on not being identified because the studio had planned no official release on the decision, said on Monday that the entire talk television market has been struggling to build audiences. Mr. Cooper's show, which is produced by Telepictures, will end after the summer of 2013.
The executive spoke because some of the stations that have been carrying Mr. Cooper's show have begun making feelers about replacement shows, and the news was certain to leak out through one of them, the executive said.
The Warner Brothers syndication unit issued a statement on Monday:
"We are extremely proud of Anderson and the show that he and the entire production team have produced. While we made significant changes to the format, set and produced it live in its second season, the series will not be coming back for a third season in a marketplace that has become increasingly difficult to break through. We will continue to deliver top-quality shows throughout next summer."
Mr. Cooper released his own statement:
"I am very proud of the work that our terrific staff has put into launching and sustaining our show for two seasons. I am also grateful to Telepictures for giving me the opportunity, and indebted to viewers, who have responded so positively. I look forward to doing more great shows this season, and though I'm sorry we won't be continuing, I have truly enjoyed it."
The decision was not a reflection of any lack of faith in Mr. Cooper, the executive said, but an acknowledgement of the business realities in daytime talk television.
The studio "could have renewed the show but could not create a viable economic business model to move forward," the executive said.
Even Katie Couric's much anticipated new talk show has not yet emerged as a bona fide hit, the executive said. And new shows with other hosts, including Jeff Probst and Ricki Lake, have fared poorly.
But Mr. Cooper, who is also a mainstay in prime time on CNN, had been expected to be a star in daytime talk when his show started last fall. After one year with sub-par ratings, the studio and Mr. Cooper instituted a series of changes including stressing same-day tapings as often as possible to deal with breaking subjects, and a new location for the studio.
Mr Cooper was on assignment for CNN in New Jersey Monday, covering Hurricane Sandy.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALI GOLDSTEIN/WARNER BROTHERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDIA SYNDICATION (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

COMPANY: WARNER BROTHERS STUDIO STORES INTERNATIONAL (58%)

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1248 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Awaiting Storm's Price Tag

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Stephanie Clifford, Clifford Krauss and Stephanie Strom contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Hundreds of big stores shut tight from the Carolinas to Maine. Traders and investors paralyzed as the stock market and most major exchanges closed. Millions of workers stuck at home for another day.
Even as businesses struggled on Monday to gauge and contain the damage from Hurricane Sandy's slow move up the East Coast, economists played down the likely long-term effects. The recovery after the storm, they said, could actually pump up growth temporarily in a few sectors, like construction and retail sales, when cleanup begins in earnest in a few days.
Immediately, though, the focus was on just how long it would take for business to resume as financial markets, department stores, and most big companies announced plans to close Tuesday for the second day in a row. Unlike some hurricanes that blew through in a day, Hurricane Sandy was projected to linger over the Northeast for much of the week, broadening the short-term fallout.
Over all, economic losses from the storm could range from $10 billion to $20 billion, according to an analysis by Eqecat, a firm that performs catastrophe risk modeling for the insurance industry and government. On that scale, big insurers might account for $5 billion to $10 billion in losses. 
''We think it's going to be big,'' said Tom Larsen, senior vice president and product architect at Eqecat, suggesting the toll could fall somewhere between that of Hurricane Ike in 2008 and Hurricane Irene last year. ''Broad areas are going to be subject to high winds for a longer period of time than in a normal Category 1 storm.''
Of course, some sectors will be hurt more than others. A study last year by the Global Business Travel Association estimated that a typical Category 3 hurricane on the East Coast could reduce spending on business travel by just under $700 million.
Hurricane Sandy was a Category 1 storm, which is significantly less powerful than a Category 3 hurricane, but its extended stay throughout the East Coast could actually result in higher losses than the study found, said Joseph Bates, the association's vice president for research.
''The scenario we looked at only had an impact of one day,'' he said. ''This storm is going to last at least three days.''
Besides the halt in electronic and floor trading in virtually all Wall Street financial markets Monday and Tuesday, several prominent companies delayed scheduled announcements.
Pfizer, the big drug maker, put off its third-quarter earnings report until Thursday, while Thomson Reuters and NRG Energy delayed their reports until Friday.
Google canceled an event planned for Monday to introduce a new smartphone, the Nexus 4, as well as several new tablets, all aimed at the holiday shopping season. Facebook also called off an event showcasing its new Gifts platform, which had been set to take place at F.A.O. Schwarz in Manhattan on Thursday.
Major retailers began closing New York stores on Sunday afternoon.
Saks Fifth Avenue boarded up its flagship store in Manhattan, a striking image for a retailer known for its high-fashion windows.
''We have taken the necessary precautions in each store to protect our property and limit damage,'' said a spokeswoman, Julia Bentley, in an e-mail. Saks closed stores in nine other locations from Maryland to Boston.
On Monday, about 130 of the 850 Macy's and Bloomingdale's stores nationwide were closed, said a spokesman, Jim Sluzewski.
''We're not selling generators or bottled water or any of those sorts of items, so given that much of what we sell is discretionary, it's not as big of an issue for our customers,'' he said.
Sears Holdings had closed 115 stores as of midday Monday, and was monitoring the storm to see where to send generators for stores in case power went out, said a spokesman, Tom Aiello. Among Sears shoppers, tools and generators were popular items, while at the company's Kmart unit, blankets, food and water were selling well, Mr. Aiello said.
Lowe's had closed 51 stores by midday Monday. In the Northeast, products in demand ranged from extension cords to utility pumps and snow shovels, a company spokeswoman, Stacey C. Lentz, said.
A day or two of lost sales is painful for stores in the holiday season, although many retailers and analysts expected consumers to put off holiday shopping until after the election.
Oliver Chen, an analyst for Citigroup, wrote in a research note that he estimated shopping could be down as much as 40 percent for the week in affected areas, and November comparable-store sales could be down by as much as 2 to 3 percent. However, he said, stores that sell emergency supplies, food and other staples should see an uptick in traffic and sales.
In the energy sector, the impact was also expected to be short term.
Inventories for heating oil, diesel and jet fuel in the Northeast were already low before the arrival of the storm, so there could be shortages of refined petroleum products in the wake of the hurricane.
There are five refineries in the storm path, with the Phillips 66 refinery in Linden, N.J., potentially the most at risk from flooding and storm surge, according to energy experts. The refinery, with 238,000 barrels of production capacity, was shut down as a precaution though it has never suffered a significant flood.
Most energy experts said that a gasoline price spike lasting more than a couple of days was unlikely because demand for gasoline is expected to decline significantly because of the storm.
''Every hurricane that lands on shore is a demand destroyer, but it's the rare one that destroys supply,'' said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service.
Economists do not foresee long-term impact from the storm, even if it results in billions of dollars in property damage from the high winds and lashing rain.
Powerful storms disrupt consumer spending and can cause sharp month-to-month swings in economic data, said Christopher D. Carroll, an economics professor at Johns Hopkins University, who has analyzed the impact of weather events for the Federal Reserve.
While it was hard to measure statistically, the effect of lost work hours was probably less today than in the past because of technology that allows people to work from home, he added.
Eventually, most spending or other activity is simply pushed forward, a phenomenon known in economics as intertemporal substitution. For example, because the New York Stock Exchange is closed on Monday and Tuesday, volume will probably rise on Wednesday and Thursday when trading will probably resume.
The most powerful hurricanes come along once or twice a decade -- like Katrina or Andrew -- and can actually increase economic activity.
''It's a problematic aspect of how we account for economic output,'' said Mr. Carroll. ''Of course, it's terrible when something is destroyed. That doesn't show up in the calculation of gross domestic product. However, the rebuilt house does.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As Hurricane Sandy approached New York City, Saks Fifth Avenue boarded up its department store on Fifth Avenue, Wall Street markets stopped trading and other shops like Starbucks braced for the severe weather. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (89%); WEATHER (89%); INSURANCE (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (51%); FACEBOOK INC (50%); GOOGLE INC (50%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFEB (BRU) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1249 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Duty and Honor in Helping the Sick

BYLINE: By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D.

 BODY:
When a book is heavy with glossy photographs, you seldom expect too much from its words. In "The American Nurse," though, it's the narrative that hits you in the solar plexus.
Take the comments of Jason Short, a hospice nurse in rural Kentucky. Mr. Short started out as an auto mechanic, then became a commercial trucker. "When the economy went under," he says, "I thought it would be a good idea to get into health care." But a purely pragmatic decision became a mission: Mr. Short found his calling among the desperately ill of Appalachia and will not be changing careers again.
"Once you get a taste for helping people, it's kind of addictive," he says, dodging the inspirational verbiage that often smothers the healing professions in favor of a single incontrovertible point. 
Some of the 75 nurses who tell their stories in this coffee-table book headed into the work with adolescent passion; others backed in reluctantly just to pay the bills. But all of them speak of their difficult, exhilarating job with the same surprised gratitude: "It's a privilege and honor to do what I do," says one. "I walk on sacred ground every day."
They hail from a few dozen health care settings around the country, ranging from large academic institutions like Johns Hopkins in Baltimore to tiny facilities like the Villa Loretto Nursing Home in Mount Calvary, Wis., home to 50 patients and a collection of goats, sheep and other animals on a therapeutic farm. Some nurses are administrators, some staff wards or emergency rooms, some visit patients at home. Many are deeply religious, a few are members of the military, and a handful of immigrants were doctors in their home countries.
All describe unique professional paths in short first-person essays culled from video interviews conducted by the photographer Carolyn Jones. Their faces beam out from the book in Ms. Jones's black-and-white headshots, a few posing with a favorite patient or with their work tools - a medevac helicopter, a stack of prosthetic limbs or a couple of goats.
But even the best photographs are too static to capture people who never stop moving once they get to work. For a real idea of what goes on in their lives, you have to listen to them talk.
Here is Mary Helen Barletti, an intensive care nurse in the Bronx: "My whole life I've marched to a the beat of a different drummer. I used to have purple hair, which I'd blow-dry straight up. I wore tight jeans, high heels and - God forgive me - fur (now I am an animal rights activist). My patients loved it. They said I was like sunshine coming into their room."
Says Judy Ramsay, a pediatric nurse in Chicago: "For twelve years I took care of children who would never get better. People ask how I could do it, but it was the most fulfilling job of my life. We couldn't cure these kids, but we could give them a better hour or even a better minute of life. All we wanted to do was make their day a little brighter."
Says Brad Henderson, a nursing student in Wyoming: "I decided to be a nurse because taking care of patients interested me. Once I started, nursing just grabbed me and made me grow up."
Says Amanda Owen, a wound care nurse at Johns Hopkins: "My nickname here is 'Pus Princess.' I don't talk about my work at cocktail parties."
John Barbe, a hospice nurse in Florida, sums it up: "When I am out in the community and get asked what I do for a living, I say that I work at Tidewell Hospice, and there's complete silence. You can hear the crickets chirping. It doesn't matter because I love what I do; I can't stay away from this place."
The volume is not entirely about selfless service: It was underwritten by Fresenius-Kabi, a German health care corporation and leading supplier of intravenous drugs in the United States. Presumably, crass public relations motives lurk somewhere in the background. But that's no real reason to be meanspirited about the result, a compelling advertisement for an honorable profession.
Young people with kind hearts and uncertain futures might just sit themselves down with the book, or wander through the Web site featuring its video interviews, www.americannurseproject.com, and see what happens.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KEEPERS: The sisters of the Villa Loretto Nursing Home in Mount Calvary, Wis., care for 50 patients and a menagerie.
HOME: Brian McMillion of the V.A. San Diego Healthcare System was a medic in the Persian Gulf war.
AWAY: Bridget L. Kumbella, from Cameroon, is a nurse in the Bronx.
NURTURING: Sister Stephen Bloesl first proposed raising animals at Villa Loretto.
 AIRBORNE: Venus Anderson is a life-flight nurse at the Nebraska Medical Center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CAROLYN JONES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); MAMMALS (86%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); NURSING HOMES (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); HOSPICE (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); RELIGION (70%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (70%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (64%); HELICOPTERS (50%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (54%) MARYLAND, USA (54%) CAMEROON (79%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1250 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: At Election Time, a Plea to Remember the Hungry

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It's critical in this presidential campaign to highlight the plight of many Americans as featured in your Oct. 24 front-page article ''Living Standards in the Shadows as Election Issue.'' 
This national tragedy has never been worse, with more than 50 million Americans suffering from hunger, according to the Agriculture Department. At election time, candidates need to talk about how to end hunger in America.
First is to support the system of emergency food banks throughout the country through public donations and increasing financing for the federal government's Emergency Food Assistance Program.
Congress will soon be crafting a new farm bill, and this is a critical piece of legislation for protecting vulnerable Americans. They need to hear from the public on the importance of food safety nets like the food assistance program to keep Americans afloat in a struggling economy.
WILLIAM LAMBERS Cincinnati, Oct. 24, 2012
The writer is the author of ''Ending World Hunger'' and a member of the Feeding America Blogger Council.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (88%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (88%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (87%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (87%); LEGISLATION (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); FOOD SAFETY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1251 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: A Week Before the Day of Decision

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Barack Obama for Re-Election'' (editorial, Oct. 28):
I would like to commend The Times for its beautifully written, detailed and often pointed article endorsing President Obama. It is the finest one I have seen so far. 
I was happy to see that you addressed the economic meltdown that could have occurred had Mr. Obama not have taken the proper measures. It amazes me that so many people cling to the absurd notion that Democrats are ''bad for the economy'' when history does not bear it out.
I was even happier to see that my civil rights as a gay citizen, as well as the astounding misconceptions regarding the Affordable Care Act, were addressed -- not to mention the potential horror of a Supreme Court under a Romney-Ryan administration.
NELSON HARPER Columbus, Ohio, Oct. 28, 2012
To the Editor:
Re ''The Price of a Black President,'' by Fredrick C. Harris (Sunday Review, Oct. 28):
In criticizing President Obama for not giving more attention to ''black issues,'' his critics seem to ignore the racial statistics that delivered him to the White House.
The 95 percent of us (black voters) who supported him in 2008 simply couldn't have elected him by ourselves. Mr. Obama needed widespread support beyond black voters and, coming to power amid the Great Recession, he had to do some political triage.
In the short term, that ''priority juggling'' might have appeared insensitive to African-Americans and certain other supportive political constituencies.
Despite his shortcomings, it might be wise for critics to examine the 2008 and 2012 alternatives.
Is there evidence that Senator John McCain would have been more attentive to issues facing African-Americans than President Obama? What about Mitt Romney and the ultraconservatives who now exert so much influence in his campaign?
DAVID L. EVANS Cambridge, Mass., Oct. 28, 2012
To the Editor:
We live in a time when dissembling and disenfranchisement are characterized as campaign tactics, rather than as threats to representative democracy.
It is frankly churlish for Fredrick C. Harris to ignore the sophistication exhibited by African-Americans in choosing to compare President Obama to the alternative, rather than to the Almighty.
RUDOLPH C. GABRIEL Waxhaw, N.C., Oct. 28, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1252 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Turns Fire On Obama Pillar, The Auto Bailout

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEREMY W. PETERS; Jim Rutenberg reported from Toledo, and Jeremy W. Peters from New York. Richard A. Oppel Jr. contributed reporting from Sabina, Ohio.

 BODY:
TOLEDO, Ohio -- The ad from Mitt Romney showed up on televisions here early Saturday morning without the usual public announcement that both campaigns typically use to herald their latest commercials: Chrysler, a bailout recipient, is going to begin producing Jeeps in China, an announcer says, leaving the misleading impression that the move would come at the expense of jobs here.
And so began the latest, and perhaps most important, attempt by Mitt Romney to wrest Ohio into his column. His effort to do so is now intently focused, at times including statements that stretch or ignore the facts, on knocking down what is perhaps the most important component of President Obama's appeal to blue-collar voters in Ohio and across the industrial Midwest: the success of the president's 2009 auto bailout.
Mr. Obama's relatively strong standing in most polls in Ohio so far has been attributed by members of both parties to the recovery of the auto industry, which has helped the economy here outperform the national economy. At the same time, the industry's performance and the president's claim to credit for it appear to have helped Mr. Obama among the white working-class voters Mr. Romney needs. 
With the race under most expected circumstances coming down to Ohio, and Ohio potentially coming down to perceptions of how the candidates view the auto industry, Mr. Romney has spent the last few days aggressively trying to undercut Mr. Obama's auto bailout narrative.
In the past few days his running mate, Representative Paul D. Ryan, has accused Mr. Obama of allowing the bailout to bypass nonunion workers at Delphi, a big auto parts maker with operations in Ohio; Mr. Romney has characterized Mr. Obama's bailout plan as based on his approach; and Mr. Romney incorrectly told a rally in Defiance, Ohio, late last week outright that Jeep was considering moving its production to China. (Jeep is discussing increasing production in China for sales within China; it is not moving jobs out of Ohio or the United States, or building cars in China for export to the United States.)
It is a high-risk strategy: Jeep's corporate parent, Chrysler, had already released a scathing statement calling suggestions that Jeep was moving American jobs to China ''fantasies'' and ''extravagant''; news media outlets here and nationally have called the Romney campaign's statements -- initially based on a poorly worded quotation from Chrysler in a news article that was misinterpreted by blogs -- misleading.
Mr. Obama's campaign, seeking to maintain what it sees as its advantage in Ohio, responded on Monday by releasing a commercial calling Mr. Romney's ad false and reiterating that Mr. Romney had opposed the bailout on the terms supported by Mr. Obama. And on Sunday it dispatched the investment banker who helped develop the bailout, Steven Rattner, here to discuss Jeep's plans and the auto rescue with local news organizations.
Democrats are hoping that Mr. Romney's latest move will draw a backlash in a city so dependent on Jeep, which has announced plans to add 1,100 jobs to an assembly plant here that is currently being refitted for the next iteration of what is now called the Jeep Liberty.
Bruce Baumhower, the president of the United Auto Workers local that oversees the major Jeep plant here, said Mr. Romney's initial comments on moving production to China drew a rash of calls from members concerned about their jobs. When he informed them Chrysler was, in fact, is expanding its Jeep operation here, he said in an interview, ''The response has been, 'That's pretty pitiful.' ''
The fight over the auto bailout shows the enduring power of the issue but also its complexities in a campaign that is about both the strength of the economy and the size and role of government.
The auto bailout was one of the first major moves of Mr. Obama's presidency, and gave Mr. Romney an early chance in opposing it to prove his conservative credentials.
Mr. Romney has portrayed himself as an automobile maven. As he frequently says in his stump speeches, his father was credited with keeping American Motors in business during the 1950s and early 1960s. (The company, it happens, owned Jeep from 1970 to 1987.)
Just as the incoming Obama administration was beginning to contemplate a bailout, Mr. Romney wrote an Op-Ed article in the The New York Times -- given the title by the newspaper ''Let Detroit Go Bankrupt.'' In the piece Mr. Romney wrote that in the event of a bailout, ''You can kiss the American automotive industry goodbye.''
The plan the administration settled on first helped Fiat buy Chrysler and then put both Chrysler and General Motors into managed bankruptcies as part of a program that brought total government assistance for Detroit to almost $80 billion between the Obama and Bush administrations. Coming as the Tea Party was beginning to form, it seemed like risky politics for Democrats being accused of taking big government to an extreme.
At the third and last debate last week in Boca Raton, Fla., Mr. Romney emphasized his position that ''these companies need to go through a managed bankruptcy, and in that process they can get government help and government guarantees.''
Mr. Romney has stepped up his offense on the issue since.
So it was that he told those at the exuberant rally on Thursday in Defiance, ''I saw a story today that one of the great manufacturers in this state, Jeep, now owned by the Italians, is thinking of moving all production to China.''
Mr. Romney was apparently referring to a Bloomberg News article that said Jeep would return to manufacturing in China that had been misinterpreted by several conservative blogs to mean Jeep was shifting its production to China; the company made clear in a statement that Chrysler was only resuming production in China for Chinese consumers, which it had done for years before halting in 2009 before its sale to Fiat.
Mr. Romney's ad treads carefully, with an announcer saying Mr. Obama ''sold Jeep to the Italians, who are going to build Jeeps in China'' and the screen flashing, ''Plans to return Jeep output to China.''
Calling it ''blatant attempt to create a false impression,'' former Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio, a Democrat, demanded Mr. Romney take it down on Monday. Stuart Stevens, a senior Romney adviser, disputed that the ad is misleading.
''Right now every Jeep built is built in America by an American and sold to the world,'' he said. ''Now instead of adding jobs in Toledo, they will be making Jeeps in China by the Chinese and selling them in China.''
Jeep began a joint manufacturing venture in China in 1984 and today makes some vehicles in Egypt and Venezuela. While it does produce cars for Chinese export here now, it has discussed returning some production to China since last year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Public opinion about the candidates and issues including gas prices and abortion was registered along a roadside in Celina, Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (67%); PARENT COMPANIES (66%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (74%) OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1253 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: In San Diego, Gay Republican Finds He Can't Count on Gay and Lesbian Vote

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

 BODY:
SAN DIEGO -- A victory for Carl DeMaio, who is locked in a tight mayoral race, would make San Diego the second-largest city in the country to elect an openly gay mayor, and by far the largest to elect a gay Republican.
Yet, perhaps no group has opposed Mr. DeMaio as loudly as this city's sizable gay and lesbian population. 
Angered by his reticence on gay issues and his acceptance of campaign donations from backers of Proposition 8, California's 2008 ban on same-sex marriage, parts of the crowd booed Mr. DeMaio at a mayoral debate at the gay and lesbian community center here. He was booed again as he walked hand in hand with his partner in this year's gay pride parade.
And many gay and lesbian leaders here have lined up behind Bob Filner, 70, a Democratic congressman and Mr. DeMaio's opponent in the Nov. 6 election.
''For Carl DeMaio to be elected mayor would not be a victory for gay and lesbian people,'' said Linda Perine, a longtime lesbian organizer. ''It would be a defeat.''
That Mr. DeMaio, 38, could become the next mayor of San Diego -- long a conservative outpost in liberal California -- offers more evidence of just how dramatically the political landscape has changed for gays and lesbians in recent years. But this race has also exposed the particular challenges that gay Republicans running for office continue to face, as they try to balance a desire to further gay rights against an appeal to conservatives who oppose gay marriage.
While that list of gays and lesbians running for public office has grown in recent years -- Houston elected a lesbian mayor, Annise Parker, in 2009 and Tammy Baldwin is now challenging in Wisconsin to become the first openly gay United States senator -- few have been Republican.
In part, Mr. Filner, a former Freedom Rider and outspoken advocate of gay rights, owes his wide support from gay voters to simple partisan politics: gays and lesbians across the country vote overwhelmingly for Democrats. Some refuse to support anyone affiliated with a party that this year made opposition to gay marriage part of its platform.
Mr. DeMaio said that it is only a small minority among gay voters, with ties to organized labor, that is so vocally opposed to him.
But the Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund, which supports openly gay candidates from both parties, did not endorse Mr. DeMaio; neither did the Log Cabin Republicans, the party's leading gay political group, which is supporting Mitt Romney for president.
And he has also alienated some gay and lesbian voters who have supported Republicans like Jerry Sanders, the current mayor, whose tearful announcement of support for same-sex marriage in 2007 cost him some backers but rendered him a hero among many gays and lesbians.
''He stood up for us, and I felt it was our duty to stand up for him,'' Susan Atkins, the chairwoman of the Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund, said of Mr. Sanders, whom she supported in 2008. But she will not support Mr. DeMaio.
While Mr. Sanders was campaigning aggressively against Proposition 8 four years ago, Mr. DeMaio stayed quiet on the issue as he ran for City Council in a conservative district.
Since then, Mr. DeMaio has stated his support for gay marriage, and voted to support gay causes on the council. But he has also accepted endorsements and campaign money from major donors to Proposition 8. And social issues like gay rights, he has repeatedly said, would not be a priority for him as mayor.
''I'm proud of San Diego that sexual orientation has not played an issue in this race,'' Mr. DeMaio said. ''I've been running on fiscal reforms and prosperity to create jobs. That's the agenda that I think has brought so many diverse groups together.''
That message has resonated with conservatives, and the Republican Party of San Diego County endorsed Mr. DeMaio over two other Republicans in the primary.
''Carl's been embraced by just about everyone,'' said Tony Krvaric, the group's chairman. ''He has a lot in common with a lot of people on the fiscally conservative side.''
Donald P. Haider-Markel, a political science professor at the University of Kansas and the author of ''Out and Running,'' about openly gay candidates seeking public office, said that until recently gay Republicans candidates had largely run in Democratic districts.
But while gay Republicans remain unlikely to win races in the most conservatives parts of the country, he said, their map has expanded. He called this race -- a local election in a politically moderate city -- an ''ideal'' circumstance, and said Mr. DeMaio was savvy to focus on the economy.
''It's not really advantageous for candidates to focus on social issues at the local level,'' Professor Haider-Markel said, because major issues like same-sex marriage will be decided at the state and federal levels.
In a relentlessly negative race, it is Mr. Filner who has brought up gay issues far more often, as he has attacked Mr. DeMaio's record and tried to position himself as a champion of civil rights.
''He's beholden to these antigay financial interests,'' Mr. Filner said.
Mr. Filner has also criticized Mr. DeMaio's partner, the publisher of the San Diego Gay & Lesbian News, which has led some of Mr. DeMaio's supporters to accuse Mr. Filner of ''gay baiting'' -- trying to draw attention to Mr. DeMaio's sexual orientation in hopes that social conservatives will decline to vote for him.
Jim Kolbe, an Arizona Republican who became the second openly gay Republican in the House when he came out in 1996, said he faced opposition similar to what Mr. DeMaio has encountered from gay voters, who he said viewed him as ''not sufficiently supportive'' of gay issues.
He said he wished more gays and lesbians would consider supporting Republicans.
''When I came out, it was nearly impossible for a Republican who was gay to run for office for the first time; that's no longer true,'' he said. ''Within another 10 years, this will be a complete nonissue.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carl DeMaio, left, a San Diego councilman who is a gay Republican, is running for mayor against Bob Filner, right, a Democrat. The race has exposed the particular challenges that gay Republicans face as they try to balance a desire to further gay rights against an appeal to conservatives who oppose gay marriage. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM HODGSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (98%); MAYORS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); MARRIAGE LAW (70%); PARADES & MARCHES (70%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BOB FILNER (77%); TAMMY BALDWIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1254 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Farmers Find Path Out of Hardship in Corn Mazes

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON; Robbie Brown contributed reporting from Atlanta.

 BODY:
MILTON, Tenn. -- Over the course of a month, Stan Vaught's two sons will make more money letting people walk through a maze carved from 10 acres of corn than he will raising cattle and soybeans on the other 190 acres of his family's farmland.
All across the country, small farmers have figured out the same formula. The hundreds of corn mazes that rise up each autumn can be more lucrative than agriculture itself.
''For a lot of people who have these farms with a few hundred acres, it's an opportunity to make a living and not have to get rid of the farm or not be able to keep it up,'' said Mr. Vaught, whose land on a former Civil War battle site in central Tennessee has been in his family for seven generations. 
Corn mazes have gotten so popular in the past decade that those who engage in the craft hold annual conventions. Mazes are tricked out with zip lines, live zombie scarecrows and corn cannons, which can shoot an ear of corn across a field. People buy tickets online or pay on hand-held devices, sometimes handing over $20 or more to enjoy a range of countrified entertainment.
It is a perfect pursuit for a culture enjoying a local food diet in a high-tech era.
''Corn mazes are similar to the cultural connections farmers markets and C.S.A.'s are creating between two worlds,'' said Kendall Thu, an anthropology professor at Northern Illinois University in Dekalb, Ill., and editor of the journal Culture & Agriculture. C.S.A.'s are community-supported agriculture programs in which customers buy produce from farmers in advance.
Unlike farmers markets, which have a certain upscale appeal in urban markets, corn mazes are especially popular among the suburban masses longing for a country experience many have only heard about.
The Vaught boys, Jackson, 19, and Chandler, 16, who started building mazes in Milton eight years ago as a way to make some extra money, took in more than $8,000 on a recent Saturday, they said. They usually create a patriotic pattern. This year, the maze is laid out to depict busts of President Obama and Mitt Romney.
The presidential candidates are popular designs at other mazes, too.
''They just crack up when you say you can go through the maze and walk around in their heads and see what's going on,'' said Earl Robinson, who rented six acres next to his garden center in New Carlisle, Ohio, to make a Romney-Obama maze. The enterprise helps him keep his employees on the payroll during the slow season.
People like corn mazes because they like to work puzzles, certainly. And for many, it has become as much a Halloween tradition as carving a pumpkin.
But there is also an unspoken draw to the country that makes thousands of people hand over $8 to wander the Vaught maze, said Jackson Vaught, a freshman at Vanderbilt University in Nashville. He is studying politics and economics on a merit scholarship and comes home for the weekends to work the maze.
His friends at college are enthralled that his family actually lives on a farm.
''I have not met another person at school who has grown up on a farm,'' said Mr. Vaught, who got called ''corn maze boy'' in high school.
Chandler Vaught often runs the hayrides that are part of their maze experience. He laughs when he pulls the tractor past the family cows and people make him stop so they can take pictures.
''It's like they are seeing animals at the zoo,'' he said.
The king of the American corn maze industry is Brett Herbst, who runs an elaborate maze in Lehi, Utah. But he makes most of his money helping other people build corn mazes.
He designed and helped cut more than 266 corn mazes this year -- a record for him. He's put mazes on fields in Poland, Canada and England, but they seem to be a most American phenomenon, he said.
His first was on some rented land in Utah in 1996, when he was fresh out of agricultural business school and no idea how to make a living. He read about one in Pennsylvania while he was flipping through a farming magazine.
Mr. Herbst and his business partners grew the corn to its full size, then hacked out a path with a Weedwacker equipped with a saw blade. It was stupid, hot work.
They wised up. Now, computer-generated patterns are staked out when the corn is small enough to mow or till under. Or, as is the case in Milton, doused with a chemical that kills the corn, creating paths smooth enough for a baby stroller.
Farmers pay Mr. Herbst $3,000 to $6,000 for the service.
For large-scale farmers who grow crops on thousands of acres of agricultural land, corn mazes are not much more than something to joke about. What has come to be called agritainment remains a niche market.
But for the people whose families hold 400 or 500 acres of farmland, mazes are an important piece of an economic formula that might include pick-your-own berry patches in the summer, Christmas trees in the winter and home landscaping plants in the spring.
Kathleen Liang, an economics professor at the University of Vermont, recently asked 3,898 farms in six New England states whether they had some form of agritourism as part of their business model. From 2007 to 2011, there was a 65 percent increase.
But it is a trend not without drawbacks. Dealing with tourists can take time away from actual farming, while their cars can tear up the land.
And even just a simple maze is not enough anymore.
''The golden age of corn mazes as a stand-alone attraction peaked three or four years ago,'' said Mr. Herbst, whose own corn maze complex includes an elaborate children's playground, a live pumpkin princess and pig races. The maze itself also depicts the presidential candidates.
''Most of the guys who had stand-alones are out of business now,'' he said. ''You can only ride a single wave for so long. You've got to constantly mix it up.''
And you have got to gauge complexity, too. Something too simple bores people. Something too challenging scares people away.
''People don't want to be in a corn maze for two hours,'' Mr. Herbst said.
But attention spans vary. People in more rural areas who are comfortable spending time in the country prefer a maze that takes about an hour and 15 minutes to complete, he said.
''In a place close to New York City,'' he said, ''probably 20 minutes is plenty for most people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Corn mazes have become big business, night and day at some farms. Visitors made their way in the dark at a maze in Milton, Tenn., top. Others played on hay bales. This year, the maze is laid out to depict busts of President Obama and Mitt Romney. It brings in more money than the rest of the farm. (A13)
 Stan Vaught gave instructions to a youth group visiting his corn maze in Milton, Tenn. The maze has been open eight years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JABIN BOTSFORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORN FARMING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (84%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (84%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (77%); FAMILY FARMS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (65%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); HALLOWEEN (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (67%); MITT ROMNEY (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1255 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Seems Awfully Smooth for a Wild Ride

BYLINE: By NATE SILVER

 BODY:
The conventional wisdom about this year's presidential race is that it has broken out of stasis to become wildly unpredictable.
And yet, after a period of polling turmoil after the Democratic Convention in Charlotte, N.C., and Mitt Romney's sharp rebound after the first presidential debate in Denver, the polling in most swing states now looks a lot like it did for much of the late spring and summer.
When we introduced this year's FiveThirtyEight forecast model on June 7, the closest states were Colorado, Ohio and Virginia, each of which slightly favored President Obama. In Florida and North Carolina, meanwhile, we had Mr. Romney listed as a modest favorite. 
Pretty much the same could be said about the race today. In fact, our projected leader in all 50 states is the same as when the forecast was posted in June. In the 18 states that were forecast to produce a single-digit race, our projection of the popular vote in each state has moved by just 1.5 percentage points, on average.
The change has been especially small in several of the most important battleground states. In June, Mr. Obama was projected to have a 3-point lead in Nevada, a 2.3-point lead in Iowa, a 1.3-point lead in Virginia, a 1.1-point lead in Ohio and a 1-point lead in Colorado. The forecast in those states has moved just four-tenths of a point since then, on average. The largest shift has been in Ohio, where Mr. Obama now has a 2.2-point edge.
Wisconsin clearly became more competitive after Mr. Romney's selection of Representative Paul D. Ryan as his running mate. Mr. Obama also enjoyed a more comfortable margin in New Hampshire in June than he does now. But generally, the model shows very little movement since June in the most highly contested states.
Could the race really have been this stable? Part of it is in the way the FiveThirtyEight forecast is constructed, since it uses nonpolling factors in a state (like its past voting results, relative to the national mean) in cases where the polling is sparse, helping to avoid unwarranted fluctuations based on one or two outlier polls.
But consider this interpretation of events. Before the Democratic convention, voters who took a favorable view of Mr. Obama but had lukewarm views on his performance may have represented easy targets for the president. After the convention, Mr. Obama's approval ratings caught up with his favorability ratings, and his performance in horse-race polls improved as a result.
Mr. Romney then seemed to claim most of the Republican-leaning voters after the first debate. That event precipitated a sharp improvement in Mr. Romney's favorability ratings.
The national polls certainly look different from what they did in June, but some of what looks like movement toward Mr. Romney instead reflects pollsters having switched over to likely-voter models from registered voter ones. In national polls that have reported results for both registered-voter and likely-voter models throughout the year, Mr. Romney has run about three points stronger, on average, in the likely-voter version. (Interestingly, this difference is smaller, about two points, in state polls.)
Of the remaining gains that Mr. Romney has made in national polls, many may have come from his improved performance in deeply red states, where the model has seen Mr. Romney increase his margin by 2 percent, on average, since June.
So anyone who thinks this race has been especially wild need only look at the polling trajectory in 1976, 1980 or 1992 to get a sense for what a variable presidential election looks like.
Over all, this race has been fairly stable, especially in the state polls, where the results we're now seeing are quite consistent with what the economic fundamentals might dictate: a very tight race, narrowly favoring Mr. Obama.
There is always the chance that the race could be disrupted over the final week of the campaign, including by the candidates' responses to Hurricane Sandy.
Academic studies on the effects of natural disasters on elections produce ambiguous results, but don't contradict the intuitive notion that a strong response to a disaster could help an incumbent, while a botched response could harm him. Most of these studies, however, seek to evaluate effects on elections held months or even years later.
And Hurricane Sandy is just too large a storm to make reliable guesses about where the vote might be depressed a week from now, or what effect that might have.
There is also the possibility that this will be one of those years when the polls miss the mark badly in one or another direction on Election Day.
There is a pretty good possibility, however, that our forecast in every state on Nov. 6 will be the same as it was on June 7.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (88%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1256 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. 'Super PAC' Makes Late Push in Pennsylvania

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
12:02 p.m. | Updated The "super-PAC" aiding Mitt Romney, Restore Our Future, is making a push into Pennsylvania, a state that has been considered strong for President Obama. 
On Monday the group put down about $2 million for a slate of television commercials through next Monday, the day before the presidential election.
The move prompted the Obama campaign to shift advertising resources there for the first time since July. It announced on Monday that it too would being airing commercials in the state.
The Restore Our Future purchase includes about $1.2 million in the voter-rich Philadelphia media market where Republicans believe they can make inroads with a number of different demographics, including Jewish voters who may be open the arguments put forward by the Romney campaign that Mr. Obama has not been supportive enough of Israel. Republicans have sought to drive distance between Mr. Obama and his Jewish constituency because of the recent tension between the United States and Israel over Iran.
Another group that has been advertising there is the Republican Jewish Coalition, which is airing an ad that features the founder of Home Depot, Bernie Marcus, criticizing Mr. Obama's economic leadership. And Americans for Job Security, another conservative super-PAC, is also going up with a new Pennsylvania ad campaign.
To be sure, Restore Our Future has been making some of the more long-shot bets in recent weeks. It continues to have a strong presence on the air in Michigan, which has been strongly leaning toward Mr. Obama in many recent polls. But the group also placed what ended up being a smart -- and seemingly long-shot -- bet on Wisconsin earlier this fall when few others were willing to devote resources there.
Now many polls show Wisconsin, home of the Republican vice-presidential nominee Paul D. Ryan, to be competitive.
The latest poll from The Philadelphia Inquirer, which was published over the weekend, showed that the president's lead in Pennsylvania had narrowed to 6 points from 8 points since the beginning of October.
Jim Messina, the president's campaign manager, said Monday that Mr. Obama's team will also start advertising in Pennsylvania, but insisted Democrats are in no danger of losing the state.
"We are going to go up as well," Mr. Messina said, responding to news that the Romney super-PAC would be advertising there. "We have the resources to match them and we are going to do that."
Mr. Messina said that the Romney campaign was "not close in Pennsylvania," but added that "we aren't taking anything for granted."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); JIM MESSINA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1257 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Is India's Rising Billionaire Wealth Bad for the Country?

BYLINE: VIVEK DEHEJIA


HIGHLIGHT: Inequality, measured by wealth controlled by the richest, is higher in India than in China or Brazil. 

 BODY:
The strength and direction of the Indian economy may be up for debate, but one remarkable fact is not: There has been massive growth in the number and wealth of billionaires in India since the economic liberalization measures in 1991.
The phenomenon has often been compared to the United States' experience in the latter part of the 19th century. This was a period evocatively described by Mark Twain and Charles Dudley Warner as America's "Gilded Age," a time characterized by industrialists so wealthy and powerful that they came to be pejoratively called "robber barons."
According to the 2012 list of the world's billionaires, compiled annually by Forbes, 48 of the 1,153 billionaires are from India, accounting for a little over 4 percent of the total. This compares to India's share of global output at 2.6 percent when compared using nominal exchange rates, or 5.7 percent when compared using "purchasing power parity" exchange rates.
By this metric, India's share of billionaires in the global total seems comparable to its overall share of the global economy. But look more closely, and a different picture emerges.
A recent study by the economists Aditi Gandhi, formerly of the Center for Policy Research in New Delhi, and Michael Walton of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard attempts to parse the sources of the wealth of India's billionaires as well as placing the Indian experience in comparative perspective. The data reveals a staggering increase in billionaires' wealth as a percentage of national income in India, from a low point of less than 1 percent in 1996 to a whopping 22 percent in 2008.
That number has dropped off as a result of the global financial crisis and plummeting stock markets in India and elsewhere, but as of 2012 it stands at just under 10 percent.
How does this compare to other countries? India is now on par with the United States and Mexico, where billionaires' wealth in both countries is about 10 percent of national income. Among the large emerging economies known as the BRICs, (referring to Brazil, Russia, India and China) India is more unequal than China (where the comparable statistic is below 5 percent) and amazingly even with Brazil (a little above 5 percent), historically a country noted for wide disparities in wealth and income.
Among the BRIC countries, only Russia has a higher share of billionaires to national income (pushing 20 percent) - and that in a country famous for its oligarchs, latter-day robber barons who emerged during the heady days of former President Boris Yeltsin in the 1990s, when Russia held the dubious moniker of being the "Wild East."
The other important finding emerging from Ms. Gandhi and Mr. Walton's research is that 43 percent of India's billionaires came from sectors that the researchers classify as "rent-thick," that is, those enjoying what economists would consider above-normal profits because the companies possess certain privileges. What is more, these billionaires account for a majority (about 60 percent) of the total wealth of India's billionaires.
The Forbes list of richest Indians, released last week, is full of businessmen and women from "rent-thick" sectors: real estate, construction, infrastructure, media, cement and mining. These are sectors in which the government continues to play a large role, in the form of licenses and other forms of control, and in which there's a presumption of a government-business nexus - or collusion, to use a less flattering term, according to Ms. Gandhi and Mr. Walton.
For example, they contend that "the real estate sector is well known for the large number of 'black' transactions, and the nexus between politicians and realtors has been documented in recent scams."
An obvious inference, although one difficult to prove rigorously, is that the above-normal profits earned in industries like real estate or cement accrue because of the cozy relationship between business and government.
There is some heartening news, though, in the study by Ms. Gandhi and Mr. Walton. According to their analysis, the majority of Indian billionaires are "self-made," and around 40 percent represent wealth that is "inherited and growing," like the Ambani brothers, Mukesh and Anil, sons of the late Dhirubhai Ambani, founder of the family business empire.
Not surprisingly, the self-made billionaires are in fields like information technology, which are offspring of the 1991 economic reform measures, and not holdovers from the era of the "license raj."
Why might this be important? According to research, there is a positive correlation between economic growth and the wealth of self-made billionaires, while there is a negative correlation between growth and inherited wealth. It's impossible to establish a conclusive cause-and-effect relationship, but the finding is at least suggestive of the fact that economies populated by those whose wealth is self-made are more dynamic than those that rely on the perpetuation of existing economic elites and their descendants.
As Jayant Sinha, an investment adviser, and Ashutosh Varshney, a political science professor at Brown University, have argued in a columnin The Financial Times, the current state of the Indian private sector, which they dub "curry capitalism," requires sweeping reforms, intended to ensure that cronyism and corruption are curbed while India's entrepreneurial ethos is given a much-needed boost.
What is more, even in the United States, there is an increasingly urgent debate on whether worsening income and wealth inequality, as captured by the importance of billionaires to the economy and other factors, is helpful or harmful for economic growth, the subject of a recent Times "Room for Debate" feature.
In an era of flagging growth rates and a renewed reform impetus from the incumbent government, the possibility that excessive inequality could be bad for the economy may be the most important lesson to come out of the Forbes billionaire list.
 Vivek Dehejia is an economics professor at Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada, and a writer and commentator on India. You can follow him on Twitter @vdehejia. 

        
A Conversation with: Author Shankkar Aiyar
        
From India Shining to ... India Whining?
        
Below 5 Percent Growth for India, I.M.F. Says
        
A Conversation With: P. Chidambaram
        
A Conversation With: Chief Economic Adviser Raghuram G. Rajan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BRIC COUNTRIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%) Ambani, Mukesh D; Economic Conditions and Trends; India

PERSON: MUKESH AMBANI (72%) Ambani, Mukesh D

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (78%) INDIA (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1258 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: UBS to Cut 10,000 Jobs in Major Overhaul

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The Swiss bank announced a wholesale restructuring of its investment banking division as it reported a third-quarter loss of $2.3 billion related to restructuring costs and charges connected to its own debt. 

 BODY:
 6:26 p.m. | Updated 
LONDON - UBS, the Swiss bank, announced plans on Tuesday to eliminate up to 10,000 jobs and cut costs in a major overhaul that will squeeze its earnings in the short term.
Like many European banks, UBS is dealing with the effects of the sovereign debt crisis and the sluggish European economy. With profits eroding, the Swiss firm wants to reduce its riskier operations and focus on its profitable wealth management group.
A year ago, the bank's chief executive, Sergio P. Ermotti, first announced efforts to pare back the firm's risky trading activity and focus on the wealth management business. Mr. Ermotti said on Tuesday that stricter regulatory capital requirements and continued uncertainty in the global economy had pushed the bank, which is based in Zurich, to hasten its restructuring plans.
"The regulatory environment has become tougher and more demanding," Mr. Ermotti said in an interview. "Parts of the investment banking universe are just no longer commercially sustainable."
The pullback in the firm's investment banking operations follows a number of scandals that have engulfed the division. That includes a $2.3 billion trading loss connected to the activities of a former trader, Kweku M. Adoboli, and potential fines related to the manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor. The bank is working with American and international authorities on the investigations.
Job cuts have already begun. On Tuesday, UBS began to tell some employees that their positions were being eliminated. Over the next two years, UBS plans to reduce its work force by as much as 16 percent, bringing the total employee count worldwide to 54,000. Last year, the bank announced a separate batch of 3,500 job cuts.
The layoffs will be most pronounced in London, where UBS has a sizable investment banking operation. Mr. Ermotti said up to 45 percent of the layoffs, or 4,500 people, would be in London. A further 2,500 job losses would come from its Swiss operations, while the remaining layoffs would be borne by UBS's division in the United States.
The job cuts are part of a broader plan to cut costs at UBS. The latest moves will help reduce expenses by 3.4 billion Swiss francs, or $3.6 billion, by 2015, UBS said in a statement. Added to the bank's previous efforts, UBS expected annual savings of 5.4 billion francs over that period.
Analysts welcomed the restructuring plan, saying UBS's competitors might now be forced to also reduce their investment banking units in response to stricter capital requirements that have reduced the profitability of risky financing dealings.
"We would expect this to kick off further industry restructuring," said Kinner Lakhani, a banking analyst at Citigroup in London.
Shares in UBS rose 5.9 percent in Zurich on Tuesday.
The wholesale changes to the way the bank operates will limit UBS's investment banking activities to those connected to its wealth management and corporate clients.
UBS said it planned to eliminate most of its fixed-income businesses because they had become unprofitable. The smaller investment banking unit would focus on advisory services, research, equities, foreign exchange and precious metals.
Andrea Orcel, who joined UBS last year from Bank of America, will lead the smaller investment banking division, while Carsten Kengeter, the current co-head of the unit, will step down from UBS's executive board to oversee the winding down of the bank's unprofitable investment banking businesses and financial positions.
"We didn't want to wait; the new regulation is not going to disappear," Mr. Ermotti said. "The steps we have taken have given us credibility in the market."
The overhaul will hit the firm's short-term profitability. In the latest quarter, UBS posted a loss of 2.2 billion Swiss francs for the three months ending Sept. 30, citing restructuring costs and charges connected to its own debt. The bank recorded a net profit of 1 billion francs in the period a year earlier.
The firm said it expected a charge of 500 million francs related to layoffs and other costs in the fourth quarter, which would lead to a net loss for that period. In total, restructuring costs will reach 3.3 billion francs by 2015.
UBS said its common equity Tier 1 ratio, a measure of a firm's ability to weather financial shocks, stood at 9.3 percent under the so-called Basel III rules. The bank plans to raise that figure to 11.5 percent by next year.
The bank faces other headwinds. In the latest quarter, pretax profit for its wealth management unit fell 32 percent, to 600 million francs. Costs related to the planned restructuring led to a 2.9 billion franc loss in UBS's investment banking unit, compared with a loss of 650 million francs in the third quarter of 2011. Similarly, pretax profit in its retail and corporate unit fell 40 percent, to 409 million francs.

        
Deutsche Bank Posts $975 Million Profit in Third Quarter
        
Hurricane Preparations on Wall Street, the Social Media Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); EURO CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (51%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Ermotti, Sergio P; Layoffs and Job Reductions; UBS AG; UBS AG|UBS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UBS AG

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%) UBS AG; UBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: Ermotti, Sergio P

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1259 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Mother and Son: Richard Russo Talks About 'Elsewhere'

BYLINE: JOHN WILLIAMS


HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Russo on his decision to write a memoir, the autobiography in his fiction and more. 

 BODY:
Richard Russo's first memoir, "Elsewhere," tells the story of the Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist's loving and difficult relationship with his mother, Jean. Mr. Russo's parents separated when he was a child in upstate New York. Raised by his mother, he served as her emotional wellspring, for better and worse. As Mr. Russo became a professor and a successful novelist, he remained deeply devoted to Jean, bringing her with him to Arizona and then back to the East Coast. In a recent e-mail interview, Mr. Russo discussed his decision to write about his mother, the autobiographical elements of his fiction and more. Below are edited excerpts from the conversation:
 Q. 
Why did you decide to write this book about your mother's life now?
 A. 
In the months after my mother's death, I thought about her constantly, and she was visiting my dreams, as well. All of which suggested there was unfinished business. My last three novels had all featured characters who were puzzled by destiny, asking themselves, "How did I end up here?" Now I found myself puzzling over the same issues with regard to my mother's life and my own. We shared both a genetic (highly obsessive) nature as well as strikingly similar nurture, having grown up in the same small upstate New York mill town. How could our destinies have diverged so radically? It seemed worth investigating.
 Q. 
Your mother "was deeply mystified by how many people apparently wanted to read stories set in the kind of industrial backwaters from which she'd worked so hard to escape." Did she express a lot of reaction to your novels? And what was the reaction like? 
 A. 
My mother's reaction to my novels was, as you might expect, complex. She enjoyed seeing the town that shaped both our lives (Gloversville, N.Y.) through the prism of my imagination. Recognizing her husband (my father) in "Nobody's Fool," she remarked that she was far fonder of him on the page than in real life. But my returning to Gloversville in my fiction troubled her. It meant, I think, that she'd failed in what she saw as her primary duty - to get me the hell away from that place and those people.
 Q. 
It will be tempting for readers familiar with all your work to experience "Elsewhere" as, among other things, a skeleton key to your fiction. As one of those readers, I'm now wondering if your first two novels, "Mohawk" and "The Risk Pool," are your most autobiographical, or are there equal amounts of your own experience in each book?
 A. 
It will please me immensely if readers feel as if they've been granted an insight into a writer's creative process. Like every writer, I'm always being asked where I get my ideas from; well, here's the answer, or part of it. "Mohawk" and "The Risk Pool" are my most literally autobiographical novels, if by autobiography you mean shared facts and data. Still, while there's far more invention in "Bridge of Sighs," I think of it as the novel that most deeply probes who I am, as a man and as a writer.
 Q. 
Is there a particular character in any of your novels that was most strongly based on your mother?
 A. 
Anne Grouse, in "Mohawk," is my mother on a good day - brave, faithful, lovely, determined. Ned Hall's mother in "The Risk Pool" is the same woman on those days when the demons closed in - unhinged, terrified, needy, ill.
 Q. 
You inherited your mother's deeply conflicted feelings about Gloversville. What's the best thing about the place in your opinion?
 A. 
This should be an easy question to answer, but it isn't, because I've spent very little time in Gloversville since 1971. In a sense "Elsewhere" is about a place that doesn't exist anymore. The town itself is real enough, but my firsthand knowledge of it is 40-some years out of date.
 Q. 
Your dad was a frequent gambler but, aside from one stretch you describe, you don't seem to have caught that bug. Is that true, or do you consciously resist the pull of gambling?
 A. 
No, I think (knock on wood) the bug is gone. A few years ago an academic colleague of mine invited me to come to Vegas with him. A tournament-caliber bridge and poker player, he'd always wondered how he'd fare at a table with pros. We arrived in the afternoon and headed to the casino with plans to meet for dinner that evening. After an hour or so of throwing coins into slots, I got bored and returned to my room, thinking I'd take a nap, and there was my friend. He'd won about 500 bucks in the first hour and gotten bored, just like I had. What happens in Vegas, we concluded, didn't happen to us, at least not anymore.
 Q. 
How do you think screenwriting has changed your process of writing fiction or changed the final product of your fiction, if it has?
 A. 
Screenwriting, which demands economy above all else, has made me even more expansive as a fiction writer. I love writing dialogue and putting characters in motion, so for me writing scripts is a lark. But when I return to fiction, I'm free to visit the recesses of my characters' lives that the camera has no access to. It's much more difficult, but also more rewarding.
 Q. 
There's a theme of "moral outrage" in "Elsewhere" about how industries treat the residents of places like Gloversville. Do you have to consciously make those feelings less polemical in your fiction than the way you feel them in real life?
 A. 
I think that theme of moral outrage is also present in "Empire Falls" and "Bridge of Sighs." You can be pretty polemical in a novel. What you have to be careful of is appearing, as author, to intrude upon your narrative. When readers sense a writer pulling strings, then they start thinking of the characters as puppets, not really people. I never want to pull readers out of the dream.
 Q. 
You mention in the book that, as a novelist, you don't consider plot a dirty word. How did you approach plot in nonfiction, given the length and complexity of your relationship with your mother?
 A. 
I think the best memoirs read like novels, which means, among other things, that the writer must decide what fits the narrative arc and what doesn't. The fact that something actually happened doesn't mean it should be included. A memoirist isn't free to invent, but the shape of the story is up to him. He decides - as in a novel - how and where the story begins (near the end, in this case). He also chooses, just as a novelist does, when to summarize and when time should slow down for a dramatic scene.
 Q. 
Did this book get nonfiction out of your system, or did it inspire you to want to write more of it?
 A. 
I never say never, because that's an invitation to the gods to make a fool of you, but "Elsewhere" seems to have satisfied my need to tell that particular kind of truth.

        
The Burden of Justice: Louise Erdrich Talks About 'The Round House'
        
4 Playwrights Among Winners of 2012 Whiting Awards
        
On the Rocks: Benjamin Anastas Talks About 'Too Good to Be True'
        
After Losing Its Sponsor, Literary Prize for Women Will Live On
        
Friends Remember David Foster Wallace at New Yorker Festival

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%) Books and Literature; Elsewhere (Book); Russo, Richard; Writing and Writers; Books

PERSON: Russo, Richard

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1260 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Help - My Daughter Wants to Make Movies

BYLINE: DAN FLESHLER


HIGHLIGHT: Struggling with encouraging creative aspirations in a world that offers a better living to more practical pursuits. 

 BODY:
My daughter's friend wants to be a speech therapist. Another is in an accelerated medical school program. Like my daughter, they will be college seniors this fall. Part of me envies their parents, as their children have a decent chance to earn a living. My daughter, on the other hand, wants to make movies.
Of course I hope she finds a way to live out her dreams and do what she wants to do. But I am not sure how much encouragement to offer, or to what extent supporting her creative ambitions will foster an illusion.
Part of my concern is practical. She's not interested in the commercial film industry, where the odds of earning enough to pay for food and shelter are daunting but not impossible. No, she wants to make documentaries that will change the world, and the odds of sustaining herself in that business seem roughly equivalent to the odds of winning "American Idol." She started taking movie making seriously in the ninth grade. From what I could tell, she had talent that deserved to be encouraged. Help! The aspirational chickens are now coming home to roost.

She doesn't seem to assume that the world owes her a living, like some of her "adultescent" peers. While she scrambles to get a foothold in the film world, she knows that she will probably need to look for day jobs that don't interest her. Several practical options for next year are being discussed. We've told her that she can stay with us after graduation if need be, but we will expect her to do everything possible to find a gig that will enable her to contribute financially to our household, and she has already agreed.
But in this economy, she will be lucky if she lands a part-time job stocking shelves. As long as her scramble to do what she wants continues, she may well need us to give major material support. We can help her, but how long should that last? And even if we make those contributions for just a little while, will we be co-conspirators in a fantasy, rather than responsible parents?
There's more to it than just money. My wife was an aspiring choreographer in New York City after she graduated from college, worked on a few productions in the hours she could spare from her jobs as a hat check girl and a receptionist at an animal hospital. She gave up after two years because, she often says, she "didn't have a trust fund." Eventually, she wound up in the advertising business. I wanted to be a fiction writer, wrote two novels and couldn't get either one published. Eventually, I wound up in public relations and public affairs, keeping my hand in the writing game in my spare time, with some published nonfiction, including one book ... and an assortment of projects that got nowhere.
We've both come to terms with where we are and where we've been. Regret is an inane emotion and we've moved on. But I confess that sometimes I wish that my daughter would take an easier, less risky path because I want her to be spared from hearing the painful whisper that used to recur at the edge of my ears 25 years ago, the one that said, "You keep trying and what do you have to show for it? Who do you think you are? Give up!"
I am well aware that I shouldn't let my past muck up her plans, and am trying not to. But that doesn't prevent my fiercely protective instincts from kicking in. I can't just be an automatic, mindless spigot of cash and encouragement, and naturally my own experiences will affect the advice and material help I offer.
Amidst the angst, though, her situation is also providing positive lessons for both of us. A month ago, the quest to figure out what to say about her creative pursuits prompted me to look at my old manuscripts, and to take stock. It helped to convince me that there is still time to create good prose in the second half-century of my life. Writers need to write, and I resolved to keep at it. I also told her that when she became middle-aged, I hoped she wouldn't look back on her life with regret because she had refrained from trying very hard to be the person that she wanted to be.
I told her that, upon reflection, I didn't have those regrets. And I restrained myself from disclosing the fantasy that part of me harbors, the one in which she cheerfully announces that she has changed her mind and wants to be an accountant or an orthodontist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (62%); WRITERS (62%); VETERINARY SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012



1261 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2114 words

HEADLINE: Two Views of a Superstorm in Climate Context

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A climate campaigner and a science writer discuss hurricanes, history and the greenhouse effect. 

 BODY:
 4:38 p.m. | Updated with more scientists' input at the end. } 
In the hours before Hurricane Sandy thundered ashore, igniting power stations and Queens neighborhoods and darkening urban and rural communities alike, I filed two pieces for Dot Earth. The first, "The #Frankenstorm in Climate Context," was on the storm in the context of climate history and the science pointing to greenhouse-driven climate change. The second was on the impact of our tribal nature on climate communication, including my own.
Yesterday, as the winds here in the Hudson Valley rose but before my second piece was posted (and before our power and Internet access were cut as a tree fell down the road), I received an e-mail message from Dan Miller, an engineer and venture capitalist with deep climate concerns, whose name will be familiar to some here because he helped James Hansen, the NASA climate scientist, craft "Game Over for Climate," a May Op-Ed article in The Times.
Miller strongly disagreed with my discussion of the science revealing past patterns of extreme storminess in the Northeast and the science pointing to a rising human influence on some (but not all) kinds of extreme weather. The exchange is worth posting here now (Miller gave permission), to give you a sense of how intelligent people with related, if not identical, goals can interpret a large body of science very differently: 
 MILLER:
I just read your piece on Hurricane Sandy, where you make the claim (or at least imply) that it is difficult to attribute the storm to climate change. You point to studies that show that hurricanes have intensified 4 times since the last ice age with a period of about 3000 years.
Your intent is to imply that the current record-breaking storm may be due to natural variation rather than man-made climate change (or at least it's hard to tell the difference). As you know, "The climate has changed before!" is one of the myths that climate change deniers repeat the most. Of course, the fact that climate change has changed before is, itself, not a myth. However, the implications of the claim that the current changes we are observing are not man-made and/or will not be dangerous are myths.
Do you really think the fact that waters are warmer and atmospheric moisture content is higher now due to man-made global warming (not to mention the "blocking high" over Greenland due to Arctic climate change) may be less of an influence on Hurricane Sandy than some other currently unobserved changes to our climate that occurred 3000 years ago?
I have a prepared a Climate Change Briefing for Policy makers at the request of a congressman which I have attached for your review [available here]. On the last page of the document I address the "But the climate has changed before!" myth. Please let me know if you have any questions, comments, or suggestions about the briefing.
I also refer you to a piece I wrote long ago comparing climate change to the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster. In that piece I point out that NASA managers asked Thiokol engineers to first prove that the shuttle would blow up in order to scrub the launch. Of course, that is the wrong question! They should have asked for assurance that the flight would be safe in order to launch. Your piece on Hurricane Sandy (and others, like your response to Jim Hansen's Op Ed on the increase in extremely hot summers) are from the point of view of the NASA managers deciding to launch the Challenger. While there is a plethora of evidence suggesting that the path we are on is fraught with peril, you seem to want to focus on the uncertainties in the details of the evidence, rather than taking the prudent course.
When you have the largest Atlantic storm in recorded history that is being feed by unusually warm ocean waters (+5°F) and is being steered in a very unusual direction by a "3-sigma" blocking higher over Greenland after the largest Arctic sea ice melt in human history, you might want to consider the "steroid" hypothesis a bit more.

REVKIN: 
First, my only "intent" is to follow the science and assess where it leads in terms of policy and personal responses.
I'd have to point out that you're missing the point of my piece, and the significance of "Millennial-scalestorminess variability in the northeastern United States during the Holoceneepoch," the 2002 paper, coauthored by Realclimate's Eric Steig, that I focus on.
The paper created a Holocene-length record of extreme precipitation, as derived from lakebed sediments across the Northeast. So it captured extreme inland rainfall from tropical systems (as in this system, Irene, Floyd, and Vermont's epic 1927 gullywasher) as well as nor-easters and any other rare events. Second, the authors predict we're in an era of rising storminess of that kind in the Northeast, via ocean cycles. There's more in the paper conclusion below.
So it's fine to talk about sea level and surge risk from hurricanes, but not fine to describe the weirdness factor in this hybrid system as somehow significantly shaped (emphasis on "significantly") by greenhouse forcing. And that's what some are doing.
Here's the conclusion:
 Climate models suggest that human activities, specifically the emission of atmospheric greenhouse gases, may lead to increases in the frequency of severe storms in certain regions of the Northern Hemisphere. However, the existence of natural variability in storminess confounds reliable detection of anthropogenic effects. 
 During the past ~600 years, New England storminess appears to have been increasing naturally. This rhythm in storm frequency may explain some of the recently observed increases in extreme precipitation events. If the pattern of millennial-scale variability that we documented through the Holocene persists into the future, New England storminess would continue to increase for the next ~900 years. Because climate synopses compiled from instrumental records cannot distinguish underlying natural increases in storminess from anthropogenic effects, detected increases in contemporary storminess may not be a reliable indicator of human-induced climate change. 
 Miller: 
Your response...follows the same line of thinking that I was addressing in my email to you. Yes, there has been more and less "storminess" in the past. Yes, we may even be in for a "natural" increase in storminess over the next several hundred years. But mentioning that in the context of Hurricane Sandy is an attempt (or at least has the effect) to minimize the concern about the documented changes to the climate we have already made and the predicted catastrophic consequences of staying on the fossil emissions path we are on. It is seeding doubt at a time when action is needed.
We have increased CO2 levels in the atmosphere by about 40% in the last 100 years (mostly the last 50 years) on the way to doubling later this century. The Earth has warmed up about 0.8°C (1.4°F) already due to the extra greenhouse gases we put in the atmosphere and it would have warmed even more if we weren't also putting up smoke that reflects sunlight. This warming has increased Earth's energy radiation to space, but the excess greenhouse gases are still trapping more heat than the Earth is radiating to space. This "energy imbalance" is about 0.6 watts/square meter. This doesn't sound like much but it is equivalent to 400,000 Hiroshima atomic bombs going off every day (see my briefing for the math).
Extremely Hot Summers ("3-sigma" events) have increased 50X (5000%) in the past 50 years. There is 4% more water vapor in the atmosphere than 50 years ago. Average ocean temperatures have increased (90% of global warming energy goes into the ocean). The Arctic sea ice just reached its lowest level in thousands of years and in a few years you will be able to sail a boat to the North Pole for the first time in human history.
These documented impacts all effect the strength, scale, and direction of Hurricane Sandy. No one is saying that a Hurricane Sandy would not have happened if not for climate change. But I believe there is little doubt that the record-breaking scale and potential destructiveness of Sandy is due in large part to the amplifying effects of warmer ocean temperatures, higher atmospheric moisture content, and unusual Arctic weather patterns.
Like the Space Shuttle Challenger's NASA managers, waiting for scientific "proof" of disaster, rather than taking prudent (and economical beneficial) steps to avert disaster, only guarantees that our children will face catastrophic consequences.
Some of the points Miller makes about Arctic influences on Hurricane Sandy and the resulting super nor'easter are explored by Kevin Trenberth and other scientists in my post on the storm and climate science. Have a look. Also check yesterday's post on late-season hurricanes and global warming by Eric Berger of the Houston Chronicle for more on the science.
And of course I've never bought into the "wait until there's proof" approach to human-driven climate change, which -- as I've stressed since 2007 -- is more a challenge of risk management amid substantial and persistent uncertainty than a problem resolved by amassing scientific proof.
I still like how Carl Wunsch of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology summarized things in my 2007 article, "A New Middle Stance Emerges in Debate over Climate" (of course that article prompted lots of slingsandarrows, too):
"Climate change presents a very real risk," said Carl Wunsch, a climate and oceans expert at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "It seems worth a very large premium to insure ourselves against the most catastrophic scenarios. Denying the risk seems utterly stupid. Claiming we can calculate the probabilities with any degree of skill seems equally stupid."
If you could enter this discussion, what would you ask either of us? I'll alert Miller as questions come in (and I'll answer those directed at me).
 4:38 p.m. | Updated | I read Mark Fischetti's piece on global warming and hurricanes in Scientific American just now, which points to a recent PNAS study finding "a statistically significant trend in the frequency of large surge events" from tropical cyclones in the Atlantic.
The same paper was discussed in my Sunday post, and when I reached out to other scientists, it didn't get a very promising reception. Both Tom Knutson and Gabriel Vecchi, veteran hurricane-climate researchers for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, offered detailed critiques that I added as comments on Sunday. Comments are easy to miss, so here are excerpts and links:

Knutson: 
On inspection, I am cautious about making too much of this result, as it appears to be a case of marginal significance for several reasons:
1) The start date in 1923 is a relatively low period in landfalling and basin-wide hurricane/or tropical storm time series with relatively higher activity in the late 1800s. This can be seen for example in Fig. 3 of this web page that Gabe Vecchi and I have.
Our experience is that starting a trend in a relatively low point of a slowly fluctuating time series can sometimes lead to findings of statistical significance which don't hold up as the record is further extended (e.g. extended further back in time or new years added on the end). [ Read the rest .]
 Vecchi: 
This is an interesting paper, but I share the concerns that Tom has raised. In addition, although they have shown a correlation between their surge index and measures of hurricane activity, it is far from a 1:1 relationship (correlations of 0.5-0.6 indicate that this index shares about 25-36% of its variance with direct hurricane measures, leaving over 60% to be explained). As can be seen in the plot if the two indices in 2005, the biggest storm surge indices do not match the biggest ACE events (and vice-versa). That makes sense, since there are many factors that impact storm surge, of which intensity is only one. For example, the trajectory, speed and size of the storm all influence storm surge. Therefore, one needs to be wary about over-interpreting these results. Peak surge has shown a trend, but what does that tell us about storms themselves? What is behind this trend?
I find the correlation to SST a bit of a non-sequitur given that the factors responsible for the surge trend are not clear. Is this sea level rise? Stronger storms? Storms with different tracks? Starting in 1923 adds to the problems in interpreting the trends. [Read the rest.]

        
On 'Frankenstorms,' Climate Science and 'Reverse Tribalism'
        
The #Frankenstorm in Climate Context
        
Lessons From Sandy, a Brewing Superstorm
        
What's the Best Climate Question to Debate?
        
Polar Bear Science and the Spin Cycle

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); WEATHER (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); SPACE EXPLORATION (88%); POWER PLANTS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); SPACECRAFT (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%); EMISSIONS (60%); VENTURE CAPITAL (54%) Air Pollution; Arctic Regions; Challenger (Space Shuttle); Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Hansen, James E; Hurricane Sandy (2012); Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Miller, Dan; Northeastern States (US); Oceans and Seas; activism; Climate Change; communication; disasters; History; Weather

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%) Massachusetts Institute of Technology

PERSON: Hansen, James E; Miller, Dan

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) ARCTIC (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GREENLAND (79%) Arctic Regions; Northeastern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012



1262 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 3002 words

HEADLINE: Teaching Hurricane Sandy: Ideas and Resources

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK


HIGHLIGHT: Ways to bring this enormous storm and its aftermath into science, history, math, journalism, language arts, media studies and civics classrooms. How are you teaching about Hurricane Sandy? 

 BODY:
 Updated | Nov. 12 
As New York City and the East Coast begin to recover from Hurricane Sandy, we offer some ideas for responding to the storm and its aftermath with students. We will continue to update this post. 
For live updates, check here. For a quick overview, consult the Times interactive "Assessing the Damage From Hurricane Sandy" which reported on Oct. 30:
More than six million customers lost power Monday as Hurricane Sandy felled trees, downed power lines and flooded substations. The storm led to power failures in at least 17 states, including more than a million customers in Pennsylvania and New Jersey and about 660,000 in New York City. Roughly a quarter million customers lost power in Manhattan alone after a fiery explosion at a substation on East 14th Street, leaving nearly the entire island eerily dark south of 34th Street. Con Edison officials called the power failures "the largest storm related outage in our history."
Below, some ways to bring Hurricane Sandy into the classroom. Please tell us how you'll be addressing it. We want to collect ideas from classrooms around the region. 
 Images and Graphics as a Starting Point for Response: 
Use the various images (including the photos sent in by Times readers), videos and graphics available on the Times site and elsewhere as a starting point to have students grapple with this storm and its scope. (Update: Nov. 1: the Times Topics page on Sandy has links to much more multimedia.)
You might post the images around the classroom, gallery-style, or project them on a whiteboard, then ask students to respond in writing or in a class discussion; have them work in groups to raise questions for further inquiry; or discuss as a class what individuals and groups can do to respond to this disaster and its aftermath. 
You might then choose among the many ideas below to take the conversation further. 
 Update: Nov. 12: Surviving Disasters as a School Community 
Editors at Teaching Tolerance reached us just after Hurricane Sandy, and we talked about what school communities can do to recover together from disasters and tragedies of many kinds, whether hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, terrorism, the deaths of individual students through accidents or violence or anything else. 
They have just published a piece called "The Road to Disaster Recovery" that links to many Times and Learning Network pieces, and that suggests ideas from their teacher network for coming together and healing after an event like Sandy. We welcome your thoughts, too. Please post them below. 
 Deadly Damage: 
Read "Tracking the Storm," ongoing Times coverage about all the damage Hurricane Sandy has caused up and down the Eastern Seaboard, including many deaths, millions of power failures (see video of the Manhattan Con Ed explosion on Oct. 29, above) the crane dangling over West 57th street in Manhattan, the patients who had to be evacuated from local hospitals and much more.
What stories, images or news items are most compelling, meaningful, moving or important to you? Why? Have students read this and other news reports and choose one aspect of the storm to learn about in more detail. You might then have them report their findings to each other jigsaw-style. 
We also have two related Student Opinion questions, What Are Your Experiences With Severe Weather? and How Do You Help? to which we invite students to post their thoughts. 
 Hurricane Science and Math: 
What is a hurricane? How does one form? Where are they found? Here is an overview and lesson from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and here are their general hurricane education resources. This simple hurricane game might also help students think about the factors that influence a storm's intensity.
Then, explore the wealth of available weather data. Check out the path of Hurricane Sandy and compare it to the paths of other recent hurricanes. How do average wind speeds change with respect to distance to land? How quickly do storms dissipate once they make landfall? Estimate Hurricane Sandy's total rainfall using this graph, or compare and contrast the different water levels along the coast using this map, both from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. 
You can also find nine different lessons on hurricane anatomy, wind patterns, air pressure, heat transfer and more at the Science Education Resource Center at Carleton College. 
 Hurricane History: 
Use this slide show of New York area hurricane history to learn about local hurricane history, or use the NOAA Hurricanes in History page to learn about those nationwide. How does Hurricane Sandy compare?
Contrast Sandy with other hurricanes in terms of storm tracks, damage caused, economic effects, impact on daily life or any other criteria. Students might then create an infographic showing the data visually.
To see other Times and Learning Network content about previous storms, including a whole collection on Hurricane Katrina, with links to reporting from 2005 as well as reports from the five-year anniversary in 2010, see our collection Teaching and Learning About Hurricanes.
 A Late-October Surprise: Hurricane Sandy and Election 2012 
Next Tuesday is Election Day, and Hurricane Sandy has thrown a wrench into the final sprint to the finish by disrupting the campaigns and early voting, and by putting a new issue on the table for voters: disaster response. 
Read "Storm Pushes Presidential Race From Spotlight" and discuss any of the following questions:

        
How long should the candidates suspend their traditional campaigning and fund-raising to honor the hardship that millions of people are facing in the storm's aftermath?
        
Will the storm provide President Obama with a late-game opportunity to appear presidential and in control? Will Mitt Romney be able to quickly resume his critique of the president's policies?
        
Will the federal government prove itself capable of providing relief in multiple states? Will federal disaster relief become a new issue in the campaign for the final week? 
        
New Jersey's Republican Governor, Chris Christie, has praised the president and the federal disaster response several times so far - after spending the past several weeks attacking the president's record on behalf of the Romney campaign. According to the article, some Republicans privately expressed frustration with Mr. Christie. You can read "In Wake of Storm, Christie Breaks From Attacks to Praise Obama" for more details and a video. 
        
Do disasters trump politics? Do they help politicians reach across the aisle? Or should politicians always be campaigning?
Read "Hurricane Sandy Likely to Be Biggest of Late-October Surprises" to learn about other recent hiccups in the final weeks of past presidential elections. Then, you might write an entry for 2012 describing this late-October surprise, and how it might be remembered in history.
 Social Media Literacy: 
During the storm, news and images circulated quickly via social media. (Poynter reported, for instance, that Instagram users were posting 10 Hurricane Sandy pictures every second at one point.) 
Reports that the New York Stock Exchange was underwater and that sharks were swimming in front yards in New Jersey spread widely. 
This piece from The Atlantic, "InstaSnopes: Sorting the Real Sandy Photos From the Fakes," explores the stories and photos that circulated, helping readers understand which were real and which weren't. 
Before you read it, ask yourself, in a world where news can be reported by anyone with a cellphone, how do you decide what is true? What questions should you ask to find out? What personal rules might you develop to decide what news you post and when you post it? What harm might be done by not following those rules? 
For instance, do you think this photograph of a carousel in Brooklyn, circulated on Twitter, is real or fake? 
How about this Twitter message?
Flood waters rush in to the Hoboken PATH station through an elevator shaft. #Sandy http://t.co/QosgFyOI
- Port Authority NY&NJ (@PANYNJ)30 Oct 12
Read the Atlantic article to find out.
 Economic Impact: 
Investigate the economic consequences of the hurricane. How much revenue is lost when a Starbucks closes for the day? Or when 13,000 flights are canceled? Or when casinos shut down? 
Do some research and make your estimates, and then read "Awaiting the Storm's Price Tag" to explore more questions about the cost of the storm, and the cleanup. What predictions can you make about the storm's economic effects in the coming days and weeks?
 Update: Nov. 2: The article "Estimate of Economic Losses Now Up to $50 Billion" describes the unprecedented impact of the storm on a variety of industries, especially given the millions still without power. 
 Hurricanes and Climate Change: 
What is the current thinking on what extent climate change leads to more hurricanes? You might consult the following sources for more information, then debate the question with your class, or create infographics to explain what you find. (Updated Nov. 1 with more resources):

        
Are Humans to Blame? Science Is Out
        
Op-Ed | Will Climate Get Some Respect Now?
        
Bloomberg Backs Obama, Citing Climate Change
        
"The #Frankenstorm in Climate Context" from the Dot Earth blog
        
"Hurricanes and Climate Change," from the National Center for Atmospheric Research
        
"Global Warming and Hurricanes," from the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory
        
"Heating Up the Ocean," from the Environmental Visualization Laboratory
 Storms and Political Leadership: 
How should leaders respond to anticipated storms? They often get criticized afterward if the storm is weaker or stronger than what political leaders anticipated. With Hurricane Sandy, leaders rose to the storm challenge in different ways.
Have students read "Three Leaders, All Comfortable, Put Three Different Faces on Storm Response" and decide which leader - Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg or Gov. Chris Christie - they think had the best initial response to Hurricane Sandy. What criteria are they using to make their judgment?
 Another Chance for FEMA: 
The unwelcome arrival of Hurricane Sandy provides the Federal Emergency Management Agency with a golden opportunity to boost its reputation, seven years after its much-criticized response to Hurricane Katrina. What did the agency get wrong in 2005, and how will it do this time? 
Students can read this story, research Hurricane Katrinaand FEMA in the archives of The New York Times, and follow ongoing news coverage of the federal government's handling of Hurricane Sandy. Then students can give FEMA their own report card with a letter grade, from A to F, including comments on its performance compared to previous disasters.
Update: Nov. 5 | The Room for Debate blog asks, Do We Really Need FEMA? Six experts answer.
 Nuclear Worries: 
Experts are keeping a close eye on water levels at nuclear power plants affected by Hurricane Sandy, declaring an alert at the Oyster Creek plant in Toms River, N.J., after floodwaters came within one foot of disrupting normal cooling processes. 
Just how dangerous is this situation? And can more be done to protect plants from disruptive flooding? Read these stories on measures taken at one Nebraska nuclear power plant in 2011 and safetyreviews following the 2011 Fukushima disaster in Japan. Students can then write a list of safety recommendations for local officials.
 The Psychology of Disaster: 
Thousands of people fled their homes this week as Hurricane Sandy approached, but others didn't heed the warnings or evacuation orders. Why do some people evacuate while others stay behind? 
Read these accounts by people who went to emergency shelters or stayed home, and tabulate a list of their explanations for heeding or ignoring evacuation orders. (Update: Dec. 20: Though the direct links above to people's stories of heeding or ignoring evacuation warnings no longer seem to be working, you can find them by scrolling through the coverage of Hurricane Sandy for Oct. 28 in this Times interactive.) 
Then view this study and podcast on residents' evacuation decisions during Hurricane Katrina, along with related research on how people react to fires. Students can then analyze whether the research backs up evacuation decisions they learned about during Hurricane Sandy.
 Update: Nov. 5 | How Do We Plan for Next Time? 
In 2009,engineers warned that a storm like Sandy was all but inevitable. In September of this year, The Times reported, "New York Is Lagging as Seas and Risks Rise, Critics Warn."
Now that Sandy has come and gone, many are talking about how to better prepare. In "Protecting the City, Before Next Time," Alan Feuer writes:
If, as climate experts say, sea levels in the region have not only gradually increased, but are also likely to get higher as time goes by, then the question is: What is the way forward? Does the city continue to build ever-sturdier and ever-higher sea walls? Or does it accept the uncomfortable idea that parts of New York will occasionally flood and that the smarter method is to make the local infrastructure more elastic and better able to recover? 
Have students read this piece and consider the ideas and illustrations proposed, then decide which they think will work best. (They might also read the Room for Debate post that asks six experts, Should New York Build Sea Gates?) What further questions for research do these articles raise?
Update | Nov. 7: We now have a lesson plan, "Manage the Damage: Preparing for Natural Disasters," that takes these ideas much further.
 Update: Nov. 5 | Charting the Far-Reaching Effects of the Storm 
When an event like Superstorm Sandy occurs, it is the job of journalists to trace the ripple effects on everything from daily life to politics, the economy, the arts, and everything else. 
Challenge students to go through The Times and find as many stories related to the effects of Sandy as they can. What stories can they predict they will see in the coming days and weeks? Why? Which of these stories echo something happening locally that you might use as a model for reporting for your own community or school paper? 
(Related: One of our most popular posts last year helps students understand the common journalistic "text type" of cause and effect.)
 Update: Nov. 5 | Schools and Teachers Respond 
On Nov. 2 we published a blog post from the New Jersey classroom with whom we collaborate for our weekly Common Core Practice feature. In it teacher Sarah Gross describes what life has been like without power and mourning the loss of the life they knew on the Jersey shore.
On Nov. 5, students in New York City returned to school. This article describes both the comforts and difficulties of re-entry. And on this site, Youth Voices, you can read what some New York City students wrote on their first day back. 
How did Sandy impact your school community? What are you doing about it? Please comment below. We'd love to collect your ideas, resources, stories and thoughts for possible publication later this month. 
 When Waters Recede, Projects Will Surface: 
In the wake of the hurricane, many teachers are apt to reconsider their curriculum to address this major event. If you are planning long-term, disaster-related, project-based learning, look for opportunities for students to explore open-ended questions and then share their work in authentic ways. Here are some ideas:
- After the devastating earthquake hit Japan in 2011, teachers from several schools across the country collaborated on writing projects to help their students make sense of what they and their families had experienced. In this blog post, Kim Cofino from Yokohama International School describes the evolution of a student publishing project called QuakeStories that used blogs, a wiki, and pen-pal exchanges to help students capture their first draft of history. The project offers a model for disaster recovery projects with students in the role of historians and storytellers.
-Using ePals, a free online platform for classroom collaboration, teachers can connect students with peers in other locations to discuss and learn about natural disasters in different parts of the world. An existing project, A Worldwide Look at Natural Disasters, makes use of multimedia resources from National Geographic. The project culminates with students presenting disaster preparedness plans for their regions and answering the question, "How ready are we?" 
You can also use ePals to start your own collaborative project. For example, you might have students from different regions interview survivors of past disasters for a project that explores themes of resilience. (For more on how communities respond to disasters, read "How to Weather a Hurricane.")
-Students who live outside the region affected by the storm may feel motivated to help. Put their critical thinking and empathy to work in a project that asks them to consider, "How can we do the most good?" In this case, students could research and evaluate different responses to humanitarian crises. For example, is it better to give money or "stuff" (like blankets or canned food)? 
Students could then identify and evaluate different aid organizations and select one to support with an awareness campaign. (For more ideas, read the post, "What Causes Should Philanthropic Groups Finance?") 
 Update | Nov. 6 Here is a list of hurricane recovery and volunteer resources.
To find Learning Network and Times resources about hurricanes in general, see our collection, Teaching and Learning About Hurricanes.
Please tell us, below, how you're taking on this historic and devastating event in the classroom. 
 Written and produced by Katherine Schulten with contributions from Michael Gonchar, Suzie Boss, Jennifer Cutraro, Alison Fromme, Patrick Honner and Tom Marshall. 

        
Manage the Damage: Preparing for Natural Disasters
        
Musicians Rock for Sandy Relief
        
Common Core Practice | Life on a Coastline
        
Poetry Pairing | 'I used to love the run-up to a storm'
        
When Have You Spoken Out About Something You Felt Had to Change?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HURRICANE SANDY (94%); HURRICANES (91%); POWER FAILURES (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (77%); TORNADOES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); TERRORISM (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (72%); FILM (70%) Disasters and Emergencies (Des);; Hurricane Sandy (2012); hurricanes and tropical storms; Civics; Current Events; Data Analysis and Probability; Digital Media and Culture; Earth Science; Environment and Society; Environmental Issues; Geography; Human Systems; Journalism; Journalistic Writing; Lesson Plans; Mathematics; Media Studies; Natural Disasters; Photojournalism; Physical Systems; Practical Math; Science; Social Media; Social Studies; State and Local Government; Teaching with The New York Times; Weather; Witnessing History

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (57%); LEARNING NETWORK (51%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2012



1263 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: A Closer Look at the American 'Pivot'

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: A deft new documentary, "The Pivot," explores and explains the enhanced U.S. emphasis on the Asia-Pacific region. American diplomats say the strategy is not about "containing" China, but that's not the prevailing view on the mainland. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - The United States still has tens of thousands of troops based in Europe, a full withdrawal from Afghanistan is two years away, Iran's nuclear program appears to be a crisis-in-waiting and the Middle East remains highly combustible. But as a senior American diplomat says, "the history of the 21st century is going to be written in the Asia-Pacific region," which presents the opportunity for "an absolutely unique American role."
The diplomat, Kurt M. Campbell, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, is interviewed in a deft new documentary, "The Pivot," which explains and explores the enhanced U.S. emphasis on Asia - militarily, diplomatically and economically. 
The film, available here, is the latest in an excellent series of documentaries by the former CNN journalist Mike Chinoy, a senior fellow at the at the University of Southern California.
The documentary features interviews with a range of American diplomats - current and former - and scholars with long experience in Asia. Some offer their thoughts on what the upcoming election might mean for U.S. foreign policy in the region.
The Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, has a deep foreign policy bench, according to Richard Armitage, deputy secretary of state under President George W. Bush, and those advisers would likely ensure that "Asia policy would be relatively untouched," Mr. Armitage said.
Some analysts fear that Mr. Romney's oft-stated promise to call out China for manipulating its currency will not bode well for bilateral relations. Such a move would mean "we're going to have a few years of very tough ties," said Kenneth Lieberthal, a China scholar and senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and co-author of "Bending History: Barack Obama's Foreign Policy."
A former Chinese diplomat in Washington, Jia Xiudong, said in the film that he and other Chinese officials have been privately told to ignore the heated, anti-China rhetoric of this and previous campaigns. But if Mr. Romney is elected and carries through on his promise on the currency charge, it would be "the equivalent of declaring war, a trade war," Mr. Jia said.
"Don't treat China as an enemy," Mr. Jia advised. "Otherwise you end up with an enemy in China."
"The fundamental reality is we're the two largest economies in the world for decades to come," said Mr. Lieberthal. "We had better figure out how to make this work between the two of us."
The administration, which has proclaimed Mr. Obama to be "our first Pacific president," originally employed the word "pivot" to describe its new focus on the region. But U.S. diplomats now avoid the term. 
"To some ears it has a bit of a military ring to it," said Jeffrey Bader, a former senior director on the National Security Council in the Obama administration who is a senior fellow at Brookings. 
So "pivot" is out. "Rebalancing" is in.
Whatever it's called, the new approach essentially involves deploying 60 percent of U.S. naval forces in the Pacific, a change from the previous 50-50 split between the Atlantic and Pacific commands. Six aircraft carriers will be part of the Pacific fleet.
Mr. Jia, the former diplomat, said many in China are convinced that the pivot is intended "to contain China." And Mr. Chinoy, a veteran China hand, says that interpretation has become "a widely accepted narrative" on the mainland.
Mr. Campbell, however, rejects the containment notion, calling it "simplistic and wrong." 
Mr. Armitage rejects that view: "When the administration says it's not about China, it's all about China. China knows this."
The pivot also involves bolstering alliances and friendships with an array of Asian nations, including India, and especially those that have been at odds with China in recent months - Japan, the Philippines, Vietnam and South Korea. 
Multilateral institutions also have received more of Washington's attention, like the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the East Asia Summit. The next East Asia meeting is scheduled to be held next month in Phnom Penh, and Mr. Obama is expected to attend.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WRITERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%) Campbell, Kurt; Obama, Barack; Defense and Military Forces; Documentary Films and Programs; International Relations; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Defense and Military Forces; United States International Relations; United States Politics and Government; China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; United States; Featured; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Campbell, Kurt; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); ASIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); HONG KONG (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1264 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: The Real Barrier to Tax Reform

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Ending the most popular tax deductions seems politically impossible and doesn't leave many loopholes to be closed, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
Across the political spectrum, it is generally accepted that the basic goal of tax reform should be to broaden the tax base by eliminating tax preferences and lowering statutory tax rates. It is also believed that the principal barrier to such a reform is the resistance of special interests to the elimination of any particular preference that benefits them. But what if, to paraphrase Pogo, the special interest is us?
In all my years in Washington, I have never met anyone, even a professional lobbyist, who thought she was a special interest. That's always somebody else, someone selfish whose interests are contrary to the national interest. Everyone always says, and may even believe, that whatever special deal they want or wish to preserve in the budget or the tax code is for the benefit of a broad segment of society or the economy.

At least insofar as tax expenditures are concerned, this is basically true. What follows are the top 10 special provisions of the tax code that reduce revenues, with the estimated annual revenue loss.
It's easy to make a case for each of these tax preferences. The exclusion for health insurance lowers the cost of it and encourages employers to provide it; deductibility of mortgage interest lowers the cost of owning a home; preferences for pensions help people save for retirement; lower tax rates on capital gains and accelerated depreciation encourage investment; the deduction for charitable contributions helps churches, hospitals and groups like the Salvation Army; the deduction for state and local taxes reduces the burden of such taxes; and the exclusion for interest on state and local government bonds reduces the cost of borrowing to build schools and roads.
The exclusion for imputed rent needs a little more explanation. If you live in your own home you are wearing two hats: landlord and renter. In effect, you are paying rent to yourself, which is a flow of income, conceptually, that is not taxed. To understand this, imagine that you trade houses with someone who has the same identical house; your mortgage is the same but now you are paying rent to each other. Nothing has changed except that the implicit rent has become explicit.
These and other tax expenditures enjoy wide support, and it is almost impossible to imagine them being abolished, even in return for lower statutory tax rates. For one thing, the value of these deductions and exclusions is capitalized into prices. It is commonly estimated that elimination of the mortgage interest deduction would lower home prices by about 15 percent. So if you are a homeowner, you would lose out even if your tax payments remained the same under a tax reform that eliminated the deductibility of mortgage interest.
Keep in mind also that the political forces supporting the status quo are very strong and already organizing to keep existing deductions and exclusions, and even expand them.
On Oct. 25, David Liniger, chairman of RE/MAX, one of the nation's largest real estate brokers, wrote an open letter to President Obama and Mitt Romney, insisting that the deduction for mortgage interest not be touched. Said Mr. Liniger:
One proposal being considered that really shocks most of us in real estate is the elimination or reduction of the mortgage interest deduction. This is not simply a loophole for the wealthy. It has been a mainstay of the middle class for many years, and by promoting homeownership it promotes a strong economy. Over 75 percent of homeowners utilize the deduction over the time of their ownership. Even a gradual elimination gives pause to many potential homeowners. This is the wrong approach at the wrong time.
That same day, a coalition of charitable organizations sent letters to President Obama and Mr. Romney warning against any undermining of the deduction for charitable contributions. The letters are slightly different, but both said this:
The charitable deduction is different than other itemized deductions in that it encourages individuals to give away a portion of their income to those in need. It rewards a selfless act, and it encourages taxpayers to give more funds to charities than they would otherwise have given. Data suggests that for every dollar a donor gets in tax relief for his or her donation, the public typically receives three dollars of benefit. No other tax provision generates that kind of positive public impact.
Of course, if one receives a reward for the donation it's not entirely selfless. And for those donating appreciated property, which is often appraised at far above market prices, the charitable contributions deduction might even make them money.
That point aside, it's important to remember that the deduction for mortgage interest and charitable contributions are not as egalitarian as their promoters would have us believe. For starters, they are only available to those who have a positive income tax liability - that leaves out Mr. Romney's 47 percent - and only to those who itemize. Those using the standard deduction get no benefit, no matter how much they throw in the collection plate on Sunday. Those who own their homes without a mortgage, which includes many older people, save no taxes from the mortgage interest deduction.
Not surprisingly, the mortgage interest deduction is very popular. According to a New York Times/CBS News poll, 63 percent of people say they think it is very important, 30 percent think it is somewhat important, 3 percent think it is not very important and 2 percent say it is not important at all. President Obama and Mr. Romney have promised to protect the mortgage interest deduction.
The problem is that when you take one popular deduction off the table, that becomes the best possible argument for keeping the next most popular deduction or exclusion and so on.
Taking the top 10 off the table means taking more than 70 percent of the dollar value of all tax expenditures off the table, thus greatly limiting the potential for tax reform to lower rates.

        
Why Tax Policy Assumes People Are Richer Than They Think
        
The Tax Reform Act of 1986: Should We Do It Again?
        
Republicans Champion 'Voluntary Taxes'
        
How to Really Simplify the Tax Code
        
Tax Code Not Aligned With Basic Principles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (93%); TAX REFORM (93%); TAX LAW (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); CHARITIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LOBBYING (78%); WRITERS (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); BONDS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); DEPRECIATION (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); CHARITABLE GIVING (68%); RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); HOME PRICES (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (62%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (62%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%) Bruce Bartlett; capital gains; charitable deductions; charities; Daily Economist; deductions; home-mortgage deduction; Income Tax; mortgage-interest deduction; Municipal Bonds; real estate; tax deductions; taxes; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Office of Management and Budget (US); Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%) Office of Management and Budget (US)

PERSON: RON PAUL (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1265 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: Markets Remain Shut

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Stock markets will be closed Tuesday for a second day, as New York deals with the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. | Over all, the storm could cause economic losses of up to $20 billion, according to the catastrophe risk modeling firm Eqecat. | UBS announces plans to cut up to 10,000 jobs as part of a major restructuring of its investment banking division. 

 BODY:
MARKETS REMAIN SHUT | Stock markets will be closed Tuesday for a second day, as New York deals with the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. While the New York Stock Exchange currently plans to be back in business on Wednesday, it may have to rely entirely on electronic trading, the exchange said late Monday, adding that the physical floor had not been damaged by the storm. This is the first time since 1888 that weather has forced markets to go dark for consecutive days.
The effect of the market closure on trading could be limited, according to Larry Tabb of the research firm Tabb Group. Still, it means that some companies, like Restoration Hardware, may have to delay their initial public offerings. For the exchanges, the stoppage could translate into $1 million of lost transaction fees each day, a relatively minor amount, according to Richard Repetto, an analyst at Sandler O'Neill & Partners.
Over all, the storm could cause economic losses ranging from $10 billion to $20 billion, according to the catastrophe risk modeling firm Eqecat, The New York Times reports. Insurers could be responsible for covering $5 billion to $10 billion in property and casualty claims.
The New York City area continues to deal with flooding and power outages. Cars were seen floating on Wall Street on Monday. At the new luxury high-rise at 157 West 57th Street, where top-floor apartments have been marketed for around $90 million, a broken crane dangled 1,000 feet above the ground. With tunnels and subways flooded, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said on Tuesday morning that the storm was the worst disaster in the subway's history.
UBS OVERHAULS INVESTMENT BANKING | UBS announced plans to cut up to 10,000 jobs as part of a major restructuring of its investment banking division. The restructuring is weighing on earnings. UBS reported a loss of 2.2 billion Swiss francs ($2.3 billion), in the quarter, compared with a profit of 1 billion francs in the period a year earlier. The chief executive of UBS, Sergio P. Ermotti, said the changes would "transform the firm and position it for future success," adding that the "decision has been a difficult one."
 Deutsche Bank announced results that were essentially flat for the third quarter, reporting net profit of 755 million euros ($795 million)i it posted net profit of 777 million euros in the period a year earlier. Its investment bank proved a rare bright spot, reporting a 67 percent increase in revenue. "In the near term, the macro environment remains uncertain, and we will maintain a cautious and risk-focused approach," said two co-chief executives, Anshu Jain and Jürgen Fitschen.
ON THE AGENDA | The storm has upended many plans, and it may even cause the monthly jobs report to be delayed. Ford Motor, Pfizer and BP are scheduled to report quarterly results. The Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index of home prices is released at 9 a.m.
A $5 BILLION BUYOUT? | 
Reynolds and Reynolds is considering a private equity buyout that could be worth about $5 billion, according to Reuters. The company, which sells software to auto dealers, is working with Qatalyst Partners and Deutsche Bank, and the potential investors include K.K.R., Reuters says.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Bayer to Buy Schiff for $1.2 Billion | The German pharmaceutical company Bayer is paying $34 a share for the American vitamin maker Schiff Nutrition, a 47 percent premium over its closing price on Friday, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Clean Harbors to Acquire Safety-Kleen for $1.25 Billion | After filing for an initial public offering, Safety-Kleen has found another way to let its owners cash out: by selling the company. DealBook »
Riverbed Technology to Buy Opnet for $993 Million | Riverbed Technology said on Monday that it planned to buy Opnet Technologies for $993.3 million in cash and stock, bolstering its business in optimizing software on corporate networks. DealBook »
JDA Software Said to Be for Sale | The enterprise software maker JDA Software, which has a market capitalization of about $1.5 billion, is considering selling itself, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter. REUTERS
Polygon Management Is Sold | The hedge fund Polygon Management was sold for $98.5 million to the Tetragon Financial Group, which is looking to expand its asset management business, Reuters reports. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Behind an Estimated $30 Trillion Drain on Banks, a Lot of Hypotheticals | A banking industry group looked into a new derivatives rule and sketched out a situation in which banks were required to come up with as much as $30 trillion in cash. But a deeper look suggests that many of the worries might be overdone. DealBook »
Standard Chartered Reports Modest Rise in Profit | The bank said operating profit in the first nine months of the year rose by a "mid-single digit" rate. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Profit Rises 15% at Big Chinese Bank | The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China announced results that beat analysts' estimates, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Evercore Announces Strategic Agreement with VTB Capital | The investment bank Evercore Partners has announced a cooperation agreement with its Russian counterpart VTB Capital to develop potential new deals for their clients in Russia and North America. The firms said they hoped to foster cross-border transactions and other projects involving Russian and North American companies. DealBook »
Credit Suisse Said to Plan Venture With Qatar Fund | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Chairman of CVC Capital Partners to Retire | Michael Smith, who joined CVC in the early 1980s when it was part of Citicorp, will be succeeded by Donald Mackenzie, Rolly van Rappard and Steve Koltes, who will act as co-chairmen of the company. DealBook »
Cerberus Said to Partner With Real Estate Firms | As it plans a possible bid for Supervalu, Cerberus Capital Management is working with the real estate firms that were its partners in the takeover of Albertsons six years ago, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing unidentified people familiar with the discussions. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Carlyle Plans a Real Estate Development in London | 
FINANCIAL TIMES
New Private Equity Firm Breaks From Tradition | A start-up firm is "setting out to overturn the traditional private equity fund model, investing on a deal-by-deal basis and only charging fees on invested capital," Financial News reports. FINANCIAL NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Paulson's Gift Highlights a Lack Elsewhere | When John A. Paulson gave $100 million to improve Central Park, the donation provided a reminder that "so many of the city's other parks look like ragged country cousins," writes Michael Powell in his column in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Computer-Driven Hedge Funds Have a Rough Month | 
REUTERS
Grant Capital Partners to Shutter | Geoff Grant, founder of the $1 billion hedge fund firm Grant Capital, said in a letter to investors that he did not have an "edge" in the markets, according to The Financial Times. FINANCIAL TIMES
Maverick Capital Starts a Fund With Narrower Focus | Maverick's new fund, known as Maverick Select, focuses on a selection of stocks that have been the best performers in the firm's portfolio, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Telefonica's German Unit Raises $1.87 Billion in I.P.O. | The mobile carrier priced shares at the top of its revised price range, for the largest I.P.O. in Europe this year, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Andreessen Horowitz Invests in a Mobile Billing Company | The venture capital firm Andreessen Horowitz is leading a $15.5 million round of financing in ItsOn, which makes software for mobile billing, Reuters reports. REUTERS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
A Dubious Case Found Lawyers Eager to Make Some Money | In Paul Ceglia's case against Facebook, his lawyers vouched for a client who is now charged with a "blatant forgery," writes Andrew Ross Sorkin in the DealBook column. DealBook »
After Accusations of Insider Trading, a Profession of Innocence | A Denver businessman arrested on Friday on insider trading charges e-mailed his family and friends over the weekend, proclaiming his innocence and comparing his plight to challenges faced by Nelson Mandela and Steven P. Jobs. DealBook »
Milken's Past Invoked in Gupta Sentencing | More than two decades after pleading guilty to securities fraud, Michael Milken continues to loom large as a symbol in the world of white-collar crime. DealBook »
How Bank of America Could Fight a Government Lawsuit | Legal minutiae may give Bank of America a basis to fight the claims in a recent Justice Department lawsuit, which relies on two statutes -- the False Claims Act and the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act -- for seeking penalties, writes Peter J. Henning in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook »
Corzine Ponders His Next Move | Jon S. Corzine, MF Global's former leader, "is struggling to figure out what comes next for himself, according to friends and former co-workers," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HURRICANE SANDY (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (79%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); HISTORY (75%); INSURANCE (74%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); POWER FAILURES (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (90%); UBS AG (83%); SANDLER O'NEILL + PARTNERS LP (69%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%); PFIZER INC (50%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (83%); UBS (NYSE) (83%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%); PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFEB (BRU) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1266 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: The Breakfast Meeting: Publishing Consolidates, and Creeping 'Christmas Creep'

BYLINE: NOAM COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: Also, Denzel Washington braved the storm on Monday to join David Letterman in Midtown Manhattan for the broadcast of "Late Show With David Lettrman." 

 BODY:
Despite the storm, David Letterman broadcast from Midtown Manhattan on Monday night, without a studio audience. Above, Denzel Washington braved the elements to appear on the show, entering in a yellow slicker while the band played Bob Dylan's song "Hurricane," which did double duty for Mr. Washington, who portrayed the boxer Rubin Carter in the film "The Hurricane."
The planned merger of Random House and Penguin, announced on Monday, could be the start of even more consolidation in publishing, Eric Pfanner and Amy Chozick report. As e-books become more central to commercial publishing, the thinking goes, the competition is not only from rival publishers but from online giants like Amazon, Google and Apple.

        
The decision by the publishers' parent companies, Bertelsmann and Pearson, to create a combined company with about 25 percent of the American market will need regulatory approval, but there could be a benefit from being the first of the Big Six publishers to combine. As one analyst explained: "It's easier to argue that the industry going from six to five publishing houses won't change the market, than arguing that going from five to four players won't impact competition."
        
Interest in Penguin by News Corporation, which owns the publisher HarperCollins, may have sped up the merger. Rupert Murdoch, who runs News Corporation, took to Twitter to mock the merger: "Bertelsmann-Penguin faux merger disaster. Two publishers trying to contract while saying opposite. Let's hear from authors and agents!"
The Supreme Court on Monday heard a copyright case over the sale of imported textbooks on eBay, Adam Liptak reports. At issue is whether the so-called first-sale doctrine - which says that owners of particular copies of products made in the United States can later lend them or sell them - also applies to copies made abroad. In the case of textbooks, prices can be lower overseas, and one enterprising student from Thailand helped pay for his education by selling copies that his family shipped to him. The publisher John Wiley & Sons sued him.
"Christmas creep" is in full effect this year, Stuart Elliott writes, with many retailers planning to start their holiday campaigns this week. Some, like Target and Toys "R" Us, are already on the air with ads. This development can still seem a shock to those used to Thanksgiving as the start of the Christmas shopping season, but it appears to work for the stores and the shoppers. In an uncertain economy, retailers want to get customers as soon as possible, and consumers have welcomed a longer shopping season to seek out better deals.

        
The Breakfast Meeting: Random House-Penguin Merger, and Romney's Straight Face
        
Random House and Penguin Are Negotiating a Merger
        
News Corp. May Bid for Penguin for Publishing Spinoff
        
The Breakfast Meeting: Dunham Book Deal and Girls Who Like Steak
        
The Breakfast Meeting: The Nook as 'iPad Lite,' and Lessons From the Olympics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (92%); CHRISTMAS (89%); MERGERS (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); RETAILERS (86%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); BOOK PUBLISHING (76%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); LITERARY AGENTS (75%); WRITERS (75%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (75%); APPROVALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); COPYRIGHT (64%); THANKSGIVING (60%) Letterman, David; Penguin Group; Random House; Target Corporation; Toys 'R' Us Inc; Washington, Denzel; Target Corporation|TGT|NYSE; The Breakfast Meeting

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); GOOGLE INC (56%); JOHN WILEY & SONS INC (52%); TOYS 'R' US INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Penguin Group; Random House; Target Corporation; Toys 'R' Us Inc

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); JWB (NYSE) (52%); JWA (NYSE) (52%) Target Corporation; TGT; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (51%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (51%)

PERSON: DENZEL WASHINGTON (91%); DAVID LETTERMAN (91%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%) Letterman, David; Washington, Denzel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1267 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Oct. 29: Polling Slows as Storm Wreaks Havoc

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Three of eight national tracking polls have announced temporary suspensions, and further polling delays and cancellations are likely over the next few days, especially in the Northeast. But Monday did offer some polls in the battleground states. 

 BODY:
The effects of Hurricane Sandy on next Tuesday's election are hard to predict. But the storm is likely to have an impact on the volume of polling in the meantime.
Three of the eight national tracking polls - those from Gallup, Investors' Business Daily and Public Policy Polling - have announced temporary suspensions in their polling. Further delays and cancellations are likely over the next few days, especially in the Northeastern states.
Still, we were not completely without polls on Monday.
President Obama had a mediocre day of polling in the battleground states. In particular, a Rasmussen Reports poll of Ohio showed him trailing Mitt Romney there by two percentage points. It was the first poll to show to him down in Ohio since a poll by a Rasmussen Reports affiliate, Pulse Opinion Research, on Oct. 15.
Is this the sign of a shift toward Mr. Romney in Ohio? 
It's probably premature to conclude that on the basis of this poll alone. With so many polling firms active in Ohio, any sustained trend toward Mr. Romney in the polls there should be reasonably apparent by late this week, although there may be some delays in the interim. (The storm's reach was broad enough to produce power outages in the Cleveland area, as well as in parts of southeastern Ohio.) Mr. Obama's projected lead in Ohio decreased to 2.1 percentage points from 2.2 points on the basis of the Rasmussen survey.
In Florida, a CNN poll had Mr. Romney up by one point against Mr. Obama , or tied with him when third-party candidates were included on the ballot. Another CNN survey, earlier this month, had also shown Mr. Romney one point ahead in Florida. The poll is consistent with how the FiveThirtyEight projection views Florida, with Mr. Romney ahead by 1.2 percentage points in our forecast there.
An American Research Group poll of Colorado had Mr. Obama one point behind there, although that reflects an improvement for him from their prior poll of the state, when Mr. Obama trailed by four points.
Mr. Obama got reasonably favorable numbers in polls of New Hampshire and Nevada, although both were from Democratic-leaning firms and so did not affect our forecast much. 
Arguably Mr. Obama's best poll of the day, instead, was an Elon University survey of North Carolina, which had a tied race there. But North Carolina may be far enough way from the electoral tipping point that it is unlikely to figure all that prominently in next Tuesday's math. Mr. Obama could win North Carolina - the forecast model gives him about a 20 percent chance of doing so - but most of those outcomes involve cases in which Mr. Obama will already have secured enough electoral votes in states like Virginia to have clinched another term.
National polls out on Monday, including some of the tracking polls that released a last set of results prior to suspending their polls, showed a tied race, on average.
On the surface, these numbers look reasonably favorable for Mr. Obama, since he made gains on average (by 0.7 percentage points) from the previous edition of the same surveys. 
A poll by Pew Research, for example, had a tied race - a better result for Mr. Obama than their last national poll, which had him trailing Mr. Romney by four points instead.
The FiveThirtyEight model views the Pew poll somewhat negatively for Mr. Obama, however. The reason is that, although a comparison of the trend against the most immediate prior release of the poll is important, the model also evaluates each survey in the context of all other polls that the firm has released over the course of the year. Pew Research had shown very strong results for Mr. Obama earlier in the year - for example, it had him up eight points among likely voters in a survey they conducted after the Democratic convention in September, so a tie there is still a middling result for Mr. Obama by comparison.
Mr. Obama's position declined slightly in the forecast on Monday, with his chances of winning the Electoral College decreasing to 72.9 percent from 74.6 percent on Sunday, and Mr. Romney's increasing to 27.1 percent from 25.4 percent.
 Storm's Effect on the Popular Vote 
On Monday, I mentioned the possibility that Hurricane Sandy could increase the chance of an split between the Electoral College and the popular vote, on the theory that it might reduce turnout in the blue-leaning states of the Northeast.
After running some numbers on this, I am less convinced that the storm is all that likely to induce such a split.
The FiveThirtyEight forecast of the popular vote is based on adding up the projected results in each state, and then weighing them based on their projected turnout. (Turnout estimates are based on the state's turnout in 2008 and 2010 and its population growth over the past four years.) 
As of Monday, this projection showed Mr. Obama ahead in the popular vote by 1.5 percentage points nationwide. (Why does this result differ from what national polls seem to say? That's a great question, and one we have addressed previously: there are systemic differences between the way that state polls and national polls seem to be perceiving the race this year.)
How would the projection change if turnout were reduced by 10 percent in Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey and New York?
Mr. Obama's projected margin in the popular vote would decline to 1.2 or 1.3 percentage points, meaning a shift against him of only 0.2 or 0.3 percentage points. Instead of having a 6 percent chance of winning the Electoral College while losing the popular vote, as the default version of the FiveThirtyEight model gives him, those chances would increase to about 8 percent.
This is, of course, a fairly crude assessment: a fuller one would require a consideration of exactly which counties were affected, and whether they were Democratic or Republican leaning. It might also need to consider the effects of inland flooding and blizzards on states beyond the coasts, for example, in West Virginia.
But the United States is a big and resilient country; a disaster in one part of it may have a surprisingly small impact when viewed in terms of its entire economy, or its entire population.
Nor do I necessarily think that it can be taken for granted that the storm will reduce turnout all that much, even in the worst-affected regions. Although the storm's after-effects may make it physically harder for some people to vote, disasters can also increase civic-mindedness and patriotism, attitudes that make voting more likely.

        
Oct. 26: State Poll Averages Usually Call Election Right
        
Oct. 25: The State of the States
        
Oct. 24: In Polls, Romney's Momentum Seems to Have Stopped
        
Oct. 22: Ohio Has 50-50 Chance of Deciding Election
        
Oct. 18: Obama Gains in Forecast on Resiliency in Swing State Polls

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (75%); TRENDS (74%); POWER FAILURES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (68%) barack obama; forecast update; Hurricane Sandy; mitt romney; polls; swing states; Politics; Polling; projection update

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1268 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler CEO: Jeep Production Isn't Moving to China

BYLINE: JEREMY W. PETERS AND JIM RUTENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: The CEO of Chrysler responds to a misleading suggestion in a Romney ad that jobs are moving to China. 

 BODY:
Chrysler's chief executive on Tuesday strongly refuted claims that production of Jeeps would shift to China, an insistence that cast further doubt on the Romney campaign's recent efforts to undercut President Obama's support for the auto industry as it fights for Ohio's 18 electoral votes.
In an e-mail to employees, the chief executive, Sergio Marchionne, said that Jeep's commitment to the United States was unequivocal. "I feel obliged to unambiguously restate our position: Jeep production will not be moved from the United States to China," he wrote. "It is inaccurate to suggest anything different."
Mr. Marchionne's response - an unusually forceful gesture from the chief executive of a major American corporation a week before Election Day - came as the politics of the auto bailout took center stage in the presidential campaign.
The Romney campaign has come under considerable criticism in recent days for taking liberties with the facts in a new television commercial that suggests Jeep, a recipient of federal bailout money, will soon outsource American jobs to China. Chrysler, Jeep's parent company, does not in fact have plans to cut its American work force but is considering opening a facility in China where it would produce Jeeps for sale locally.
Mr. Marchionne said that those efforts would only bolster the strength of Chrysler in the United States, not undermine it.
"Jeep is one of our truly global brands with uniquely American roots. This will never change," he said.
The politics of the auto bailout have become a vexing problem for Mr. Romney as he competes fiercely with President Obama for Ohio. Mr. Obama carried the state in 2008 with just 51.2 percent of the vote and has remained ahead of Mr. Romney in many recent polls, a strength that is due in some measure to the rebound of the auto industry.
Mr. Romney opposed the bailout, most famously in a New York Times op-ed that carried the headline "Let Detroit Go Bankrupt." Mr. Romney did not write the headline; the newspaper did. But even his supporters in the Midwest have questioned his logic in arguing that Chrysler and General Motors should have been denied federal assistance, which he deemed at the time "a handout."
The Romney campaign has insisted that its most recent ad - which is carefully worded enough that it is not factually inaccurate - merely states the truth: that Jeeps are not currently made in China but will be soon. But the ad makes no mention of the point Mr. Marchionne and others have made, which is that no American jobs will be lost.
The Romney campaign has shown no signs of backing away from the ad. In fact, it is now repeating the same claims in a new radio commercial.
The memo from Mr. Marchionne is below:
Chrysler Group's production plans for the Jeep® brand have become the focus of public debate.
I feel obliged to unambiguously restate our position: Jeep production will not be moved from the United States to China.
North American production is critical to achieving our goal of selling 800,000 Jeep vehicles by 2014. In fact, U.S. production of our Jeep models has nearly tripled (it is expected to be up 185%) since 2009 in order to keep up with global demand.
We also are investing to improve and expand our entire U.S. operations, including our Jeep facilities. The numbers tell the story:
 We will invest more than $1.7 billion to develop and produce the next generation Jeep SUV, the successor of the Jeep Liberty -- including $500 million directly to tool and expand our Toledo Assembly Complex and will be adding about 1,100 jobs on a second shift by 2013.
 At our Jefferson North Assembly Plant, where we build the Jeep Grand Cherokee, we have created 2,000 jobs since June 2009 and have invested more than $1.8 billion.
 In Belvidere, where we build two Jeep models, we have added two shifts since 2009 resulting in an additional 2,600 jobs.
With the increase in demand for our vehicles, especially Jeep branded vehicles, we have added more than 11,200 U.S. jobs since 2009. Plants producing Jeep branded vehicles alone have seen the number of people invested in the success of the Jeep brand grow to more than 9,300 hourly jobs from 4,700. This will increase by an additional 1,100 as the Liberty successor, which will be produced in Toledo, is introduced for global distribution in the second quarter of 2013.
Together, we are working to establish a global enterprise and previously announced our intent to return Jeep production to China, the world's largest auto market, in order to satisfy local market demand, which would not otherwise be accessible. Chrysler Group is interested in expanding the customer base for our award-winning Jeep vehicles, which can only be done by establishing local production. This will ultimately help bolster the Jeep brand, and solidify the resilience of U.S. jobs.
Jeep is one of our truly global brands with uniquely American roots. This will never change. So much so that we committed that the iconic Wrangler nameplate, currently produced in our Toledo, Ohio plant, will never see full production outside the United States.
Jeep assembly lines will remain in operation in the United States and will constitute the backbone of the brand.
It is inaccurate to suggest anything different.
 Sergio Marchionne 

        
Rocking the Vote, Meat Loaf Endorses Romney
        
Mourdock's Comments Pose Dilemma for Romney
        
Romney Plans Economic Speech in Iowa
        
How Bill Clinton May Have Hurt the Obama Campaign
        
Coming Later Today: Coverage of the Second Presidential Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BAILOUTS (88%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LAYOFFS (71%); PARENT COMPANIES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (67%) Campaign Advertising; mitt romney; Marchionne, Sergio; Obama, Barack; Automobiles; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Jeep Division of Chrysler; China; Detroit (Mich); Ohio; Toledo (Ohio); United States; The Caucus

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (97%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Jeep Division of Chrysler

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Marchionne, Sergio; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%) China; Detroit (Mich); Ohio; Toledo (Ohio); United States

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1269 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Apocalypse Now

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Mike Huckabee and Billy Graham are urging Americans to vote for biblical values--and warning of dire consequences if they don't. 

 BODY:
The presidential candidates have told us many times that this election is vitally important and have stressed the dire consequences of voting for the other guy. President Obama says the poor will suffer while rich people will prosper if Mitt Romney wins. Mr. Romney counters that Mr. Obama will destroy the economy, coddle terrorists and betray Israel.
But now we learn that there is a much, much greater risk even than that in voting for Mr. Obama - the wrath of God.
"This November, Christians across the nation will be put to the test," the Rev. Mike Huckabee, former governor and former presidential candidate, says in a new video.

"Your vote," he says, "will affect the future and be recorded in eternity. Will you vote the values that will stand the test of fire?"

While the video shows burning fires (get it?) and a woman striding purposefully into a voting booth, Mr. Huckabee concedes that there are a lot of issues in this campaign, but "some issues are not negotiable."
These are "the right to life from conception to natural death; marriage should be reinforced, not redefined; it is an egregious violation of our cherished principle of religious liberty to force the church to buy the kind of insurance that leads to the taking of innocent human life."
That last bit is a combination of two lies involving Mr. Obama's health care reform, which requires companies to offer coverage for contraceptives to female employees. It specifically exempts churches and it does not cover abortion.
Mr. Huckabee is not alone in casting this election as a test of your faith in God.
On his website and in newspaper ads (for the Milwaulkee Journal-Sentinel, among other places), the Rev. Billy Graham wrote: "I believe it is vitally important that we cast our ballots for candidates who base their decisions on biblical principles and support the nation of Israel." (Hint: That does not include Mr. Obama.)
"I urge you to vote for those who protect the sanctity of life and support the biblical definition of marriage between a man and a woman," he said. "Vote for biblical values this November 6, and pray with me that American will remain one nation under God."
Although Mr. Obama isn't above pandering, in this election cycle I have not seen the Democratic side stoop nearly this low.

        
What's Left of the Big Tent
        
Wars: Imagined and Real
        
Fighting Absurdity With Absurdity
        
The Abortion Excuse
        
About Last Night

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); RELIGION (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ABORTION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CONTRACEPTION (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); WOMEN (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (70%); WOMEN WORKERS (68%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (63%); TERRORISM (57%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%) Abortion; Billy Graham; birth control; Mike Huckabee; Political Advertising; Graham, Billy; Huckabee, Mike; Birth Control and Family Planning; Presidential Election of 2012

PERSON: MICHAEL HUCKABEE (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Graham, Billy; Huckabee, Mike

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1270 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Wealthy Donated Less but Volunteered More in 2011

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Most wealthy households say they will increase or maintain their level of charity in the next three to five years, a study finds. 

 BODY:
The "1 percent" have taken some lumps over the last year or so. But despite a dip in overall philanthropic giving, the majority of the wealthy donated a consistent proportion of their income to charity last year, a new study finds.
Ninety-five percent of wealthy households donated to charity last year, according to the 2012 Bank of America Study of High Net Worth Philanthropy. That is down from 98 percent in 2009, in a previous version of the study. (About 65 percent of the general population of United States households donate to charity, the study said.)
But the wealthy still gave roughly 9 percent of their incomes - about the same level as in 2009, the study found. Given the recent recession, that level of giving shows an "extraordinary" commitment to philanthropy, said Claire Costello, philanthropic practice executive for U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth Management. The average dollar amount given per household fell 7 percent, to $52,770 from $56,621, adjusted for inflation.
The study also showed an uptick in volunteering among the wealthy, suggesting that the affluent may have compensated for lower dollar donations by giving more of their time. In 2011, 89 percent of wealthy individuals volunteered with nonprofits, up from 79 percent in 2009.
The study was done in partnership with the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University. The results are based on a nationwide sample of 700 households with net worths of $1 million or more, excluding the value of their homes, or annual household incomes of $200,000 or more.
About a quarter of wealthy households plan to increase their giving over the next three to five years, and about half said they planned to give at the same level, the study found.
How much of your income do you donate to charity?

        
Spending Your Money to Make Someone Else Happy
        
What Nonprofit Groups Know About You
        
The Case Against Ending Food Drives
        
Donations at the Checkout Counter Are Often Deductible
        
Deciding Between Donor-Advised Funds and Private Foundations

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (93%); AFFLUENT MARKET (92%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); CHARITIES (90%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%) Philanthropy; Bank of America Corporation; United States; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE

COMPANY: U S TRUST BANK OF AMERICA PRIVATE WEALTH MANAGEMENT (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (54%) Bank of America Corporation

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2012



1271 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: What Too Close to Call Really Means

BYLINE: ANDREW GELMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A political statistician explains why it's hard to get our heads around the presidential polls. 

 BODY:
I am a political statistician, or, perhaps I should say, a statistical political scientist. Announcing this to someone can elicit diminished eye contact, but every four years I experience a temporary surge in popularity. For months now people I know have been stopping me on the street to ask who I think will win the election. And for months I've always said, either side could win it.
The economy is weak, but not as weak as it was in 2008. President Obama has incumbency on his side, but there's a proportion of whites who don't want to vote for a black person. The Republicans have more money, but the Democrats seem to have run a more effective campaign, and so forth. A few months ago, the political scientist Douglas Hibbs reported that his venerable "bread and peace" model gave Obama 47 percent of the vote based on current economic conditions (the model doesn't directly factor in incumbency so I'd guess it would understate the president's vote share).
Different models use different economic and political variables to predict the vote, but these predictions pretty much average to 50-50. People keep wanting me to say that Obama's going to win - I do live near the fabled People's Republic of the Upper West Side, after all - but I keep saying that either side could win. People usually respond to my equivocal non-forecast with a resigned sigh: "I was hoping you'd be able to reassure me."
On Sunday I spoke at a pre-election event at the public library in Larchmont, N.Y. Interest was high: even with the big storm coming, all the seats were full. I have a feeling that, 40 or 60 years ago, the burghers of Larchmont were solidly Republican, but no longer. In my talk, I pre-empted the inevitable question by telling them right away the election was too close to call. Still, they appeared optimistic. I told them not to worry: Obama would definitely win New York State.
Obsession with this question is not confined to the United States. Last week I was interviewed by a reporter from France, who asked me who I thought would win the election. I said, it's too close to call. He said, but Nate Silver's FiveThirtyEight blog on NYTimes.com currently gives Obama a 72.9 percent chance. I think Nate is great, and I was thrilled to have the opportunity to contribute to his blog for a while. But I'd still say the election is too close to call.
Let's dig and see what this means. If we ran the election 100 times, Silver was saying that Obama would win 72 of them - but we'll only be running it once. Silver was predicting an approximate 50.3 percent of the two-party vote share for Obama, but shifts of as large as 1 percent of the vote could happen at any time. (Ultimately, of course, we care about the Electoral College, not the popular vote. But a lot of research on polls and elections has shown that opinion swings and vote swings tend to be national.)
The online betting service Intrade gives Obama a 62 percent chance of winning, and I respect this number too, as it reflects the opinions of people who are willing to put money on the line. The difference between 63 percent and 75 percent may sound like a lot, but it corresponds to something like a difference of half a percentage point in Obama's forecast vote share. Put differently, a change in 0.5 percent in the forecast of Obama's vote share corresponds to a change in a bit more than 10 percent in his probability of winning. Either way, the uncertainty is larger than the best guess at the vote margin.
Where is this uncertainty coming from? First, public opinion can shift quickly during the last week of campaigning, as news arrives and as voters make their final decisions. Second, the polls aren't perfect. Nonresponse rates continue to rise and, although pollsters are working on more and more sophisticated methods for correcting for this problem - an area of my research - we cannot always catch up. Even an average of polls can be wrong, but it's hard to know in advance of the election how wrong they will be, or in which direction.
What I'm saying is that I can simultaneously (a) accept that Obama has a 72 percent chance of winning and (b) say the election is too close to call. What if the weatherman told you there was a 30 percent chance of rain - would you be shocked if it rained that day? No. To put it another way, suppose Mitt Romney pulls out 51 percent of the popular vote and wins the election. That doesn't mean that Nate Silver skews the polls (as is suggested by this repulsive article at Examiner.com, which, among other things, criticizes Silver for being thin and having a soft voice). Romney winning the election with 51 percent of the vote is well within the margin of error, as Silver clearly indicates. That's what too close to call is all about.
But, as psychologists like Daniel Kahneman, Paul Slovic and Amos Tversky have shown, people aren't so good at thinking about probability and uncertainty. I struggle with this every day, and I can only imagine how difficult this sort of thing is for non-statisticians. An example from my own life: every semester I find myself surprised that some students who perform well on the midterm fall down on the final exam, while others who struggle at first end up performing very well. As a statistician, I know that a midterm exam is a noisy signal - but as a human, it's hard for me to avoid falling into the trap of thinking of measurements as perfect.
To get a sense of how people are thinking about the probabilistic forecasts that are currently available, I searched around on the Web and found this piece posted a few days ago by Mark Kleiman, a professor of public policy at UCLA, and presumably someone who is used to dealing with numbers:
All the chatter - especially from the right wing, but also from the Village Idiots and the Eeyores on the progressive side - suggests that the race is too close to call.
However:
If you're willing to bet on Romney, you can get slightly better than 2:1 at Betfair. That suggests a 33 percent chance of disaster. Nate Silver thinks it's closer to 25 percent. On InTrade it's a slightly more discouraging 36 percent . IEM's winner-take-all market is about who wins the popular vote, but its vote-share market gives Obama a 4-point edge, about twice the margin Silver's model predicts.
Yes, something horrible could happen. But this is not a tied ball game. Romney's a touchdown behind with five minutes to play.
I think I'd fall into the Village Idiots category here, but whatever. My point is that it's hard to process probabilities that fall between, say, 60 percent and 90 percent. Less than 60 percent, and I think most people would accept the "too close to call" label. More than 90 percent and you're ready to start planning for the transition team or your second inaugural ball. In between, though, it's tough.
For that matter, what is the probability you'll win the football game if you're a touchdown behind with five minutes to play? Here's one take from the football analyst Brian Burke, which suggests that if you're up by a touchdown with five minutes left, you have something like a 90 percent chance of winning. Even if you're only up by a field goal, your chance of winning appears to be something like 80 percent. As I dug further, I saw that Silver makes a similar point. Another analyst gives an 80 percent chance of winning if you're ahead by a touchdown at the end of the third quarter. Again, I'm no football expert but these numbers make sense to me. According to yet another site that Silver links to, a team that's leading by 2 points with 5 minutes to go has a 65 percent chance of winning. So I think it's more accurate to say that Obama is up by 2 points, not by a touchdown, in this final stretch.
What's the point of this digression? Probabilities are hard to understand. Even experts get confused. Kleiman believes that the election is not too close to call, so he analogizes it to an event with 90 percent probability. But there's a big difference between 2:1 odds and 9:1 odds. I'd describe a 2-point lead with 5 minutes to go as too close to call. You'd rather be up 2 points than down 2 points (or expected to get 50.5 percent of the vote rather than 49.5 percent) but anything can happen.
Let me be clear: I'm not averse to making a strong prediction, when this is warranted by the data. For example, in Feburary 2010, I wrote that "the Democrats are gonna get hammered" in the upcoming congressional elections, as indeed they were. My statement was based on the model of the political scientists Joseph Bafumi, Robert Erikson and Christopher Wlezien, who predicted congressional election voting given generic ballot polling ("If the elections for Congress were being held today, which party's candidate would you vote for in your Congressional district?"). Their model predicted that the Republicans would win by 8 percentage points (54 percent to 46 percent). That's the basis of an unambiguous forecast. 50.5 percent to 49.5 percent? Not so much. The voters are decided; small events could swing the election one way or another, and until we actually count the votes, we won't know how far off the polls are. Over the past couple of weeks, each new poll has provided lots of excitement (thanks, Gallup) but essentially zero information. The poll next Tuesday will tell us a lot more.
 Andrew Gelman is a professor of statistics and political science and director of the Applied Statistics Center at Columbia University. 

        
The Polling Bias Debate
        
Economy or Personality?
        
The Danger of Voter Fraud Vigilantes
        
Billionaires Going Rogue
        
Some Are More Unequal Than Others

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%) FiveThirtyEight.com; forecasts; Nate Silver; political statistics; polling; predictions; presidential election of 2012; statistics; Gelman, Andrew; Silver, Nate; Elections; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Betfair; Intrade

ORGANIZATION: Betfair; Intrade

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%) Gelman, Andrew; Silver, Nate

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1272 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: October 30, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: The Polling Bias Debate

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: The endless arguments over skewing and unskewing data have actually added complexity to this year's election. 

 BODY:
When the term "unskewed polls" entered the political lexicon this fall, courtesy of a conservative blogger convinced that national pollsters were missing a looming Romney landslide, there was a lot of talk about how the right's polling skepticism was ushering in a landscape in which every observer would become a Gallup unto himself, and even the basic shape of a political campaign would be up for angry partisan dispute.
Since then, the polls themselves have delivered us that very outcome - a final week where everyone can look at the numbers and credibly claim to see exactly what they hope to see.
A month ago, the polling numbers that supposedly needed to be unskewed all told more or less the same story: President Obama held a relatively comfortable national lead that roughly paralleled his lead in the crucial swing states. The pro-Romney polling skeptics were grasping at straws precisely because the election outcome seemed so easy to predict - not a rout, necessarily, but a convincing victory for the incumbent in the popular vote and the electoral college alike.
Today nothing is so clear. Since Mitt Romney's post-debate comeback leveled off in mid-October, the national polls have been remarkably consistent. Romney pulled ahead of the president in the RealClearPolitics national poll average on Oct. 9, and he has led, usually by less than a point, for all but three days since. That kind of margin is too narrow to make Romney a clear favorite, but it suggests a race that's a toss-up with a slight edge to the challenger.
The swing state numbers, though, suggest that the president is still headed for a narrow victory. He and Romney are tied in Virginia, a state that the Republican ticket almost certainly needs to win, and Obama has an edge in all the states - Ohio, Wisconsin, Iowa, Nevada - that the White House been relying on as its firewall against a Romney surge. These leads are narrow but relatively consistent: Like the national numbers, they've barely moved since mid-October.
There is nothing necessarily contradictory about these findings. As Americans who lived through the 2000 recount well know, it's possible to win the popular vote without winning the presidency, in which case the national polls and the state polls could both be vindicated. That reality alone probably justifies some of the current tilt toward Obama in prediction markets and election models like my colleague Nate Silver's FiveThirtyEight blog. As Silver noted a few weeks ago, it means there are three ways that the state-national discrepancy can be resolved, and "two of the three hypotheses yield an Obama win."
But the electoral-popular split remains less likely than an outcome in which either the state or national polls are simply off the mark. It's interesting to imagine how a split might happen - presumably with Romney racking up larger-than-average margins in the South and overperforming among his fellow moderates in states like Connecticut and New Jersey - and it would vindicate the Obama campaign's strategy of spending heavily and early in the Midwest. It's still more probable, though, that the swing states will ultimately behave like swing states, and move with the country as a whole - in which case a significant number of pollsters will have consistently read either several states or the entire country wrong.
For would-be prognosticators this reality is vexing, but for partisans on both sides it's a gift. Liberals have been relying on the Silver model and others like it, which give priority to state polls for a variety of plausible historical reasons to stave off the anxiety that Mittmentum has induced. Conservatives have been building a credible counternarrative, arguing that the national polls showing Romney ahead offer a more accurate take on the final composition of the electorate than the more heavily Democratic samples showing up in state polls. And both sides can point to a host of confounding variables - early voting's impact on polls, the shifting composition of the independent vote, and now Hurricane Sandy - to buttress their case for how the election will turn out.
If this sounds like just another tedious case of spin against spin - well, it isn't, quite. First, the intellectual stakes are higher, because unlike our endless debates over the optimal health care policy or the wisest counterterrorism strategy, it will actually be settled, conclusively, only a week from now. (Well, barring a truly grisly recount, at least.) Some polls will be clearly right, and others will be clearly wrong; some analysts will be vindicated, and some will look overconfident or hackish. Obviously nobody's going to be hounded out of punditry if their predictions are mistaken, but we will at least be able to declare this particular argument settled, once and for all, in favor of liberals or conservatives.
So that's a good thing - and what's even better is that the endless arguments over polling data have actually ended up making this year's election seem more interesting and unpredictable, the motivations of voters more complex, and the act of voting more significant than in years when the polls are easy to interpret.
In this sense, the mere existence of this debate is good news for the democratic process. Almost everyone who follows politics lives for the "Dewey Defeats Truman" moments when pollsters get things wrong, because such moments vindicate the existence of actual elections, and the capacity of the public to surprise.
In most elections, the people predicting such a moment are just deceiving themselves, "unskewing" polls that weren't skewed to begin with in order to keep their hopes up and give their voters a reason to turn out.
But not so in 2012. Thanks to the closeness of the race and the divide between state and national polls, both Republicans and Democrats will head to the voting booth next week clutching something almost as precious as the franchise itself - a reason to believe.

        
What Too Close to Call Really Means
        
Economy or Personality?
        
The Danger of Voter Fraud Vigilantes
        
Billionaires Going Rogue
        
Some Are More Unequal Than Others

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (74%) bias; FiveThirtyEight.com; Nate Silver; polling; presidential election of 2012; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Silver, Nate; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012

COMPANY: FORBES INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Silver, Nate

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1273 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Alabama Simmers Before Vote on Its Constitution's Racist Language

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
EUTAW, Ala. -- If a constitution is a deal between a government and its people, few people have been swindled quite as flagrantly as the black residents of rural Alabama in 1901. Not only was the State Constitution written that year with the primary goal of disenfranchising them, but their votes were almost certainly stolen to adopt it.
So it is less surprising than it may at first seem to hear what David Finch, a retired maintenance worker in this small county seat, thinks about a proposal to strip the Constitution of a few legally defunct sentences of segregationist language.
''I think they should leave it in,'' said Mr. Finch, who is black and who says the whole document is hopelessly toxic. ''If you ain't going to do it right, leave it alone.'' 
Amendment 4, which Alabamians will vote on next week, would eliminate obsolete but lingering passages from the State Constitution mandating separate schools ''for white and colored children.'' It would leave the rest of the section concerning schools untouched. But the 111-year-old Alabama Constitution is so convoluted, and legal fights over it have gone on so long, that there is fierce disagreement over what the rest of the section actually is.
What appeared to be a simple act of reformist editing has led to disputes over its effect on the state's obligations to provide public education, the disposition of several past court rulings and, in a larger sense, the degree to which racist language can be surgically removed from a document that was constructed primarily on the ground of racism.
The Alabama Constitution of 1901 has few enthusiastic defenders. With more than 800 amendments, it is by some counts the longest operating constitution in the world. It is so restrictive that amendments are required for local laws on mosquito control and litter enforcement. It enshrines one of the most regressive tax codes in the nation and puts enormous power in the hands of the Legislature, thus creating solid constituencies against change.
''The vested interests had control of the convention in 1901, and these interests had advantages under that Constitution,'' said former Gov. Albert Brewer, the chairman of the Constitutional Revision Commission, which was formed last year by the State Legislature. ''For the past century we have seen the interests that enjoy these special advantages present a unified front against any major revision.''
The commission has put its first proposals up for a statewide vote this year: revisions of two sections pertaining to banking and corporations. These are uncontroversial measures and considered low-hanging fruit.
Amendment 4, which was unrelated to the commission's work, is most assuredly not.
While Alabama was internationally mocked for voting down a similar attempt to excise segregationist language from its Constitution in 2004, the fundamental issue then, as now, was not the racist language itself. It was the state's nearly visceral antipathy to taxes.
The dispute goes back to a section of the 1901 Constitution dealing with education, which says the state shall maintain ''a liberal system of public schools,'' before dictating that those schools remain separate for white and black children.
That remained the law until 1956, when, after the Supreme Court's Brown v. Board of Education decision, the state's political leaders sought a way around integration. They passed an amendment that, among other things, explicitly denied ''any right to education or training at public expense,'' thus letting the state transfer public schools to private operators.
The status of that 1956 amendment is a matter for debate. In 1991, a trial court judge ruled the amendment unconstitutional in a case involving the adequacy of school financing in Alabama. The State Supreme Court dismissed the underlying case in 2002, but its decision and the various concurrences left so little clarity that it remains uncertain what exactly the constitutional status of the amendment is today.
The 2004 attempt to strip the vestigial racist language would have left standing the 1901 clause mandating a liberal system of public schools. Some of the state's influential conservative leaders saw this as leading to expanded financing for public education. Arguing that the whole thing was a plot to raise taxes, they narrowly won the campaign for the amendment's defeat.
Last year, a Republican state senator, Arthur Orr, who says he was troubled by the Constitution's continuing deterrent effect on economic development, introduced the proposal again. His version, after some revisions, did not include the language about public schools that prompted the antitax backlash, but retains the clause from the 1956 amendment denying the right to a public education.
Mr. Orr insists that he had no agenda and that legal experts simply told him this amendment was indeed the current law of the land. These experts and others, including Othni Lathram, the director of the nonpartisan Alabama Law Institute, say Mr. Orr's amendment was narrow enough anyway that it would have no effect on debates over the state and public education.
''My intent when I got the resolution drafted was to come up with what I would call a very focused and targeted amendment,'' Mr. Orr said, ''not wading into the education issues surrounding the 2004 amendment, but to focus just narrowly on the segregationist language.''
But other legal experts, joined by teachers' union officials and black political leaders, disagree.
By voting for this, said Martha Morgan, a professor emerita at the University of Alabama school of law, Alabama would be affirming by referendum that there is no constitutional guarantee to a public education in Alabama, thus settling what for now is at least a matter of legal dispute. By cutting the explicit racism while leaving the rest in, she said, the vote could jeopardize future legal challenges to the state's school financing structure, substantially worsening inequality while cosmetically addressing it.
''I thought this was one of those feel-good bills,'' said Linda Coleman, a Democratic state senator who is black and voted for the bill despite caring little about obsolete language in the Constitution. ''But that's not the only thing that is involved here. And they didn't say all that.''
Those on the Constitutional Revision Commission say that whatever the outcome of the vote on Amendment 4, they will revise the education section of the Constitution in the next year anyway. They are confident that despite the failure of past efforts, this one will be successful because the commission is bipartisan and includes a number of influential lawmakers. The commission's odds of success are probably most helped by what it is not trying to do: it is specifically barred from changing the tax code.
Wayne Flynt, an emeritus professor of history at Auburn University, said that prompted him to wonder how much, in the end, things would really change. ''Taking racist language out of the Constitution is sooner or later going to happen, but the tax stuff is quite a different matter,'' he said.
''To ask any group of people to give up the substantial power they already have is difficult,'' he added, ''if not impossible.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Copies of Alabama's Constitution lined a stairway at Birmingham-Southern College in 2006, when student protesters held a marathon reading of the document. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BERNARD TRONCALE/BIRMINGHAM NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); COUNTIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (58%) ALABAMA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1274 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Have Helped Set Catalonia Apart in Spain

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
BADALONA, Spain -- Catalonia's gathering drive to separate from Spain has been a mixed blessing for Enrique Shen.
It has been good for business. Last month, before a giant rally in neighboring Barcelona to support independence, Mr. Shen ran out of the Catalan flags he sells as a wholesaler because customers had snapped up about 10,000 of them in just a week.
But as an immigrant who moved here from Shanghai 20 years ago, he is worried by the way separatists advance their case for nationhood with claims to a distinct Catalan national culture, language and identity that set it apart from Spain. ''It's always best to be part of a larger country, just like having a bigger family to help you,'' Mr. Shen said. 
Immigrants like Mr. Shen illustrate the complexities of identity in Catalonia, where they have helped make the economy both the largest among Spain's regions and the most diverse, alongside Madrid, with sizable populations of Muslims, Sikhs, Chinese and others.
As Catalonia prepares for a regional election on Nov. 25 that could become an unofficial referendum on independence, as many as 1.5 million residents of the region, out of a total population of 7.5 million, will not be eligible to vote because they are not Spanish citizens.
While these newcomers have played little part in the separatist debate so far, their sheer numbers and their contributions to Catalonia's economy have indirectly reinforced the claims by some politicians that the region should occupy a place in the European Union separate from Spain. With annual output of about $260 billion in goods and services, an independent Catalonia's economy would be larger than a dozen of the union's 27 members.
Cities like Badalona, just northeast of Barcelona on the Mediterranean coast, illustrate the social and economic challenges that Catalonia faces, whatever the outcome of the separatist drive.
Last year, Badalona, with a population of 220,000, elected a hard-line conservative mayor, Xavier García Albiol, ''in part due to his polemical views linking immigrants from Romania and other countries to crime and promising a tougher stance on illegal immigration,'' the United States Department of State said in its most recent human rights report on Spain.
Mr. García Albiol is one of only a few politicians from the governing Popular Party of Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy to win office in Catalonia. In step with his conservative colleagues, Mr. García Albiol opposes separation, and he has cast a large shadow over Badalona's immigrants, to the point that he has been sued based on accusations of inciting hatred against the local Roma population.
''One reason I got elected is because people could see that I was ready to identify a problem and take action to resolve it,'' Mr. García Albiol said in an interview.
Asked to explain the problem, Mr. García Albiol said, ''A large part of the migrants came here to work, but a small part also arrived with the sole intention of becoming delinquents, stealing and making life generally impossible for all their neighbors.'' For this minority, he concluded, ''the only solution is police pressure, efficient judicial action, and if possible, send them back to their countries.''
This year, Mr. García Albiol tried unsuccessfully to block the opening of a new mosque in Badalona. The mayor's immigration policies are ''a bad joke,'' said Abdelkrim Latifi I Boussalem, who helps run Amics, an association that offers Islamic teaching and Arabic language classes in Badalona.
Still, Mr. Latifi I Boussalem, who left his native Casablanca, Morocco, 22 years ago, said the municipality struggled to accept the Moroccans and Pakistanis who form the bulk of the city's Muslim population even before the city elected Mr. García Albiol.
''All the major political parties display some fear of Islam,'' he said. ''It's never been easy, but at least other politicians used to talk to us and didn't just call us a problem.''
Mr. Latifi I Boussalem contended that recent immigrants should have a say in any independence referendum. ''We're not here to dilute Catalan identity, and are ready to work hard to understand the place in which we live, especially since Catalonia has always been a land of welcome and refuge.''
Before World War II, Catalonia's population was about 2.9 million, but it doubled in the decades afterward as Spaniards flocked to the region's industries from poorer, more rural parts of Spain. Mr. García Albiol's father, for instance, came from Andalusia in the 1960s, at the peak of that migration movement.
More recently, Catalonia has been at the forefront of a wave of immigration that started in the late 1990s, when Spain opened its doors to millions of overseas workers to fuel a construction-led boom. That boom ended in 2008 with the world financial crisis and the collapse of the real estate bubble here, and many of the immigrants have either started to leave or been forced into the ranks of Spain's unemployed, who now make up 25 percent of the labor force.
''For most of the immigrants we help, their only preoccupations now are finding a job, making sure their papers are in order and meeting their basic needs,'' said Fátima Ahmed, the spokeswoman for Ibn Batuta, an association based in Barcelona that offers legal and social services to immigrants. These issues, she said, ''are very far from a political debate that they don't even have the right to vote in.''
In fact, Artur Mas, the president of Catalonia, said in a recent interview that it was unclear whether a formal referendum on separation would be open to legal immigrants.
Sikhs are among the immigrants here who express some empathy for the separatist movement, drawing a parallel with their own struggles at home. An estimated 13,000 of the 21,000 Sikhs who have moved to Spain since 2000, mostly from India's Punjab region, have settled in Catalonia.
Gagandeep Singh Khalsa, who is fluent in Spanish but prefers to speak Catalan, acts as a local spokesman and interpreter for his fellow Sikhs. ''I feel in harmony with the people here,'' he said, ''because we have been facing the same problems with India over the Punjab as they have with Spain.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Watching a Sikh band performing at a temple in Badalona, a city in Catalonia, which is considering separating from Spain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDU BAYER FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICS (87%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); RELIGION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); ROMANI PEOPLE (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); REFERENDUMS (67%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); INTERVIEWS (64%); LITIGATION (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (93%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (94%); MEDITERRANEAN SEA (79%) SPAIN (97%); EUROPE (79%); ROMANIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1275 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Envoy Says U.S. Stirs China-Japan Tensions

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ and KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- A longtime Chinese diplomat warned Tuesday that the United States is using Japan as a strategic tool in its effort to mount a comeback in Asia, a policy that he said is serving to heighten tensions between China and Japan.
The retired diplomat, Chen Jian, who served as an under secretary general of the United Nations and as China's ambassador to Japan, said the United States should restrain Tokyo and should focus its diplomatic efforts on bringing about negotiations between China and Japan over the disputed islands in the East China Sea known as the Diaoyu by China and the Senkaku by Japan. 
In an unusually biting assessment of the United States, Mr. Chen said: ''It is in the U.S. interest to quarrel with China, but not to fight with China.''
While Mr. Chen has retired from China's diplomatic service, his remarks were particularly significant because they represent the most detailed public exposition of China's views at a time when Chinese officials have been wary of making comments because of the approaching Communist Party Congress, which is scheduled to begin in Beijing on Nov. 8.
In the speech, which was organized by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs and was attended by half a dozen Chinese diplomats, Mr. Chen held out an olive branch by urging that discussions between Japan and China should start on ways to reduce the risk of clashes between Chinese and Japanese patrol vessels that have gotten perilously close off the islands in the last month.
But the thrust of his speech was more hard-hitting, particularly regarding the United States. Some in China and Japan see the issue of the islands ''as a time bomb planted by the U.S. between China and Japan,'' he said. ''That time bomb is now exploding or about to explode.''
Mr. Chen accused the United States of encouraging the right wing in Japan, and fanning a rise of militarism.
''The U.S. is urging Japan to play a greater role in the region in security terms, not just in economic terms,'' he said during his speech at the Foreign Correspondents' Club in Hong Kong. That ''suits the purpose of the right wing in Japan more than perfectly -- their long-held dream is now possible to be realized.''
The United States has said that, in the event of conflict, the disputed islands are covered by its mutual defense treaty with Japan, a position that China has severely criticized since the latest dispute flared last month.
Mr. Chen described what he called the intervention of the United States in territorial disputes in the South China Sea -- where China has been at odds with another American ally, the Philippines -- as a way for the United States to expand its influence and restrain the influence of China.
''Will these countries misjudge and draw China and the United States into a confrontation?'' Mr. Chen asked. ''The danger is apparent, and China needs to be aware of that.''
Mr. Chen, who is now dean of the School of International Studies at Renmin University in Beijing, offered a lengthy list of suggestions and assurances for how China hopes to resolve tensions with its neighbors.
''China does not seek to provoke incidents, and will not be the one to do so first,'' he said. He said that China had only sent administrative vessels to the disputed islands, not warships from its navy.
Mr. Chen said major changes in Chinese foreign policy were unlikely to follow the selection of a new leadership team at the Party Congress. ''I think it's going to be a smooth change, and the main tenets of our foreign policy will remain very much the same,'' he said.
By far the biggest threat to stability in the region are the islands where Japan and China are at odds. Little more than rocky outcrops in shark-infested waters, Japan won the islands as the spoils of war in the Sino-Japanese War in 1895. The United States took over administration of the islands at the end of World War II.
China expected that Japan as a defeated nation would have to give up the islands, and that they would be returned to China. But the islands were not returned, rankling China and Taiwan ever since -- a rare issue on which those two agree.
The San Francisco Peace Treaty between Japan and the Allies in 1951 did not clearly establish sovereignty of the islands.
In 1972, the United States returned the disputed islands to Japan, and Japan has administered them since. When China and Japan restored diplomatic relations in 1972, the leaders of the two countries decided to shelve the question of sovereignty of the islands until a future date.
The Obama administration has stated that even though it would come to Japan's side in the event of conflict over the islands, it takes no position on the sovereignty of the islands.
The issue burst into the open last month when the Japanese government announced it was purchasing several of the islands from a private family that has owned them for some years. China denounced the purchase as ''nationalization'' of the islands.
The government of Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda argued that it bought the islands to prevent them from falling into the hands of Shintaro Ishihara, a right-wing politician who last week announced he was leaving office as the governor of Tokyo.
Because the islands were transferred from one Japanese entity to another, Mr. Noda's government says that the status quo has not changed, and that there is no need to open negotiations with China over the issue at this time.
Japan and China have both had patrol vessels near the islands and each other in recent days. The Japanese Coast Guard and the Chinese State Oceanic Administration each said in separate statements on Tuesday that their vessels had demanded that the other side's ships should leave the area.
Prime Minister Wen Jiabao of China and Mr. Noda are scheduled to attend a meeting in Laos next week. The Japanese news media reported Tuesday that there were no plans for the two men to hold a formal talks to resolve differences, although they might have an informal meeting on the sidelines.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One of the uninhabited, disputed islands in the East China Sea known as the Diaoyu by China and the Senkaku by Japan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOSUKE OKAHARA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); EAST CHINA SEA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (79%) CHINA (98%); JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (93%); ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1276 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: 2 American Automakers Rebut Claims by Romney

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEREMY W. PETERS; Jim Rutenberg reported from Toledo, and Jeremy W. Peters from New York.

 BODY:
TOLEDO, Ohio -- Mitt Romney's latest advertising campaign suggesting that the auto bailout recipients Chrysler and General Motors were shifting jobs to China drew him into a public argument with top executives at both companies, who condemned the advertisements as false on Tuesday.
''The ad is cynical campaign politics at its worst,'' Greg Martin, a spokesman for General Motors, said in an interview late Tuesday. ''We think creating jobs in the U.S. and repatriating profits back in this country should be a source of bipartisan pride.'' 
General Motors was pulled into the fray on Tuesday after Mr. Romney began running a new radio advertisement in which an announcer says, ''Barack Obama says he saved the auto industry, but for who, Ohio or China?''
It went on to say that General Motors and Chrysler were planning to increase the number of cars they manufacture in China: ''What happened to the promises made to autoworkers in Toledo and throughout Ohio?''
It was a variation on a television ad running here that reports that Chrysler, which produces Jeeps here, is planning to ''return Jeep output to China.''
The spot has been widely criticized for leaving the misleading impression that Chrysler is planning to shift jobs here in Toledo to China. In fact, Chrysler says that it is discussing new plants for sales in China that do not affect American hiring, and that it is adding workers in Toledo. The spot earned a ''Pants on Fire'' designation from the fact-checking site Politifact.
In an e-mail to employees on Tuesday, Chrysler's executive, Sergio Marchionne, said that Jeep's commitment to the United States was unequivocal. ''I feel obliged to unambiguously restate our position: Jeep production will not be moved from the United States to China,'' he wrote. ''It is inaccurate to suggest anything different.''
Mr. Marchionne's response came as the auto bailout took center stage in the fight for Ohio's 18 electoral votes.
The politics of the auto bailout have become a vexing problem for Mr. Romney. He opposed Mr. Obama's approach to what was an $80 billion bailout, and some supporters in the Midwest have questioned his stance that Chrysler and General Motors should have gone through bankruptcies without federal bailout funds. They argued that such financing was not available at what was the height of the financial crisis.
As his campaign increases its focus on winning in this critical state -- where polls have continually given a slight edge to Mr. Obama -- it has sought to undermine the support the bailout is giving Mr. Obama here.
It was unclear whether Mr. Romney's new strategy is advantageous, given the reaction.
The Romney campaign has insisted that its ad merely states the truth: Jeeps are not currently made in China and soon will be, creating jobs there instead of at home. ''It would be better if they expanded production in the U.S. instead of expanding in China,'' said Stuart Stevens, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney.
''That is absolutely bereft of any fundamental understanding of the global automotive industry,'' Mr. Martin said. ''All global manufacturers, whether General Motors, Ford, Chrysler or VW, build historically in the markets in which we sell.''
Mr. Martin said that General Motors had invested $7.3 billion in United States production since 2009 and ''brought nearly 19,000 back to work.''
Mr. Stevens said that he agreed with Mr. Martin's statement that General Motors' recovery should be a source of bipartisan pride, but that Mr. Romney's proposed policies would make it easier for companies like G.M. to produce cars for export.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); SERGIO MARCHIONNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1277 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Nation's Home Prices Rose 2% in August

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Home prices rose in August in nearly all American cities, and many of the markets hit hardest during the crisis are starting to show sustained gains. The increases were the latest evidence of a steady housing recovery. 
The Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller index that was released on Tuesday showed that national home prices increased 2 percent in August compared with a year earlier. This was the third straight increase and a faster pace than in July.
The report also said that prices rose in August from July in 19 of the 20 cities tracked by the index. Prices had risen in all 20 cities in the previous three months.
Cities that had experienced some of the worst price declines during the housing crisis are starting to come back. Prices in Las Vegas rose 0.9 percent, the first year-over-year gain since January 2007. Prices in Phoenix are 18.8 percent higher in August than a year earlier. Home values in Tampa and Miami have also posted solid increases over the period.
Seattle was the only city to report a monthly decline. Still, prices there fell just 0.1 percent in August from July and are 3.4 percent higher than a year earlier.
Prices in Atlanta have fallen 6.1 percent over the 12 months that ended in August, the largest year-over-year decline. But Atlanta has posted the largest price gain among the 20 cities over the last three months, according to Trulia, a housing analysis firm.
''The sustained good news in home prices over the past five months makes us optimistic for continued recovery in the housing market,'' said David Blitzer, chairman of the Case-Shiller index.
The steady increase in prices has helped many home markets slowly rebound nearly six years after the housing bubble burst, lifted further by the lowest mortgage rates in decades.
The S.& P./Case-Shiller index covers roughly half of American homes. It measures prices compared with those in January 2000 and creates a three-month moving average. The figures are not seasonally adjusted, so some August gains reflect the benefit of the summer buying season.
Stan Humphries, chief economist at the housing Web site Zillow.com, expects the monthly price figures will decline in the fall and winter. ''This doesn't mean the housing recovery has been derailed,'' he said. ''This is exactly what bouncing along the bottom looks like.''
Other recent reports, on construction and sales, have also shown an improving market, albeit from depressed levels.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (94%); HOME PRICES (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: TRULIA INC (58%); ZILLOW INC (55%)

TICKER: TRLA (NYSE) (58%); Z (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1278 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Weakness In Europe Undercuts Ford's Profit

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The Ford Motor Company said it expected its profits in North America to support the rest of the company for the foreseeable future as it struggles with losses in Europe and mixed results elsewhere.
Ford, the second-largest American automaker, after General Motors, on Tuesday reported flat profits for the third quarter, as the sharp downturn in its European business continued to undercut its strong performance in the North American market. The company said that it earned $1.63 billion in the quarter, compared with $1.65 billion in the same period last year. Its global revenues dropped slightly to $32.1 billion, down from $33.1 billion in the third quarter of 2011.
The results underscored both Ford's success in its home market and its festering problems in Europe, where the auto market has fallen to its lowest sales levels in nearly 20 years. 
Ford said its pretax profits in North America increased to $2.32 billion in the quarter, from $1.55 billion a year ago. The results were driven by new vehicles like the Escape S.U.V. and higher transaction prices.
But its European operations floundered because of lower sales and higher incentives. Ford reported a pretax loss of $468 million in the region during the quarter, compared with a pretax loss of $306 million in the third quarter last year.
The company forecast severe economic conditions in Europe into 2013 and possibly beyond. Ford's chief financial officer, Robert L. Shanks, said it would be up to the North American operations to provide the bulk of its income until Europe recovers.
''It has been the foundation and still is,'' Mr. Shanks said of the North American market.
Ford has now lost more than $1 billion in Europe this year, and has said it expects its full-year loss to exceed $1.5 billion. Last week, the company said it would close three factories in the region and eliminate 5,700 jobs to better balance production there with shrinking demand for new vehicles.
Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said the automaker would continue to face stiff challenges in Europe as it restructured. ''While we are facing near-term challenges in Europe, we are fully committed to transforming our business,'' he said in a statement.
Other auto companies in Europe have so far resisted making large-scale overhauls like Ford's.
''This industry has a lot of excess capacity and needs to restructure,'' Mr. Shanks said. ''It won't get any better if other companies avoid the situation.''
He said the company expected ''difficult and interesting'' discussions with its unions in Belgium and Britain about separation agreements for factory workers.
Ford's other regional operations contributed little to its bottom line during the quarter. The company said it earned $45 million in pretax profits in Asia, in contrast to a $43 million loss a year ago. Pretax profits in South America fell to $9 million from $276 million a year ago.
The healthy profits in North America reflect Ford's turnaround in its home market since a financial crisis crippled the United States auto industry in 2008. Unlike its rivals General Motors and Chrysler, Ford survived without a government bailout or filing for bankruptcy.
Since then, Ford has revamped its product lineup to offer a broader range of smaller, more efficient models. The company said its operating profits in North America were its highest since 2000, and it forecast similar results through the remainder of 2012.
''Ford's more balanced product mix, with a stronger presence in the small-car segments, enabled the company to operate at highly profitable levels in the North American and Asian markets, whereas the European operations continued to struggle,'' said Jesse Toprak, an analyst with the auto-research Web site TrueCar.
Ford ended the quarter with $24.1 billion in automotive cash reserves, an improvement from $20.8 billion a year ago.
The company produced 1.36 million vehicles in the third quarter, about the same number as a year ago. Ford said it would build 1.48 million cars, trucks and S.U.V.'s in the fourth quarter, an increase of 112,000 from the same period in 2011.
General Motors, the largest American automaker, is scheduled to report its third-quarter earnings on Wednesday. Chrysler, which has little exposure in the European market, said Monday that its profits improved 80 percent during the period.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Assembly workers in Louisville, Ky., building a Ford Escape, the S.U.V. that helped lift the company's North American income. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN BOHANNON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1279 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Captured by a Camera, a Poetry of Lost and Missed Connections

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
''Can you look sad?'' the photographer Gregory Crewdson asks a young mother as she gazes with delight on her gurgling newborn.
For Mr. Crewdson, whose painstakingly constructed images seem to yearn for some impossible human connection, melancholy is as integral to his vision as a fog machine and the mystical caul of twilight. Frozen in a cheap motel room or a snowbound diner, his subjects pose with beaten-down expressions, encouraging us to create our own narrative. It doesn't have a happy ending. 
In ''Gregory Crewdson: Brief Encounters,'' the director Ben Shapiro accompanied Mr. Crewdson from 2005-9, focusing primarily on the creation of his major series ''Beneath the Roses.'' Originally conceived as a movie (Mr. Crewdson admits to being profoundly influenced by David Lynch's ''Blue Velvet''), the photographs have a theatrical resonance that Mr. Shapiro sees no need to embellish.
Instead, he listens as this Brooklyn-raised photographer recalls a childhood fascination with the work of his father, a psychoanalyst who saw patients in the family basement, and a stint with the band the Speedies. Their sole hit was the prophetically titled ''Let Me Take Your Photo,'' and it seems a long way from that bouncy ditty to the dioramas of despair that haunt this film. But though the medium has changed, the performer -- whether on obsessively appointed sets or elaborately tweaked outdoor locations -- remains evident.
Returning again and again to the sapped small towns of western Massachusetts, Mr. Crewdson is an artist incurably hooked on decline. ''He shuts streets down and does wacky stuff,'' a self-described junk picker (soon to feature prominently in the wackiness) tells us, as Mr. Crewdson, trailing an entourage of lighting and construction experts, snaps emptied-out car lots and yawning homes.
But even if, as the writer Rick Moody suggests, a swipe at capitalism is implicit in these photos, it doesn't distract: the flotsam of a failed economy, like the imprint of long-ago family vacations, is just so much grist for the forlorn fictions their maker labors so obsessively to express.
With marvelous discipline, Mr. Shapiro crams a wealth of material into a tight 77 minutes, smoothly communicating the group effort required to achieve the perfect shot. A few intimates, like Mr. Moody and the photographer Laurie Simmons, show up to offer perspectives on the work, but Mr. Crewdson's unsettling ability to evoke the ineluctable void between observer and observed -- and between one human being and another -- is beyond the reach of words. Easier to articulate, perhaps, are the layers of need that drive his efforts, resulting in images that he views as ''backdrops for a more submerged psychological drama.''
That drama, the film suggests, began way back in a Brooklyn basement, where a father once listened to the secrets of strangers. Now his son, through the magic of art, is able to imagine what those secrets might have been.
Gregory Crewdson
Brief Encounters
Opens on Wednesday in Manhattan.
Produced and directed by Ben Shapiro; director of photography, Mr. Shapiro; edited by Tom Patterson and Nancy Kennedy; music by Dana Kaproff; released by Zeitgeist Films. At Film Forum, 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village. Running time: 1 hour 17 minutes. This film is not rated.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Gregory Crewdson: Brief Encounters,'' a documentary about this photographer, includes works like ''Untitled (Birth).'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY CREWDSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); FILM (74%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (71%); POETRY (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); WRITERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1280 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Just Outside the City, And Building Bedrooms

BYLINE: By RONDA KAYSEN

 BODY:
HARRISON, N.J. -- Sitting in his office, surrounded by Halloween kitsch and posters of building designs, the mayor of Harrison talks like a man who has been selling an idea for a long time. After 15 years, his vision to transform this long-forsaken industrial town into a bedroom community for single, young professionals is finally taking shape.
A flurry of development is under way in this 1.2-mile-long town along the Passaic River, across from Newark. A 275-unit upscale apartment building was fully leased within seven months of its 2011 opening. On the heels of that success, other developers have broken ground on residential, retail and commercial projects in a redevelopment zone that circles the town's New Jersey PATH station.
Nine developers have pledged $650 million over 10 years to transform 275 acres of abandoned, deteriorating manufacturing buildings into the next outpost on New Jersey's Gold Coast. In all, a third of Harrison will be rebuilt, adding 3,000 units of housing to a town with 14,500 residents. When the work is finished, a community that was once a bustling manufacturing hub will depend on commuters looking for affordable, chic housing. 
''What alternative do we have? It's going to create jobs, I hope,'' said the town's mayor, Raymond McDonough, a retired plumber who has been mayor for nearly 18 years. ''It's going to create tax revenue for the town.'' The amount of taxes the town can collect, however, will be limited by a 30-year tax abatement granted to the developers.
In the most critical improvement for the area, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey will begin work this year on a $256 million upgrade of the town's 76-year-old PATH station. Developers are pinning their hopes for the area on the PATH train, which provides a 25-minute ride to Manhattan.
Developers hope that the virtually unknown Harrison -- unlike nearby Newark, which has struggled to shake its downtrodden image -- can draw commuters priced out of the trendy Hoboken and Jersey City markets.
Damage caused by Hurricane Sandy, of course, may lead to construction delays at the station and at other projects in the area.
More than two million passengers used Harrison Station in 2011. By 2022, the agency expects ridership to rise to 3.4 million. The station upgrade will expand the station platform to allow for trains with more cars.
''The jewel here is the train station. That's your raw material,'' said Jeffrey J. Milanaik, president of Heller Industrial Parks, which is demolishing several turn-of-the-century factories on a 10-acre parcel near Frank E. Rodgers Boulevard. Early next year, Heller will begin work on 95 rental units and 15,000 square feet of retail, the first phase of a $200 million plan to build 747 units of housing.
Other new developments are also under way: Advance Realty broke ground in September on a 50,000-square-foot research and technology center for Panasonic; Advance is also building, with Russo Development, a 326-unit rental property with 1,000 square feet of retail; Millennium Homes and the Roseland Property Company will break ground next month on 140 rental units on First Street; and work will begin this fall on a 138-room Element hotel.
Rents are lower in Harrison than in other towns along the PATH line. The average rent for an apartment in the new development is $1,863 a month, compared with $2,900 in Hoboken or $3,067 in Jersey City, according to data provided by Brian J. Whitmer, a senior director at Cushman and Wakefield.
''Harrison is the next step out,'' Mr. Whitmer said. ''If you can't afford $3,000 a month to live in Hoboken, but you want new construction and entertainment, you can come to Harrison.''
For now, amenities are sparse. The new rental building, Harrison Station at 300 Somerset Street, has 12,800 square feet of retail, but only two spaces are filled, with a Five Guys Burger and Fries and a deli that sells some groceries. Pro Cuts, GNC, a dry cleaner and a Japanese restaurant are expected to open in the next few months.
''Harrison is really like new build,'' said David Barry, president of Ironstate Development Company, which built 300 Somerset Street with the Pegasus Group. ''We're creating a neighborhood from whole cloth and trying to give it a sense of place.''
By the end of the year, the team will break ground on the Element hotel, an extended-stay hotel that will charge visitors about $150 a night. The seven-story hotel will sit across the street from 300 Somerset, wrapping around a 1,440-car garage the team built in 2010. The Hudson County Improvement Authority operates the garage and Harrison receives the revenue from it. Eventually, Ironstate and Pegasus plan to build five more apartment buildings with about 2,000 units and 67,000 square feet of retail.
Mr. McDonough hatched the redevelopment plan in 1998, and it has been plagued by setbacks ever since. The Sept. 11 attacks delayed the project. But by 2006, a 170-room Hampton Inn had opened along the river. And in 2007, the first condo development opened: River Park at Harrison, an 86-unit riverfront complex built by Roseland and Millennium. But by the time the second phase opened in 2008, the economy had collapsed and the developers struggled to sell units. Their problems were worsened by a neighboring property: a chemical plant that turned off buyers.
Even the successes had problems. After the $200 million Red Bull Arena -- home of the New York Red Bulls, the major league soccer team -- opened in the redevelopment zone in 2010, the town was mired in a tax dispute with the arena's owners. Without the revenue stream, the town could not make bond payments on the $39 million it had borrowed to buy the land for the 2,500-seat arena. In 2011, Moody's Investment Services downgraded Harrison's credit rating to junk.
''The stadium has seriously endangered Harrison's ability to maintain its governmental functions with the debt load that it's now carrying,'' said Gordon MacInnes, president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a government watchdog group.
The courts ruled in Harrison's favor in January and in July the arena's owners paid $5.6 million in back taxes. During the dispute, the town raised property taxes and cut municipal jobs. In August, Moody's revised the town's credit outlook to positive.
Red Bull declined to comment on the tax dispute, citing the continuing legal case. The owners could still appeal.
''It didn't work out the way we planned, but we're getting there,'' said Mr. McDonough.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New construction next to 300 Somerset Street in Harrison, N.J., where retail and residential development is booming. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NADAV NEUHAUS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (88%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); TRAINS (74%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); TAX INCENTIVES (64%); TAX LAW (64%); PORT AUTHORITIES (63%); HURRICANES (60%); JOB CREATION (51%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1281 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: After Weak Returns, the Endowment Fund Limits Withdrawals

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
The sales pitch for the fund was simple: a chance for individual investors to get in on the same high-octane private equity and hedge funds that have fueled successful returns for large university endowments for years.
But now investors in the fund, the nine-year-old, $3.3 billion Endowment Fund, are finding it was much easier to get in than it is to get out.
The fund, run by Mark Yusko, the charismatic former chief of the endowment for the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, sent letters on Friday to investors saying it was limiting the amount of money that could be taken out each quarter. Investors withdrew more than $1 billion, or about a quarter of the fund's assets, this year through September, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Investors generally have been disappointed with hedge fund returns for the last couple of years because many have lagged the gains made in the stock market. Investors have pulled about $13.2 billion, or 2 percent of total assets, from hedge funds for the year through August, according to estimates by BarclayHedge and TrimTabs Investment Research. The firms estimate that in the 3,000 hedge funds that they track, assets have fallen 28.7 percent from their peak of $2.4 trillion in 2008 through a combination of weak performance and withdrawals. 
But hedge fund investors and lawyers said the move by the Endowment Fund was one of the first forms of gating, or reducing the ability of investors to take out their money, since the financial crisis. Then, several large hedge funds gated, angering their investors who could not get access to their money.
The troubles at the Endowment Fund are a black eye for Mr. Yusko, a frequent speaker at investment conferences who, after leaving the University of North Carolina in 2004, built a substantial hedge fund empire that at its peak in 2008 controlled $22 billion in assets. Today, he oversees $14 billion.
Mr. Yusko declined to comment on Monday.
He started the Endowment Fund in 2003 with Salient Partners, a Houston firm that managed money for wealthy individuals. It is a fund that invests in dozens of other funds, including some run by prominent managers who have stumbled in recent years, like John A. Paulson, Philip A. Falcone and Eric Mindich.
Several experts were quick to say they saw the gating at the Endowment Fund as a reflection of what that fund had invested in, not as a general trend among funds. About 35 percent of the fund's assets are invested in real estate, energy and private equity assets -- investments that the fund simply could not exit quickly if investors were to demand their cash.
The substantial redemptions in the Endowment Fund follow several years of weak returns. For the 12 months ending late August, the fund was down 2.5 percent, compared with an 18 percent gain in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and a 0.9 percent decline in the average hedge fund. Over the last five years, the Endowment Fund returned 5.7 percent annually, lagging the 7.7 percent gain by the S.&. P. 500 and the 7.3 percent annual gain by the average hedge fund.
''Hedge funds, as an asset class, have underperformed the stock market and there are definitely some investors out there who feel like they haven't been invited to the party,'' said Stewart Massey, a partner at Massey Quick in Morristown, N.J., which invests money for individuals and institutions.
But the fees investors have paid the Endowment Fund for its lukewarm performance have been considerable, up to about 3.5 percent a year. Additionally, the underlying funds can receive as much as 25 percent of any profits they make.
On top of that, some of the fund's investors who came in through Merrill Lynch financial advisers may have paid as much as a 2.5 percent upfront fee, similar to what is charged for other funds, according to internal Merrill Lynch documents.
A spokesman for Bank of America, which acquired Merrill Lynch in 2009, declined to answer specific questions about the Endowment Fund. But he did confirm that the wealth management arm of Bank of America on Friday changed the Endowment Fund's status from ''open,'' to ''on hold,'' meaning that wealthy investors could not put any new or additional money into the fund.
Over his career, Mr. Yusko has advocated for ways to make available to a broader audience more sophisticated long-term investment products, like real estate, private equity and hedge funds. He embraced them starting in the late 1990s when he arrived at the University of North Carolina to oversee its endowment.
In a few years, he had moved more than 80 percent of the endowment's money from stocks and bonds into a wide array of hedge funds and private equity investments, according to Institutional Investor. Those bets paid off for the endowment as it easily outpaced the S.& P. 500.
After leaving North Carolina, Mr. Yusko started Morgan Creek Capital Management in Chapel Hill as a way to spread that endowment model to other investors. He started the Endowment Fund separately with Salient Partners.
A spokeswoman for Salient declined to comment.
For as little as a $100,000 initial investment, wealthy individuals could invest in the Endowment Fund. It was one of the first hedge funds to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission using the Registered Investment Company structure that allowed an unlimited number of investors.
At one point, the Endowment Fund accumulated some 20,000 investors, with a big boost from Merrill Lynch's army of financial advisers, who earned lucrative commissions by selling the fund. The fund grew even after steep losses in the financial crisis, soaring 42 percent in 2008 to $4.7 billion.
At his peak in 2008, Mr. Yusko oversaw nearly $22 billion in assets at Morgan Creek and other funds. In 2009, he made a $35 million pledge to his alma mater, the University of Notre Dame, to create a merit scholarship program. It was one of the largest gifts to the university.
But the Endowment Fund began to struggle in 2011, suffering losses of about 4.1 percent, after fees, compared with a gain of 2.5 percent by the S.& P. 500.
Earlier this year, outflows from the fund began to significantly outpace inflows. In the quarter ending in March, investors pulled $316 million from the fund, and another $440 million in the next quarter. In the quarter ending in September, investors withdrew nearly $488 million.
''What this fund was counting on was continued inflows from Merrill's distribution system in order to maintain its liquidity,'' said a former Merrill Lynch adviser, who did not want to be identified.
''This is a big deal because now what's going to happen is that the line out the door is going to become permanent but there will be no more sales,'' the former adviser added.
In its letter to investors, the Endowment Fund said it was temporarily reducing the amount investors could take out to a 5 percent distribution in a given quarter, from what one document suggests was 10 percent.
The letter added that the fund's adviser and board ''have determined that further significant repurchases at this time would be incompatible with managing the fund in accordance with its stated objectives.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Yusko started the $3.3 billion Endowment Fund in 2003. In recent years, its performance had trailed the S.&. P. 500. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MCCARTEN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); ENDOWMENTS (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); TRENDS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); AFFLUENT MARKET (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1282 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: SMART BUSINESS IN CENTRAL EUROPE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Bulgarian Company Homes In on Technological Niche

BYLINE: By BORYANA DZHAMBAZOVA

 BODY:
Ten years after it started in business, Telerik, a Bulgarian software company, has conquered a niche position in the international information technology market and continues to expand.
Telerik sells user interface components, content management solutions and Microsoft developer tools that allow programmers to build their own applications. More than 100,000 clients in 94 countries now use its products, including brands as well known as Nike, Nokia and Mercedes-Benz, and international organizations like the World Bank and the U.S. space agency, NASA.
Founded by four friends in 2002, the company has grown rapidly by targeting customers far beyond Bulgaria's borders rather than limiting itself to the small local market. 
''America has the most developed information technologies market and thus we have the biggest number of clients in North America,'' said Svetozar Georgiev, co-founder and chief executive.
In 2006 Telerik chose the United States to open its first office abroad. Four years later it added to its U.S. exposure by buying ArtOfTest, a producer of software testing tools.
''We discover interesting small companies whose projects, or just their teams, complement well our company,'' Mr. Georgiev said in an e-mail. ''As the Silicon Valley drives IT development and innovation, the United States as a whole is an incubator of targets we're interested to acquire.''
Bulgaria, which joined the European Union in 2007, has positioned itself as having one of the fastest-developing information technology industries in Europe. Low labor costs and taxes, and a pool of talented IT professionals have made Sofia a favored outsourcing destination for many foreign computer companies. Still, the economic crisis of the past three years has not passed the sector by.
The domestic IT market in Bulgaria shrank by 15 percent in 2009 and has not yet fully recovered, said Lubomir Dimitrov, a research analyst in Sofia for IDC, an international market intelligence company that follows the IT industry. However, he said, software companies had been affected less than most of the industry by the crisis. A survey by the Bulgarian Association of Software Companies showed that in 2011 their sales grew by 6 percent, an increase generated mainly by exports.
''Many companies have focused their efforts on foreign markets, which are more mature and tend to grow much more compared to Bulgaria,'' Mr. Dimitrov said.
As one of those companies, Telerik has continued to expand even during the crisis. In addition to its U.S. branches, it has offices in Germany, Britain, Canada, Australia and India. Since 2008 its work force has grown to 650 people, adding more than 150 jobs in the past year.
Alan Zeichick, co-founder and editorial director of SD Times, a U.S. software development magazine, said Telerik had established itself as a leading maker of Microsoft-based tools. ''We consider Telerik as one of the innovators in the field of reusable software components for Windows and .NET developers,'' he said.
For six years in a row Telerik has made it into the SD Times's annual Top 100 ranking of the leading and most innovative companies in the field. ''We have been impressed each year with both the quality of Telerik's software tools, but also the new features that they consistently add to each new version,'' Mr. Zeichick said.
In 2010 the company also received Microsoft's Partner of the Year award for Central and Eastern Europe.
James Mundy, co-founder and developer at Mendzapp, a tech start-up in Sheffield, England, said he had used Telerik's controls in some of Mendzapp's Windows Phone applications for over a year, because they were, he said, ''the best available for Windows Phone.''
''They make adding complex functionality to apps quick and pain-free, as well as significantly reducing the development time needed,'' he said in an e-mail. Noting that price was also a factor, he added: ''Being a small student start-up we don't have a great deal of money.'' A suite of Telerik Radcontrols development tools bought for $99 ''certainly paid for themselves one year on.''
Telerik continues to expand: This year it bought NimblePros, a developer of custom software solutions, its third U.S. acquisition since 2010.
Telerik refused to disclose financial details of the deals but Mr. Georgiev said they were all financed from the company's own funds. ''We didn't need to raise any capital,'' he said.
Mr. Georgiev said that finding the right people was the key to the company's successful expansion.
In Bulgaria, where demand for qualified IT specialists is now outstripping the available supply, Telerik promotes itself as the only company in the country that offers free training courses.
In 2009, it set up an academy for software engineers. So far 510 have enrolled -- though not all stay the course -- and the annual intake is rising. This year about 1,000 started the program, of whom Telerik plans to hire about 150.
''You cannot find hundreds of great developers per year, neither in Bulgaria nor in the U.S.,'' said Svetlin Nakov, Telerik's technical training manager. ''That's why we find people with potential to become outstanding developers and we train them.''
In the long term, Telerik plans to set up its own technical university with an enrollment of up to 30,000 students.
''My dream is to increase the scale, extend the scope and make Bulgaria the Silicon Valley in Europe,'' said Svetlin Nakov, Telerik's manager for technical training.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); SPACE INDUSTRY (73%); SOFTWARE TESTING & QUALITY ASSURANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); BULGARIA (90%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); INDIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1283 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: For Flood Victims, Another Blow Is Possible

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT and MARY WILLIAMS WALSH; Edward Wyatt reported from Washington and Mary Williams Walsh from Philadelphia.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Home and business owners across a dozen states awoke on Tuesday to an unpleasant reality: significant portions of their property damage caused by flooding from Hurricane Sandy are unlikely to be covered by insurance.
Thousands of homeowners in New York, New Jersey and nearby states added flood insurance last year after Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee swamped much of the same area with heavy rains.
But many others are likely to find that their flood insurance policies have lapsed or that they wrongly assumed their homeowners' policy would cover the damage. That is a common misunderstanding, according to insurance experts. 
Flood insurance ''is mandatory if you have a federally backed mortgage and you're living in a flood-risk area,'' said Erwann O. Michel-Kerjan, managing director of the Wharton Risk Management and Decision Processes Center at the University of Pennsylvania.
But, he added, ''the reality is slightly different. After many events, we realize that many people who were supposed to have that coverage were not covered.''
Just how many people face losses from this week's storms is not yet known, according to officials at the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which administers the National Flood Insurance Program. The program subsidizes premiums on policies that are sold through private brokers.
Although local communities work with the agency to require coverage for residents in flood zones, the federal government does not track how many people in those areas lack coverage.
Enforcement of the requirements also is spotty. Most mortgage lenders require that buyers in certain property zones have flood insurance before closing on a home purchase. But relatively few monitor compliance with the requirement when the coverage expires, meaning that some homeowners inevitably allow their policies to lapse.
Even those who are current in their federal flood policies could find that all of their losses are not covered. Policies on residences of any type are limited to coverage limits of $250,000 on the structures and $100,000 of contents, and businesses are bound by $500,000 in building coverage and another $500,000 in contents.
For Hurricane Sandy, taxpayers could be responsible for $5 billion to $10 billion of total property damages estimated at twice that amount. This is because flood victims living in federal disaster areas will be eligible to receive aid, under certain circumstances, even if they don't have flood insurance. Among the programs are one offering grants of up to $30,000 and another consisting of loans from the Small Business Administration -- available to homeowners as well -- that carry a 4 percent interest rate.
That will be the case even though significant changes to the program were signed into law by President Obama in July. Among the most drastic changes is that vacation homes, businesses and properties with severe and repetitive losses will lose their flood-insurance subsidies, allowing premiums for those holdings to increase by 25 percent each year until they reach market rates -- or what nonsubsidized private insurers would charge for the same policy.
Those changes stemmed from criticism that the program was largely a giveaway for wealthy beachfront property owners. Without it, they say, fewer people would be willing to take the risk of living in flood zones, particularly near the ocean.
Whether the move to market rates will survive over the long term is uncertain, at best. Real estate lobbyists, a powerful constituency in Washington, have long pushed to keep the price low for flood insurance policies because it makes it easier to sell homes in flood-prone areas.
But the new law will require market rates for newly purchased property, any property that has improvements exceeding 30 percent of its value or any new policy or renewal of a lapsed policy.
Even with those changes, the long-term survival of the program remains uncertain, according to government auditors, who have cataloged inefficiencies and management problems for years.
The program has about $18 billion in debts, said Orice Williams Brown, director of financial markets and community investment at the Government Accountability Office. Most of those debts are legacies of Hurricane Katrina, which caused such huge insurance losses that the federal program had to borrow money from the Treasury.
There are some bright spots in the flood insurance outlook, however. Thousands of homeowners who experienced flood losses this week now have coverage -- thanks to the fact that they also suffered losses a year ago, from floods caused by Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee.
One stipulation of receiving federal disaster money for uninsured damage caused by flooding is that the home or business owner is then required to buy flood insurance. When they do, the coverage is entered into a federal database, according to a FEMA spokesman, and the agency checks each recipient for new disaster aid against lists of previous events.
According to FEMA statistics, since last year's storm damage, the number of federal flood policies covering properties in Pennsylvania grew by more than 7 percent, to 72,521 at the end of August. The number in New York State rose 3 percent to 168,905, while policies in New Jersey grew 2.3 percent, to 236,038.
Still, plenty of homeowners resist buying coverage, said Mr. Michel-Kerjan. ''You often hear, 'I was never flooded, so I didn't think I needed that,' '' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jason Locke swept water and mud out the door of his parents' house in Westport, Mass., on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER PEREIRA/THE STANDARD TIMES OF NEW BEDFORD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FLOODS & FLOODING (91%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); FLOOD ZONES (90%); FLOOD INSURANCE (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); WEATHER (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); LEGISLATION (66%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (64%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1284 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Revitalizing a Dead Mall (Don't Expect Shoppers)

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
SAN ANTONIO -- Where others saw an abandoned shopping mall with weeds growing in the parking lot, graffiti on the walls and homeless men camping out in what was once the food court, Graham Weston, chairman and co-founder of Rackspace, a Web hosting company here, envisioned a corporate headquarters.
''I thought, This is going to be awesome!'' the infectiously enthusiastic Mr. Weston said of his idea five years ago to move Rackspace's operations to the defunct Windsor Park Mall in northeast San Antonio. ''But everybody else pretty much thought I was crazy.''
Today, his idea to move his company to the very mall where he got the blue ruffle tuxedo he wore to his junior prom seems more innovative than insane, with 3,200 Rackspace employees keystroking in cubicles set up where retailers like J. C. Penny, Zales, Casual Corner and Piercing Pagoda used to be. The project suggests that there might be hidden opportunities in the nation's glut of dead and dying malls and represents one of the country's largest and quirkiest recycling efforts. 
As ruefully documented on the Web site Deadmalls.com, the recession has shuttered scores of enclosed malls in the United States, and estate analysts at the CoStar Group predict that at least 10 percent of the remaining 1,500 malls will fail in the next few years. This is despite recent improvements in retail sales, because shoppers these days are more likely to visit free-standing stores or strip centers than invest time and effort entering and navigating a mall.
Most dead malls are razed, but some have been repurposed, like the Penn-Can Mall in Cicero, N.Y., which now houses several auto dealerships. Malls in Florida, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, New Jersey and Ohio have become mixed-used spaces, incorporating apartments and unconventional tenants like government offices, churches, medical clinics and satellite university campuses. Rackspace's mall conversion, though, is unique in that it is the exclusive owner and occupant.
Mr. Weston was in a bind in 2007. Rackspace had outgrown the 200,000-square-foot office space it had leased just two years earlier in northwest San Antonio. The growing company, founded in 1998 in a garage apartment, was adding 600 employees a year.
And these employees, who call themselves Rackers, were cramped, cranky and craving a corporate campus like those of their competitors Amazon, Microsoft and Google. Needless to say, they were not enthusiastic at the suggestion that they decamp to a decrepit suburban mall, despite Mr. Weston's assurances that it would be ''totally cool.''
''A lot of Rackers worked at Foot Locker in the mall, and the last thing they wanted to do is go away to school, get the fancy degree and come back and work at the mall,'' said Lanham Napier, the chief executive at Rackspace, who admits that he shared their resistance. ''I thought Graham was nuts,'' he said.
There was also some trepidation that the frugal Mr. Weston just wanted cheap office space and wasn't going to do much more than slap a coat of paint on the mall and set up card tables and folding chairs as office furniture.
Despite an estimated net worth of $1.2 billion, Mr. Weston, 48, lives modestly with his wife and three children in a 2,300-square-foot double-wide trailer on the banks of the Guadalupe River just outside of San Antonio. In addition to being a successful dot-com and real estate investor, he descends from British nobility on his mother's side and Canadian grocery magnates on his father's side, whose holdings include Twinings tea, Karo syrup, Fleishmann's yeast, Fortnum & Mason and Selfridges.
Mr. Weston was indeed looking for a good deal, but he also had a grand vision of creating a tech mecca comparable to Austin's so-called Silicon Hills, located 60 miles east of the mall and home to Dell and Hoover's. He hired the New Urbanism pioneer Andres Duany to conceive a master development plan emphasizing diversity, sustainability and walkability.
''I grew up on a cattle ranch not far from the mall, and it was where we came as kids,'' the boyish and bespectacled Mr. Weston said. ''Rackspace desperately needed more space, true, but I wanted us to be leaders in the community, not just squatters.''
Undeterred by his employees' opposition, he negotiated to buy the mall for a bargain-basement $27 million. Rackspace also received $72 million in tax abatements and development grants from the State of Texas and the City of Windcrest, a struggling suburb adjacent to the mall. As a precursor to the deal, Windcrest had assumed taxing authority on the property from San Antonio. Windcrest, which has a population of 5,600, had been losing $100,000 in tax revenue annually since the mall closed in 2005.
''Mr. Weston was a tough negotiator and was certainly taking care of his company,'' said Ray Watson, who was the executive director of the Windcrest Economic Development Corporation at the time. ''We started out offering about half of what they ended up getting, but the good thing is that they took care of the community.''
Rackspace agreed to pay $5 million for infrastructure improvements and also promised to make payments in lieu of property taxes to the local school district in an amount equivalent to what the district received when the mall was vacant. The Rackspace Foundation has also donated $2.5 million to the community, money that has gone primarily to the schools.
Moreover, the company has spent in excess of $100 million to transform the mall from an eyesore into an eccentric work space with a $40,000 two-story slide, a chessboard the size of a basketball court and conference rooms named after popular television game shows and breakfast cereals.
Shops and restaurants now encircle the mall, hoping to lure Rackspace employees, whose average salary is $69,000, far above the local average of $37,000. Stratford Land, a real estate development company based in Dallas, purchased 111 acres nearby in January, promising to build restaurants, shops and multifamily housing for Rackers.
''We feel blessed and fortunate to have the right space at the right time for Rackspace,'' said Rafael Castillo, Windcrest's city manager. ''They've given us a sense of stability and opportunity going forward.'' Windcrest's tax revenue has increased 10 percent every year since Rackspace acquired the mall, and the city expects to be debt-free by 2014. With these results, it's hard to find anyone in the city who begrudges Rackspace's generous incentive package.
Half of the mall's 1.2 million square feet has been transformed so far, primarily into employee work space. The company's data servers are stored in other states and abroad. The mall now has a soaring metallic half-arch over the entry and the interior has locally sourced stone accents, green-colored carpeting, towering ficus trees and additional skylights to give it a more natural feel, but there's no mistaking what the building once was.
''It's hard to church up a mall into anything else,'' said Adam Hansen, a customer care manager at Rackspace. ''No matter what you put in here, you still think, Nope, this was a mall,'' which is part of its appeal, he said.
Perks include free soda machines, an exercise room, coffee bar, recreation areas for playing video games and meals catered daily by different area restaurants. The company also sets up an enormous white tent in the parking lot every Tuesday and Friday, under which 10 to 12 food trucks park, lending a festival atmosphere at lunchtime.
And in the next few months, Mr. Weston said the company would break ground on a neighborhood park that would encompass several acres surrounding the mall. The design will include gardens, playing fields, jogging trails, a cafe, water features, outdoor art, a performance venue and a dog run.
''Our headquarters is a representation of our values as a company,'' Mr. Weston said. ''We are ambitious, we are expansive, and we are unorthodox.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The entrance of Rackspace's headquarters, above, converted from a defunct mall in San Antonio. A two-story slide, left, takes employees to the food court area. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER WHITNEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); RETAIL SALES (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (72%); PROPERTY LEASES (68%); DISTANCE LEARNING (67%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); RELIGION (62%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (80%); PIERCING PAGODA INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (80%); NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (56%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1285 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Marathon Officials Determining How to Proceed

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and MARY PILON; Juliet Macur contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As officials evaluated widespread storm damage, organizers for the New York City Marathon began work Tuesday to determine how Sunday's race might be affected by flooding and power outages.
''N.Y.R.R. continues to move ahead with its planning and preparation,'' Mary Wittenberg, the chief executive of New York Road Runners, the group that organizes the marathon, said in a statement. ''We will keep all options open with regard to making any accommodations and adjustments necessary to race day and race weekend events.''
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg -- a marathon booster because it generates hundreds of millions dollars in economic activity -- said Tuesday night that the race would go on as scheduled, but that additional details would be provided Wednesday.
Putting on a five-borough race with 47,000 runners, 8,000 volunteers, 1,000 staff and 2 million spectators just days after a devastating storm will be challenging as the police and fire departments, electric utilities and transportation agencies attempt to get the city back on its feet. 
Race officials were weighing which race-related events to reschedule or eliminate, and waiting to see how many runners would seek to defer their entries.
''There will be a marathon,'' said Norman Goluskin, a board member at New York Road Runners. ''I don't know how many thousands of people will run it, but I will say with confidence that 47,000 people will not be the number.''
Runners and fans, though, have been arguing whether holding the marathon is an act of triumph or tastelessness in light of the storm, a debate that evokes the days after the terror attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, when Major League Baseball considered when to restart the season.
''They need to cancel and focus on getting their city back together,'' Crystal Sara Martin wrote on the New York City Marathon's event page. ''It doesn't seem right to continue to have this marathon when their city and their own people are affected.''
Some runners questioned whether the food used for the race should be diverted to the hundreds of thousands of people who lost power. Others, including a few who would have come from overseas, said they had already deferred their spot in this year's race and were hoping to recoup the cost of their plane tickets and hotel rooms.
For now, the course remains a question mark. Many of the city's bridges and tunnels only reopened Tuesday afternoon and some roads are still impassable, so race officials had not determined whether any part of the 26.2-mile course was flooded. Typically, race officials drive the course several times in the days before the race to ensure that nothing is blocking the roadways and their equipment is in place.
The marathon's course does not pass through Lower Manhattan, which lost power Monday night and had significant flooding. But about half of the nearly 50,000 runners take the Staten Island Ferry, which leaves from the Battery, to get to the starting line early Sunday morning. The ferry may resume service, but subways leading to the Battery may not be operating.
And although the starting line is high up on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, the first leg of the course in Brooklyn curls up Fourth Avenue, not far from areas that were flooded Monday night. From there, runners head north through Queens, hugging the East River and crossing over the Queensboro 59th Street Bridge.
The course winds up Manhattan's Upper East Side, through the Bronx and down into Central Park, which will remain closed until debris and fallen trees are cleared. Critically, many fans, runners and volunteers rely on New York City subways to get to the race. Limited bus service was expected to return Tuesday night, but there is no timetable for the resumption of subway and railroad service.
Race officials said they were in contact with city agencies. At least for Road Runners, electricity is less an issue because it uses its own generators to power equipment at the start and finish lines.
The storm, though, forced race officials to work out of a hotel a few blocks from their office on West 56th Street. A construction crane that collapsed Monday is hanging perilously about 80 stories above West 57th Street and the police ordered buildings nearby to be evacuated.
Runners staying at the Parker Meridien Hotel, also on West 56th Street, also had to leave Monday. About 80 percent of the hotel's 726 rooms are filled with runners and their families during marathon week, said Steven Pipes, the president of the Jack Parker Corp., which owns the hotel. He said the hotel may reopen Wednesday, but runners may arrive late because metropolitan-area airports were closed.
More than 5,700 flights were canceled Tuesday, bringing the total number of cancellations caused by the storm to 15,500, according to FlightStats.com. Kennedy International Airport was expected to reopen Wednesday, but travel experts said it could take several days, or even into next week, for passengers to be rebooked.
Wittenberg said in a conference call Monday that an elite runner from Italy rerouted his flight to Miami and, weather permitting, to Hartford and then on to New York. Kenyan runners, who typically arrive on the Tuesday before the race, faced delays as well.
There are nearly 20,000 runners from overseas, and thousands of other runners who come from elsewhere in the United States. Before the storm, Wittenberg said, runners would have had until Wednesday to withdraw their entry. That deadline will be extended to Saturday, she said Monday before the storm hit. Runners will be guaranteed a spot in next year's marathon, but they will lose their entry fee from this year and have to pay a new entry fee next year.
Runners have been swapping travel tips online, like which airports to use and which hotels had power. On Monday night in Madrid, Luis Alonso, a 32-year-old lawyer hoping to run his third marathon, watched images of the storm on television and wondered if his flight to New York on Wednesday would be canceled.
Alonso searched for alternate routes to New York via other European airports in the event his flight from Madrid was canceled. ''You plan and train for months,'' he said by phone Tuesday. ''So of course you want to run. But we cannot complain. We see people on TV with their homes damaged.''
Road Runners is planning to use the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on the Far West Side of Manhattan starting Thursday to host an exposition where marathon entrants can pick up their bibs. The Javits Convention Center had some flooding, and building systems were being tested Tuesday.
''We are working closely with the New York Road Runner's Club on their plans for runner registration for this weekend's marathon,'' a news release from the center said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Central Park, the home for the finish of the New York City Marathon, will remain closed until debris and fallen trees have been cleared. On Monday, top left, the park was closed because of the approaching storm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CARLO ALLEGRI/REUTERS) (B11)
Thousands of runners depend on the Staten Island Ferry to get them to the starting line on the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOUIS LANZANO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 The course takes marathoners across the 59th Street Bridge. On Monday, a police officer closed an area near the bridge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNNING (91%); MARATHONS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); TERRORISM (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); TRAVEL TICKETS (67%); BASEBALL (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1286 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: As Sales Fall, Allergan Seeks a Buyer For Lap-Band

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Allergan said Tuesday that it was looking to divest itself of its Lap-Band, the once-popular weight-loss device that has experienced several years of falling sales, loss of market share and controversies about its safety and effectiveness.
The falling sales ''do not fit the profile of a high-growth company like Allergan,'' David E. I. Pyott, the company's chief executive, told analysts Tuesday morning on a call announcing the company's third-quarter financial results. 
In an interview, Mr. Pyott said Allergan had already hired an investment banking firm, which he would not name, and was sending letters to other medical device companies and private equity firms seeking a buyer for its obesity business, which also includes a balloonlike device that is not approved in the United States but is used in some other countries.
The Lap-Band, a silicone ring that is wrapped around the stomach and can be inserted in an outpatient procedure, once appeared to have a bright future as a less drastic, if less effective, alternative to gastric bypass, which involves rerouting the digestive tract.
But Allergan's obesity business sales have fallen from a peak of $296 million in 2008 to an expected $160 million this year. In the third quarter, the sales fell by 25 percent to $37.4 million from a year earlier.
The obesity business, while still profitable, represents less than 3 percent of total product sales for Allergan, which is known most for its Botox treatment for wrinkles, migraine headaches and other conditions.
Although one-third of American adults are obese, the number of weight loss surgeries in the United States -- about 160,000 a year -- has stopped growing, largely because of the economy, Mr. Pyott said. Many patients pay out of pocket for weight loss surgery, and even when the procedure is covered by insurance, there can be a co-payment of thousands of dollars.
Mr. Pyott said Allergan had made progress in the last year in lowering barriers to insurance coverage, but it was not sufficient to reverse the decline in sales of the Lap-Band.
But gastric banding has also lost market share among weight loss surgeries, falling to about one-third from 44 percent a year ago, Mr. Pyott said. Lap-Band has most of the market among bands, although Johnson & Johnson also sells such a product.
Gaining in popularity has been sleeve gastrectomy, which involves cutting out part of the stomach. It is considered midway between banding and bypass in terms of both effectiveness and the degree of invasiveness of the surgery.
Dr. Marc Bessler, director of the center for metabolic and weight loss surgery at Columbia University, said that Lap-Band had lost some luster among bariatric surgeons because studies suggested it was not effective in the long run for one-third to two-thirds of patients.
''You had data coming out that 10-year outcomes are not what we were expecting,'' Dr. Bessler said.
One study in Europe, for instance, published in The Archives of Surgery last year, reported that over 12 years, 60 percent of patients needed another operation, often to remove the band, because of complications or lack of weight loss. Allergan has said that techniques have improved since the patients in that study received their bands.
In 2011, Allergan succeeded in getting the Food and Drug Administration to approve use of the Lap-Band for patients with lower weight than had been previously required. But that did not bolster sales, in part because of difficulty getting insurance to pay.
The company dropped efforts to get the Lap-Band approved for use in teenagers after controversy arose about the product's safety.
There have been news reports about problems, including deaths, from the band.
Allergan said its overall product sales for the third quarter rose 6.1 percent from a year earlier to $1.39 billion. Earnings per share, after adjustments, rose to $1.06 from 92 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBESITY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); MARKET SHARE (90%); BARIATRICS (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (69%)

COMPANY: ALLERGAN INC (92%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (62%)

TICKER: AGN (NYSE) (92%); JNJ (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (62%)

PERSON: DAVID E I PYOTT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1287 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: At the Polls, Choose Your Capitalism

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
Voters due at the polls next week are feeling enormous anxiety about the economy. We mistrust government more than ever. Walloped by joblessness, disheartened by a decade of no income gains for the middle class, many of us have come to doubt our national self-image as a society that offers a shot at prosperity to all.
Faced with sharply contrasting approaches to our troubles, voters must grapple with two critical questions: What is the nature of our problem, and how did we get here? Above all, we must confront the way our choices, as a society, have shaped our predicament.
The sense of economic vulnerability weighing over the middle class has been building for decades, beginning well before the financial crisis and recession that scarred the last four years. We explain it to ourselves as a product of forces beyond our control: technology, which automated many formerly good jobs, or globalization, which put American workers in direct competition with cheaper labor in poor countries around the world. These relentless dynamics have sent unheard-of profits toward the prosperous few while threatening the jobs and eroding the wages of the rest. 
This understanding, while broadly accurate, ignores the role of our choices in managing the powerful global dynamics. Over the last three decades, every country in the world has been buffeted by globalization and technology advancing at a breakneck speed. But we have charted a unique course through the turbulent global waters, building a more cutthroat form of capitalism than most other industrial nations. We are more skeptical of government and willing to accept market outcomes, including high inequality and deep poverty. More than citizens of other countries, we tend to believe that success, like failure, is deserved.
Our form of capitalism has led us to where we are today. The United States may be good at generating wealth. It is arguably one of the most innovative and entrepreneurial economies in the world, producing technologies that have been essential to powering global growth. But the American way has not been effective at transforming affluence into broad-based well-being.
It may look as if our social and economic woes are a product of rampant globalization. To a large degree, however, they are a consequence of how we have chosen to address the opportunities and challenges of our high-tech, globalized world. Our cutthroat approach to capitalism has exacted high social costs.
The United States is probably less globalized than most other rich countries. Our total trade -- the sum of our imports and exports -- peaked at about 31 percent of our total economic production in 2008, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. By contrast, in Canada it amounted to 69 percent of the economy that year. In 2008, imports had only about 17 percent of the United States market, the smallest share among the industrialized nations in the O.E.C.D. In Germany that share was 44 percent.
In some ways we have reaped great rewards from our interconnected world. On average, income per person has grown 71 percent over the last 30 years, after adjusting for inflation. This puts us in 16th place among the list of 29 advanced countries tracked by the International Monetary Fund over the period. There are only a handful of places -- Singapore, Norway, Luxembourg and Hong Kong -- that enjoy a higher average income per person than the United States.
Yet for all the riches we have amassed, by the O.E.C.D.'s calculation, the income of Americans of working age in the middle of the distribution has grown less since the mid-1980s than in virtually every other developed nation. Perhaps unsurprisingly, we suffer from some of the worse social ills known to the industrialized world.
It is not just that income inequality is the most acute of any industrialized country. More American children die before reaching age 19 than in any other rich country in the O.E.C.D. More live in poverty. Many more are obese. When they reach their teenage years, American girls are much more likely to become pregnant and have babies than teenagers anywhere else in the industrial world.
We understand the importance of early childhood development. Yet our public spending on early childhood is the most meager among advanced nations. We value education. Yet our rate of enrolling 3- to 5-year-olds in preschool programs is among the lowest among advanced nations. Our 15-year-olds place 26th out of 38 countries on international tests of mathematical literacy, according to the O.E.C.D. The first nation to understand the value of widespread college education, the United States has dropped from the top to the middle of the pack of our economically advanced peers in terms of college graduation rates.
The American way has produced a high-tech health care system that offers sophisticated cures for those who can afford them, yet is astronomically expensive and poor at combating many run-of-the-mill ailments, and leaves millions uninsured.
Our safety net -- to protect the most vulnerable from globalization's ravages -- is threadbare. Where would you rather lose your job to cheap competition from China? In the United States you would lose health care, too -- unless you had the money to buy private insurance. If you were the breadwinner in a family of four earning the average wage, benefits would replace only 52 percent of it, even including any extra welfare payments you were entitled to, the O.E.C.D. found. And they would drop to 37 percent of your last wage after two years tops. In Britain, by contrast, you would still receive over 70 percent of your wage for 60 months after you lost your job. And your health care needs would be addressed by the public, universal National Health Service.
A particularly telling statistic speaks of how we deal with social dysfunction: there are 743 Americans in jail for every 100,000. That's more than in any other country in the world, according to the International Center for Prison Studies. The next country down the list is Rwanda, with 595.
Social ills like obesity and child mortality have, of course, multiple and complex causes. But the battery of dismal statistics suggests, at the very least, a troubling pattern. Yet though we seem to suffer more than our fair share of social ills, by the O.E.C.D.'s calculation our public spending to address them is smaller as a share of the economy than in any other country in the developed world.
Daron Acemoglu of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, James Robinson of Harvard and Thierry Verdier of the Paris School of Economics have proposed an economic taxonomy that divides the world into two types: cuddly countries like those in Scandinavia, where robust governments manage big social welfare systems, and cutthroat capitalists like the United States, willing to tolerate more inequity to encourage effort and entrepreneurship. Life might be better in cuddlier spots. But harsh as life in cutthroat nations may be, the world needs us to grow.
Americans work longer hours than workers in any other highly developed country, the authors note, perhaps because handing over a smaller slice of our income in taxes makes us willing to do so. Most important, they argue, the United States produces the greatest share of the world's technological breakthroughs and innovations, the main fuel of the world's economic growth.
In trying to reconcile the entrepreneurial spirit that the American brand of capitalism provides with its social costs, American voters must choose between Mitt Romney, the businessman who offers to move the economy forward by making government smaller and more efficient, and President Obama, who offers the government as an agent to assist the less prosperous, to put a thumb on the scale on the side of the have-nots.
The taxonomy developed by Mr. Acemoglu, Mr. Robinson and Mr. Verdier may strike voters as too crude a rendering of societies' complexities. Their proposition that a cuddly America would lead to less innovation and growth around the world has come in for some harsh criticism. But they offer voters a fundamental insight: when it comes to dealing with the challenges brought about by overwhelming global forces, there is a choice.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Americans who lose their jobs fare less well than workers in some other developed countries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1288 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: After Storm, Businesses Try To Keep Moving

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Reporting was contributed by Reed Abelson, Brian X. Chen and Katie Thomas in New York, Clifford Krauss in Houston and Bill Vlasic in Detroit.

 BODY:
For John Selldorff, the best news of the day was that his employees were safe and the power was back on at his company's factory in Fairfield, N.J. But all around the plant, electricity and phone service were still out -- and the manager responsible for that part of the business couldn't get out of his driveway because of a fallen tree.
In fits and starts, businesses across a broad swath of the East Coast struggled to recover on Tuesday from Hurricane Sandy, even as executives conceded that it would be days, at least, before things returned to normal.
Manufacturers like Mr. Selldorff's company, Legrand, a maker of electrical equipment, were among the hardest hit, with normal production not expected to resume in Fairfield until early next week. 
In New York City, banks and other financial services firms predicted that they would be mostly back on their feet when financial markets reopened Wednesday and customers began to venture out to local branches.
JPMorgan Chase's headquarters on Park Avenue and its principal trading floors a few blocks north on Madison Avenue are set to reopen Wednesday, as are at least 100 hub bank branches in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut that were stocked with extra cash before the storm.
''I think power in New York City will be a challenge,'' said Frank J. Bisignano, co-chief operating officer of JPMorgan Chase. ''We're not talking about weeks, but we are talking about more than a day.''
For many companies, as for individuals, the big question mark was when power providers and other utilities would be functioning reliably again.
More than five million households in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut were without power Tuesday afternoon, as utilities worked to repair downed lines.
Like the power companies, Verizon Communications, the largest wireline phone provider in New York, was hit hard.
On Monday night, the company posted a photo of the first floor of its office at 140 West Street in Lower Manhattan, which had been flooded with three feet of water. Bill Kula, a spokesman, said the storm surge from the hurricane flooded Verizon's central offices in Lower Manhattan, Queens and Long Island, causing power failures.
In some cases, even its backup power systems failed, leading to the loss of voice, Internet and television services in those areas.
Mr. Kula said the company would have to work with the power companies to pump water out from underground and dry off equipment. He added that many Verizon employees were working from home or from other offices, and that many workers from elsewhere had been rushed to New York to help with the restoration efforts.
''It couldn't have happened in a more challenging location, in the largest city where we provide wireline services, but it's not unprecedented for us to have to undergo herculean efforts to restore service,'' Mr. Kula said.
He added that a priority for Verizon was the financial district, where it is the primary wireline provider, affecting many businesses. ''We have crews working around the clock to do everything we can to ensure the financial district is fully up and running,'' he said.
At JPMorgan Chase, about 25,000 employees worked remotely on Monday, but that figure dropped to 15,000 to 20,000 on Tuesday as lights went out across the region.
On a typical day, about 2,000 to 3,000 employees work through the bank's remote computer system.
Some retailers, like Ace Hardware, rushed to reopen stores and stock them with everything from extra batteries to mops and cleaning supplies, said John Venhuizen, the company's president and chief operating officer. Of Ace's 500 stores in the region directly affected by the storm, about 450 managed to open on Tuesday.
All told, the lost output from and overall effects of the storm could shave as much as 0.6 percentage points off annualized fourth-quarter economic growth, according to an analysis by IHS Global Insight.
Some sectors, like fuel providers, seemed to have escaped the worst of Hurricane Sandy's wrath. As technicians returned to some idled refineries, their early reports suggested that regional gasoline and fuel supplies would not be seriously affected by the storm.
The Philadelphia Energy Solutions refinery in Philadelphia, the largest in the Northeast with a production capacity of 335,000 barrels a day, appeared to have suffered no serious damage and was expected to restart quickly. Several other regional refineries have shut down at least some operations, and it may take several days to return to full production. But with vehicle traffic down drastically because of the storm, no gasoline shortages are expected, and gasoline futures prices have generally been stable.
However, the Phillips 66 refinery in Linden, N.J., is closed, along with three regional storage terminals, and power failures may delay a return to normal operations. The company said that the refinery, which has a production capacity of 238,000 barrels a day, remained without power and that there was some flooding around the plant.
Nearby, a smaller refinery operated by Hess in Port Reading, N.J., also lost power Monday night and was not operating on Tuesday. Energy experts said it would probably take at least two days for power to return to the two New Jersey refineries.
Several ports used for delivery of a million barrels a day of imported fuels have also been shut down, along with the northern leg of the Colonial Pipeline, which brings petroleum products from the Gulf Coast in the event of power failures.
The nation's automakers are expecting the storm to hurt sales across the affected areas of the East Coast, where many car dealerships shut down as early as Monday, and as far west as Ohio and Michigan.
Auto sales for October will be reported on Thursday. With vehicle sales up 14 percent in the United States so far this year, the industry has been a notable bright spot in the economy. But car companies are expecting many consumers to avoid their showrooms as long as the severe weather continues.
''It's looking like October will end with a whimper,'' said Jay Cooney, a spokesman for Ford Motor Company in Dearborn, Mich.
Because of the advance notice of the storm conditions, Ford dealers were able to move much of their on-site inventory to other places before the hurricane hit, Mr. Cooney said. The company also asked its suppliers to stock up on certain parts in case of weather-related shortages.
Many health insurers said there had been little or no disruption to their businesses, because employees were able to work remotely and the companies had put in place measures at their offices to minimize any potential effects.
Aetna, a large health insurance company, closed its Hartford headquarters on Monday but reopened the offices, which have their own generator, on Tuesday. Company executives had been preparing for the hurricane since late last week, said a spokeswoman, Cynthia Michener.
Even on Monday, Aetna employees were able to work by logging into the company's network remotely, Ms. Michener said. Of the company's 35,000 employees, 22,600 connected remotely. Those employees were able to process claims, analyze insurance risk and answer customers' questions.
At the headquarters of Hubbell, a maker of power components, in Shelton, Conn., a skeleton crew relied on a backup electrical system for essential operations, said Timothy H. Powers, the company's chief executive. Most managers worked from home, as did customer-support staff in Connecticut.
''You can't work unless you have power,'' he said. ''I'm hoping we're back up by Thursday.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Selldorff, center, is chief executive of Legrand. The company lost power at its manufacturing facility in Fairfield, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER CAPOZZIELLO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Bill Fuchs, a vice president at Legrand, a maker of electrical equipment, prepared a warehouse for reopening on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); POWER FAILURES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); HURRICANES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); HURRICANE SANDY (75%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); BANK BRANCHES (73%); ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE & EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1289 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Flooded Tunnels May Keep City's Subway Network Closed for Several Days

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

 BODY:
It spans 468 stations and over 600 miles of track, pulsing through four of New York City's five boroughs as the great uniter of the area. Everyone pays the same fare. Everyone has a preferred line. Everyone curses its fussy weekend service.
And almost everyone uses the subway. Until it goes dark. 
On Tuesday, as officials discovered the breadth of tunnel flooding from an enormous hurricane, New Yorkers were warned that the bulk of the muscular subway network could be lost for ''a good four or five days,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said.
As the remnants of Hurricane Sandy left the city on Tuesday, transit officials surveyed the damage to the system, which they shut down on Sunday night as a precaution. What they found was an unprecedented assault: flooded tunnels, battered stations and switches and signals likely damaged.
''The New York City subway system is 108 years old,'' Joseph J. Lhota, the chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, said. ''It has never faced a disaster as devastating as what we experienced last night.''
Seven subway tunnels beneath the East River, many of which provide critical connections between Lower Manhattan and Brooklyn, were flooded, Mr. Lhota said. The South Ferry station at the southern tip of Manhattan was filled ''track to ceiling'' with water, the authority said.
Limited bus service returned on Tuesday afternoon, and a full schedule was expected for Wednesday. Mr. Lhota suggested that if subway service could be partially restored in less-affected areas of the system -- the Manhattan and Brooklyn legs of the No. 4 train, for instance, but not the tunnel that connects them -- buses may be rerouted to complement functioning stretches.
''You don't have to run a line from end to end,'' Mr. Lhota said in an interview. ''You can do intermediate terminals or stop-off points.''
But the transportation agency offered no estimate as to when even part of the subway system might return.
The Metro-North Railroad and Long Island Rail Road commuter train lines were also devastated, suffering power losses as fallen trees and other debris littered the system. In Ossining, N.Y., a 40-foot boat had been tossed along the tracks used by the Hudson line of Metro-North.
In New Jersey, Gov. Chris Christie said he expected PATH trains to be unavailable for at least seven to 10 days. New Jersey Transit has also suspended operations.
The authority's two tunnels, the Brooklyn-Battery and Queens-Midtown, remained closed through Tuesday afternoon, though most of the city's other major crossings, including the Robert F. Kennedy, Verrazano-Narrows, Manhattan and Brooklyn Bridges, were reopened throughout the day. The Lincoln Tunnel was never closed.
The subway shutdown, though, provided an extension of last year's grim reminder during Tropical Storm Irene: the system, which runs 24 hours a day, can indeed go dark. Last summer, the transportation authority undertook a systemwide shutdown of the subways as the tropical storm approached.
But while that shutdown began at noon on a Saturday, with service restoration beginning by early Monday, Hurricane Sandy's sweep across the region has ensured that at least one business week, if not more, will be upended.
Last year, riders could take comfort in knowing that the shutdown was voluntary. This storm prompted a willful suspension of service, but then ensured that the system would remain down well after it passed.
On Monday, the authority said that pumping water out of flooded tunnels could take anywhere from 14 hours to more than 4 days. After that task is complete, the authority will still need to address any damage to its electronic signaling system or switches, which were susceptible to saltwater corrosion.
Mr. Lhota said he was not aware of any permanent damage to the system.
A team of specialists from the Army Corps of Engineers was summoned to clear the system. It is the first time that the team -- based in Rock Island, Ill., and made up of two mechanical engineers and two hydrologists -- has been asked to help clear water outside of New Orleans since it was created after Hurricane Katrina.
At the Clark Street station in Brooklyn Heights, several transit workers said they had tried to walk through the No. 2 train tunnel to Wall Street in the early afternoon but had to turn back because it was still full of water.
Residents in the neighborhood walked into the station periodically and asked police officers when the trains would be running.
''They're saying a week,'' one of the officers told a man in sweat pants and a Windbreaker.
''A week -- oh, oh, oh!'' said the man, Lee Breuer, one of the founders of the Mabou Mines theater company. He said he did not need to get anywhere immediately; his appointment at an unemployment office on Monday was canceled, and he was told to come back when the trains were running again.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers pumped water out of the South Ferry subway station at the tip of Manhattan, which was filled with water up to the ceiling after Hurricane Sandy struck. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Pumping at the Broad St. station.
Water being pumped from the Whitehall ferry terminal.
An escalator and flooded entrance at the South Ferry subway station. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE WARD) MAP: Work Begins on Flooded Subways: Seven subway tunnels under the East River were still flooded on Tuesday, most of them in Lower Manhattan, where a 14-foot storm surge topped subway entrances and grates. (Source: M.T.A.
New York State Energy Research and Development Authority
 Journal of Performance of Constructed Facilities) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); TRAINS (78%); FERRIES (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (76%); HURRICANE SANDY (76%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1290 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: UBS to Cut 10,000 Jobs In a Worldwide Overhaul

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
6:26 p.m. | Updated LONDON - UBS, the Swiss bank, announced plans on Tuesday to eliminate up to 10,000 jobs and cut costs in a major overhaul that will squeeze its earnings in the short term.
Like many European banks, UBS is dealing with the effects of the sovereign debt crisis and the sluggish European economy. With profits eroding, the Swiss firm wants to reduce its riskier operations and focus on its profitable wealth management group. 
A year ago, the bank's chief executive, Sergio P. Ermotti, first announced efforts to pare back the firm's risky trading activity and focus on the wealth management business. Mr. Ermotti said on Tuesday that stricter regulatory capital requirements and continued uncertainty in the global economy had pushed the bank, which is based in Zurich, to hasten its restructuring plans.
"The regulatory environment has become tougher and more demanding," Mr. Ermotti said in an interview. "Parts of the investment banking universe are just no longer commercially sustainable."
The pullback in the firm's investment banking operations follows a number of scandals that have engulfed the division. That includes a $2.3 billion trading loss connected to the activities of a former trader, Kweku M. Adoboli, and potential fines related to the manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor. The bank is working with American and international authorities on the investigations.
Job cuts have already begun. On Tuesday, UBS began to tell some employees that their positions were being eliminated. Over the next two years, UBS plans to reduce its work force by as much as 16 percent, bringing the total employee count worldwide to 54,000. Last year, the bank announced a separate batch of 3,500 job cuts.
The layoffs will be most pronounced in London, where UBS has a sizable investment banking operation. Mr. Ermotti said up to 45 percent of the layoffs, or 4,500 people, would be in London. A further 2,500 job losses would come from its Swiss operations, while the remaining layoffs would be borne by UBS's division in the United States.
The job cuts are part of a broader plan to cut costs at UBS. The latest moves will help reduce expenses by 3.4 billion Swiss francs, or $3.6 billion, by 2015, UBS said in a statement. Added to the bank's previous efforts, UBS expected annual savings of 5.4 billion francs over that period.
Analysts welcomed the restructuring plan, saying UBS's competitors might now be forced to also reduce their investment banking units in response to stricter capital requirements that have reduced the profitability of risky financing dealings.
"We would expect this to kick off further industry restructuring," said Kinner Lakhani, a banking analyst at Citigroup in London.
Shares in UBS rose 5.9 percent in Zurich on Tuesday.
The wholesale changes to the way the bank operates will limit UBS's investment banking activities to those connected to its wealth management and corporate clients.
UBS said it planned to eliminate most of its fixed-income businesses because they had become unprofitable. The smaller investment banking unit would focus on advisory services, research, equities, foreign exchange and precious metals.
Andrea Orcel, who joined UBS last year from Bank of America, will lead the smaller investment banking division, while Carsten Kengeter, the current co-head of the unit, will step down from UBS's executive board to oversee the winding down of the bank's unprofitable investment banking businesses and financial positions.
"We didn't want to wait; the new regulation is not going to disappear," Mr. Ermotti said. "The steps we have taken have given us credibility in the market."
The overhaul will hit the firm's short-term profitability. In the latest quarter, UBS posted a loss of 2.2 billion Swiss francs for the three months ending Sept. 30, citing restructuring costs and charges connected to its own debt. The bank recorded a net profit of 1 billion francs in the period a year earlier.
The firm said it expected a charge of 500 million francs related to layoffs and other costs in the fourth quarter, which would lead to a net loss for that period. In total, restructuring costs will reach 3.3 billion francs by 2015.
UBS said its common equity Tier 1 ratio, a measure of a firm's ability to weather financial shocks, stood at 9.3 percent under the so-called Basel III rules. The bank plans to raise that figure to 11.5 percent by next year.
The bank faces other headwinds. In the latest quarter, pretax profit for its wealth management unit fell 32 percent, to 600 million francs. Costs related to the planned restructuring led to a 2.9 billion franc loss in UBS's investment banking unit, compared with a loss of 650 million francs in the third quarter of 2011. Similarly, pretax profit in its retail and corporate unit fell 40 percent, to 409 million francs.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (71%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); INTERBANK LENDING (51%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); ZURICH (91%) SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1291 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg. 

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Race Narrows as Campaign Enters Its Final Week

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and MARJORIE CONNELLY

 BODY:
COLUMBUS, Ohio -- President Obama and Mitt Romney enter the closing week of the campaign in an exceedingly narrow race, according to the latest poll by The New York Times and CBS News, with more voters now viewing Mr. Romney as a stronger leader on the economy and Mr. Obama as a better guardian of the middle class.
The president is holding his coalition together with strong support from women and minority voters and is supported by 48 percent of likely voters nationwide, the poll found, while Mr. Romney holds a wide advantage among independents and men and is the choice of 47 percent. 
The race for the White House, which has been interrupted by the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy's deadly assault on the East Coast, is heading toward an uncertain conclusion. The president was set to stay off the campaign trail for a third straight day to tour storm damage on Wednesday with Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Republican. Mr. Romney was set to resume a full schedule in Florida.
In the final days, the most intense competition between Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney has narrowed to seven states, but the national poll illustrates why the Romney campaign is working to expand the battleground and seize upon the deep concern in the electorate about whether the president should win a second term.
The economy continues to be the overwhelming issue on the minds of voters, with about three-quarters selecting the economy as either their first or second most important concern. Another 23 percent named the budget deficit as one of their top two issues. Most voters consider Mr. Romney the better candidate to deal with both of those challenges.
The president has a slight edge on terrorism and foreign policy, but the poll found that Mr. Romney may have made some inroads with his strong critique of how Mr. Obama managed the Libya crisis after the killing of the American ambassador and three others in Benghazi. When asked specifically about the administration's handling of the attacks on the consulate in Libya, the poll found that only 38 percent of voters approved and 51 percent disapproved.
A week before the election, even as millions of Americans have already cast their ballots through early-voting programs in many states, voters are closely divided between the candidates, with men and women practically mirror images of each other. The poll found that Mr. Obama is supported by 52 percent of women and 44 percent of men, while Mr. Romney is preferred by 51 percent of men and 44 percent of women.
Throughout the campaign, most voters have given Mr. Obama the advantage over Mr. Romney when asked which candidate understands their needs and problems. And even more see Mr. Obama as the candidate who appreciates the issues faced by working women. Two-thirds of voters, both men and women, said Mr. Obama understands the problems of women in the work force, while 46 percent said the same about Mr. Romney.
But slightly more voters describe Mr. Romney as a strong leader than they do Mr. Obama.
As Mr. Romney seeks to emphasize the moderate elements of his record, the poll found that voters across the country see deep philosophical differences between the two candidates, with 67 percent saying that Mr. Romney would very closely or somewhat closely follow the policies of former President George W. Bush.
Since becoming the Republican presidential nominee, Mr. Romney has become more moderate, according to 33 percent of voters, while 18 percent said he has moved more to the right. Among those who say Mr. Romney's positions have become more moderate, 42 percent still say he is too conservative, 44 percent say his political values are about right and 11 percent say he is not conservative enough.
The poll was conducted in the days before Hurricane Sandy hit the East Coast. The telephone interviews were conducted Thursday through Sunday, although they were originally intended to continue through Tuesday evening. Though the survey was cut short by the approaching storm, all numbers in the sample were attempted at least once.
The nationwide survey was conducted by landlines and cellphones to reach 898 adults, of whom 798 said they were registered to vote. The likely voter model includes voting history, attention to the campaign and likelihood of voting. Party identification for likely voters has been adjusted to its average in the two most recent polls by The Times and CBS News. The margin of sampling error for 563 likely voters is plus or minus four percentage points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); WOMEN (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MEN (75%); TERRORISM (69%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); HURRICANE SANDY (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); APPROVALS (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1292 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: A Zombie Is a Slave Forever

BYLINE: By AMY WILENTZ. 
Amy Wilentz, the author of the forthcoming book ''Farewell, Fred Voodoo,'' teaches in the literary journalism program at University of California, Irvine.

 BODY:
Los Angeles
ZOMBIES will come to my door on Wednesday night -- in rags, eye-sockets blackened, pumping devices that make fake blood run down their faces -- asking for candies. There seem to be more and more zombies every Halloween, more zombies than princesses, fairies, ninjas or knights. In all probability, none of them knows what a zombie really is.
Most people think of them as the walking dead, a being without a soul or someone with no free will. This is true. But the zombie is not an alien enemy who's been CGI-ed by Hollywood. He is a New World phenomenon that arose from the mixture of old African religious beliefs and the pain of slavery, especially the notoriously merciless and coldblooded slavery of French-run, pre-independence Haiti. In Africa, a dying person's soul might be stolen and stoppered up in a ritual bottle for later use. But the full-blown zombie was a very logical offspring of New World slavery. 
For the slave under French rule in Haiti -- then Saint-Domingue -- in the 17th and 18th centuries, life was brutal: hunger, extreme overwork and cruel discipline were the rule. Slaves often could not consume enough calories to allow for normal rates of reproduction; what children they did have might easily starve. That was not of great concern to the plantation masters, who felt that children were a waste of resources, since they weren't able to work properly until they reached 10 or so. More manpower could always be imported from the Middle Passage.
The only escape from the sugar plantations was death, which was seen as a return to Africa, or lan guinée (literally Guinea, or West Africa). This is the phrase in Haitian Creole that even now means heaven. The plantation meant a life in servitude; lan guinée meant freedom. Death was feared but also wished for. Not surprisingly, suicide was a frequent recourse of the slaves, who were handy with poisons and powders. The plantation masters thought of suicide as the worst kind of thievery, since it deprived the master not only of a slave's service, but also of his or her person, which was, after all, the master's property. Suicide was the slave's only way to take control over his or her own body.
And yet, the fear of becoming a zombie might stop them from doing so. The zombie is a dead person who cannot get across to lan guinée. This final rest -- in green, leafy, heavenly Africa, with no sugarcane to cut and no master to appease or serve -- is unavailable to the zombie. To become a zombie was the slave's worst nightmare: to be dead and still a slave, an eternal field hand. It is thought that slave drivers on the plantations, who were usually slaves themselves and sometimes Voodoo priests, used this fear of zombification to keep recalcitrant slaves in order and to warn those who were despondent not to go too far.
In traditional Voodoo belief, in order to get back to lan guinée, one must be transported there by Baron Samedi, the lord of the cemetery and one of the darkest and most complicated of the religion's many complicated gods. Baron is customarily dressed in a business jacket, a top hat and dark glasses; he's foul-mouthed and comic in a low, vicious way. One of Baron's spiritual functions, his most important, is to dig a person's grave and welcome him to the other side. If for some reason a person has thwarted or offended Baron, the god will not allow that person, upon his death, to reach guinée. Then you're a zombie. Some other lucky mortal can control you, it is believed. You'll do the bidding of your master without question.
Haiti's notorious dictator François Duvalier, known as Papa Doc, who controlled Haiti with a viselike grip from 1957 until his death in 1971, well understood the Baron's role. He dressed like Baron, in a black fedora, business suit and heavy glasses or sunglasses. Like Baron at a ceremony, when Duvalier spoke publicly, it was often in a near whisper. His secret police, the Tontons Macoutes, behaved with the complete immorality and obedience of the undead, and were sometimes assumed to be zombies under the dictator's control. I once heard a Haitian radio announcer describe Klaus Barbie, a Nazi known as the Butcher of Lyon, as ''youn ansyen Tonton Makout Hitler,'' or one of Hitler's Tontons Macoutes: a zombie of the Reich.
The only way for a zombie to have his will and soul return is for him to eat salt -- a smart boss of a zombie keeps the creature's food tasteless. In the 1980s, with Duvalier's son ousted from power and the moment ripe for reform, the literacy primer put out by the liberation theologians' wing of the Roman Catholic Church in Haiti was called ''A Taste of Salt.''
There are many reasons the zombie, sprung from the colonial slave economy, is returning now to haunt us. Of course, the zombie is scary in a primordial way, but in a modern way, too. He's the living dead, but he's also the inanimate animated, the robot of industrial dystopias. He's great for fascism: one recent zombie movie (and there have been many) was called ''The Fourth Reich.'' The zombie is devoid of consciousness and therefore unable to critique the system that has entrapped him. He's labor without grievance. He works free and never goes on strike. You don't have to feed him much. He's a Foxconn worker in China; a maquiladora seamstress in Guatemala; a citizen of North Korea; he's the man, surely in the throes of psychosis and under the thrall of extreme poverty, who, years ago, during an interview, told me he believed he had once been a zombie himself.
So when kids come to your door this Halloween wearing costumes called Child Zombie Doctor or Shopko's Fun World Zombie, offer them a sprinkling of salt along with their candy corn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (90%); STARVATION (73%); HALLOWEEN (72%); RELIGION (69%); SUGAR FARMING (63%); FARM LABOR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) HAITI (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); AFRICA (90%); GUINEA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1293 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Fiat Keeps Italian Factories Open, Turning Focus to High-End Models

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Defying the worst European auto sales in 20 years and deepening losses in the region, the chief executive of Fiat said Tuesday that he would not close any of the carmaker's underused factories in Italy and vowed to repeat the turnaround he has already led at Chrysler.
Sergio Marchionne, who is chief executive of both companies, outlined a recovery plan that was fundamentally different than Fiat's rival, Ford, which last week said it would shutter three plants in Europe. Both Fiat and Ford reported Tuesday higher losses in Europe, though overall profit rose because of healthy sales in the United States and elsewhere. 
Instead of closing Italian factories, which have been producing fewer than half as many cars as they could, workers there will focus on producing Alfa Romeos, Jeeps and Maseratis, Mr. Marchionne said. Those premium Fiat brands have higher profit margins, but they must significantly increase their sales for the plan to succeed. Production of lower-priced Fiats will be shifted to countries where costs are lower.
''Building things is a lot more exciting than retrenching,'' Mr. Marchionne said during a conference call with analysts Tuesday. Referring to the revival of Chrysler, he said, ''We have to do it one more time.''
It has become increasingly clear that the decline in European auto sales, which have fallen 20 percent in the past five years, is more than just a temporary slump. Ford said Tuesday that it ''believes the changes in the European business environment to be structural, rather than cyclical, in nature.''
The crisis in the auto industry has emerged as another threat to European stability because of the number of jobs at risk. The car industry employs about two million people in Europe, plus millions more who depend indirectly on automakers.
Last week, Ford announced plans to close three factories in Europe and eliminate 5,700 jobs. Analysts have predicted that other European carmakers would be compelled to follow suit. But Mr. Marchionne said that it made more sense to keep Fiat plants open.
Closing factories ''would have relegated us to being a minor player in Europe because of the social delocations,'' he said. ''I've run the numbers both ways. This is the best economic choice we can make.''
Fiat reported Tuesday that its net profit globally more than doubled to &#x20ac;286 million, or $370 million, in the three months through September. Revenue rose 16 percent to &#x20ac;20.4 billion as the company sold more than a million vehicles.
But the company, based in Turin, said it would have lost &#x20ac;281 million in the quarter without profit from its Chrysler unit, which on Monday reported an 80 percent increase in earnings.
Mr. Marchionne's decision to keep open the Italian plants was a surprise. As recently as September, at the Paris Motor Show, he had been lamenting Europe's failure to do something about factories that have been operating at a fraction of their potential. The underused factories are ruinous for carmakers because companies must continue to pay fixed costs like worker salaries and maintenance.
The decision is good news for Italy, which is in recession and struggling to maintain its credibility with international bond investors. When car plants close, the damage quickly spreads to suppliers and the regional economy, costing tens of thousands of jobs and undercutting tax revenue.
Even as he expressed optimism that Fiat brands can win a share of high-end markets now dominated by BMW, Mercedes and Audi, Mr. Marchionne painted a grim picture of the European auto market.
Sales in Italy, the company's core market, will be the lowest since 1979, Fiat said. Although Fiat closed a factory in Sicily last year, the company's Italian plants are producing less than half as many cars as they could if they were running three shifts a day. Fiat will not break even in Europe until 2015 or 2016, Mr. Marchionne said.
In characteristically colorful terms, he acknowledged that it would be difficult for Fiat to break out of its dependence on less expensive, small cars. ''It is shark-infested waters and you're bound to lose some parts of your anatomy,'' Mr. Marchionne said.
At the same time, Mr. Marchionne said, Fiat and Chrysler plants outside Europe were operating at full capacity, opening a chance for Italian factories to produce for export. He outlined plans to introduce seven new Alfa Romeo and six new Maserati models by 2016 that would be made in Italy for sale outside Europe, including the United States. In addition, he said, a new Jeep model would be produced in Italy for export beginning in 2014.
Fiat's control of Chrysler allowed the company to return to the American market and means ''we are no longer a marginal player,'' Mr. Marchionne said.
''We now face the future together as a four million-plus vehicle producer,'' he said. ''The opportunities that are available to both of us now are opportunities that neither of us would be able to extract on our own.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); CLOSINGS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); FIAT SPA (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (89%) EUROPE (94%); ITALY (92%); GERMANY (89%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012



1294 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Investors Await Reopening of U.S. Markets

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
LONDON (Reuters) -- World shares rose modestly in subdued trading on Tuesday as investors and traders prepared for markets in the United States to reopen after a huge storm that wrought destruction across the Eastern United States. 
The monster storm, Hurricane Sandy, was responsible for at least 30 deaths, left millions without power, and closed much of New York's financial district for two days.
Major stock exchanges in the United States are scheduled to reopen for trading Wednesday and a financial industry trade group said the fixed income market would also be open for trading on Wednesday, the final day of the month, which is important for pricing investment portfolios.
Early activity could be volatile after the closing of the world's largest financial market.
''You have earnings, a heavy economic data calendar, the election cycle -- it's a catalyst-rich market sitting idle for a few days, and there could be an unusual reaction,'' said Art Hogan, managing director of Lazard Capital Markets in New York.
The FTSEurofirst 300 index of top European shares was up 0.75 percent at 1,101.75 points and, after gains earlier in Asia, the MSCI world equity index had risen 0.3 percent to 328.86 points.
Stock index futures in the United States, which continued trading in Europe, edged lower, but volumes were light.
''We're a bit lost without Wall Street, frankly,'' said Alexandre Tixier, a technical analyst at TradingSat in Paris.
Across European stock markets, attention was on corporate earnings, with results from well-known names like Germany's Deutsche Bank, the Swiss banking giant UBS and the oil company BP lifting prices. Shares of UBS increased more than 4 percent as it confirmed a plan to cut 10,000 jobs.
Britain's FTSE 100 index was up 0.75 percent, Germany's DAX index up 0.9 percent and Switzerland's SMI index up 0.5 percent.
In the currency markets, which remained open, the dollar lost ground against a resurgent yen after the Bank of Japan eased policy less aggressively than had been hoped for at its regular policy setting meeting.
The Bank of Japan increased its monetary stimulus for a second consecutive month, this time by 11 trillion yen ($138.2 billion), disappointing many who had positioned for a more aggressive increase.
''It was a very skeptical response to the B.O.J. policy meeting, made worse by the fact they have revised lower the growth and inflation outlook,'' said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabobank. ''That has seen the yen unwind a lot of the softer tone we saw going into this meeting.''
The dollar hit a one-week low of 79.25 yen and was down 0.3 percent against a basket of major currencies at 79.94 points.
The weaker dollar helped the European common currency climb 0.4 percent to $1.2958, while news that the Spanish economy had shrunk slightly less than expected in the third quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); US DOLLAR (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FUTURES (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); CALENDARS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); HURRICANE SANDY (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); INFLATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (82%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%); COOPERATIEVE CENTRALE RAIFFEISEN-BOERENLEENBANK BA (50%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (82%); UBS (NYSE) (82%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012



1295 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: When Floodwaters Rise, Web Sites May Fall

BYLINE: By QUENTIN HARDY and JENNA WORTHAM; Quentin Hardy reported from San Francisco and Jenna Wortham from New York. Brian X. Chen contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
Here is a lesson every Web site manager may be taking away from Hurricane Sandy: It is probably not a good idea to put the backup power generators where it floods.
As computer centers in Lower Manhattan and New Jersey shut down or went to emergency operations after power failures and water damage Monday night, companies scrambled to move the engines of modern communication to other parts of the country. Others rushed to find fuel for backup power generation. In some cases, things just stopped.
''Suddenly, nobody could get online,'' said Arianna Huffington, president and chief executive of The Huffington Post, which went offline about 7 p.m. Monday when the computer servers of Datagram, which distribute its work on the Internet, stopped working because of rising water in Lower Manhattan. 
About six hours later, Huffington Post was online, but it crashed again several hours later. It was running again at 8 a.m. Tuesday.
As more of life moves online, damage to critical Internet systems affect more of the economy, and disasters like Hurricane Sandy reveal vulnerabilities from the sometimes ad hoc organization of computer networks. In places like Manhattan, advanced technology comes up against aging infrastructure and space constraints, forcing servers and generators to use whatever space is available.
Power is the primary worry, since an abrupt network shutdown can destroy data, but problems can also stem from something as simple as not keeping a crisis plan updated.
''If you have an e-commerce system taking an order from the Web, it may touch 17 servers, all in different locations,'' said James Staten, an analyst with Forrester Research. One server might contain customer information, he said, while others work with logistics, product availability or billing. ''If you don't list them all as mission critical, you're in trouble when disaster occurs.''
Big nationwide providers of Internet service, like Google and Amazon Web Services, were for the most part unaffected by the storm. Their cavernous facilities, holding more than 100,000 computer servers each, were located out of the storm's path, and had extensive backup power generation. Amazon's facilities in Virginia, which had been affected in a storm last summer, had no problems.
The largest telecommunications company affected by the storm appeared to be Verizon, which lost a considerable amount of old-fashioned wired phone service to the flooding. Bill Kula, a Verizon spokesman, said the storm surge from the hurricane flooded its central offices in Lower Manhattan, Queens and Long Island, causing power failures. Cellphone service at both AT&T and Verizon Wireless appeared to be less affected.
In the days leading to the hurricane, the carriers staged fleets of emergency response vehicles -- trucks that act as temporary cell towers -- in strategic locations along the storm's edge. They also took safety measures, like installing backup batteries on cell sites and moving important equipment to less vulnerable areas. They advised customers to use text messaging instead of placing phone calls to use fewer network resources.
Large companies avoided problems by moving data and people out of town before the hurricane hit, using specialized nationwide service providers.
''They fan out across the U.S.,'' said Nick Magliato, chief operations officer of SunGuard. ''They move data from New York to Philadelphia, Philadelphia to Phoenix.'' His company also provides offices for workers across the country, with computers that replicate their office systems and phones that have their personal numbers.
Peer 1 Hosting, like many other service providers, updated customers via its blog Tuesday. Robert Miggins, senior vice president for business development, said the main options for customers were to shut down in an orderly way, preserving data, risk staying online, or consider moving data to Peer 1's computers in other parts of the country. ''We're telling them to back up everything,'' he said, ''sometimes they are dealing with us with nothing but a smartphone.''
Besides Huffington Post, Internet media sites including Gawker and BuzzFeed were taken out by the flooding at the Internet services company Datagram. The sites later recovered, sometimes with reduced service, by transferring work to other providers in different locations. Services remained intermittent, however.
Datagram executives could not be reached for comment. According to the company's Web site, flooding in the basement of its facilities at 33 Whitehall Street, in Lower Manhattan, damaged the building's electrical system. The site said Datagram's computers were not affected.
Many companies affected by the storm and its aftermath built out distributed virtual networks of people, as well. Ben Smith, the editor of BuzzFeed, said that engineers worked throughout the night to shift the site to Amazon Web Services. Mr. Smith said that one man, Eugene Ventimiglia of Emerson, N.J., continued working from home as a tree crashed through his house.
BuzzFeed also rerouted readers to blogs on the Tumblr publishing service, in order to maintain social distribution of its content while its own site was down. Despite the power failures, Mr. Smith said, BuzzFeed still received about two million unique visitors on Monday.
Providers of critical Internet services to business in the area will be set back until full power is restored. A large building on Eighth Avenue in Manhattan, owned by Google which houses several other service providers as well, was relying on a 90,000-gallon tank of diesel fuel to run emergency operations, according to one of the building's tenants.
''We're good for about 72 hours at a full load of customers,'' said Ron Sterbenz, vice president for marketing at Telx, which maintains data services for financial companies and communications providers from the facility. ''We don't know when the power will be back up.'' Google would not comment on its building's operations.
Another downtown building, at 75 Broad Street, had one generator in the basement, which was damaged by water. There is another generator, but it is on a higher floor.
''We're on a very limited amount of fuel,'' said Mr. Miggins of Peer 1, which maintains computers there. ''We've got a truck full of diesel pulled up to the building, and now we're trying to figure out how to get fuel up to the 19th floor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A downed tree provided a seat for Nate Martin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 The hurricane's storm surge flooded the central office of Verizon on West Street in Lower Manhattan on Monday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); HURRICANES (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); NETWORK SERVERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (70%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%)

COMPANY: VERIZON WIRELESS INC (84%); GOOGLE INC (83%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012



1296 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Politics; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Storm Pushes Aside Presidential Politics, Mostly

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and MICHAEL D. SHEAR; Michael Barbaro reported from Dayton, Ohio, and Michael D. Shear from Washington. Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
DAYTON, Ohio -- Perhaps nothing better encapsulated the tricky calculus of running for president in the midst of a natural disaster than the mixed messages flashing on a giant screen here Tuesday at an event for Mitt Romney.
At one moment, the screen featured a public service announcement instructing crowd members to text a $10 donation to the American Red Cross on their cellphones. The next, it displayed a glossy campaign video describing Mr. Romney as ''charismatic'' and ''authentic.''
In a corner of the high school gymnasium where the event was held, people lined up to deposit boxes of bottled water and bags of brown rice for victims of the storm. In another, a woman proudly held up a T-shirt that read ''Obama, you're fired.'' 
The storm that ravaged much of the East Coast has pushed the presidential campaign into a delicate and ambiguous phase. Suddenly, it was a sideshow, with a caveat: Americans were still watching and assessing an improvised leadership test for both candidates as they navigated the politics of a deadly storm.
Mr. Romney, a challenger without the trappings and authority of office to respond to the crisis, made a single stop in the Dayton area. His campaign called it a ''storm-relief event,'' even though it was at the same gym where he was previously set to hold a traditional campaign rally.
At the last minute, campaign signs were taken down, the 2,000 attendees were asked to bring canned goods, and a tieless Mr. Romney delivered sober words standing atop a black and silver trunk.
''A lot of people hurting this morning,'' said Mr. Romney, who grabbed bags of food from some members of the crowd and thanked them one by one. ''They were hurting last night. And the storm goes on.''
Yet the existence of the event, at a large site, meant that Mr. Romney would still appear on television after his aides said they would cancel ''all events currently scheduled'' for Tuesday, out of sensitivity to the storm's victims.
As Mr. Romney accepted the bags of supplies, reporters repeatedly asked him about his comment last year that seemed to question the role of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in disaster relief. In a debate during the Republican primaries, he vaguely suggested that emergency management should be pushed to states, though he did not directly address the future of FEMA, whose work has made it popular in swing states like Florida. Mr. Romney did not respond to the shouted questions.
The presidential contest steamed ahead at full force on at least one important front. The Romney campaign reserved at least $12 million in advertising time for the final week of the election. Though the campaign was still making purchases on Tuesday afternoon, it had so far set aside large sums for nine states, including $1.3 million in Wisconsin, $2.7 million in Ohio, $2.7 million in Florida, $1.5 million in Iowa and $1.2 million in Nevada.
A ''super PAC'' backing Mr. Romney's campaign began broadcasting a new ad in eight states that features a woman expressing disappointment about President Obama's first term. Another released two ads across many of the battleground states criticizing Mr. Obama's handling of the economy.
After months of unanswered Republican super PAC ads, the Obama campaign bolstered its Michigan campaign with at least $64,000 in ads, the first time it has advertised there since the Republican primaries. It also continued to broadcast ads criticizing Mr. Romney's economic proposals and promoting the president's plans for a second term.
Representatives for the candidates still held rallies. Former President Bill Clinton pressed ahead with two planned stops in Colorado on Tuesday. Mr. Romney's wife, Ann, attended a ''victory rally'' in Iowa after making a stop at a storm-related event in Wisconsin.
With the election approaching and polls showing a close contest, each camp confronted the same quandary: whether moving ahead in campaigning would earn it the votes they needed to win or whether it would be seen as crass, unpresidential behavior as cities coped with deaths and extensive flooding.
Mr. Romney's storm-relief event here, with the singer Randy Owen as a guest performer, tried to find a compassionate way forward. Hundreds of people arrived with food to donate.
Devante Williams, 22, said he had driven three hours from Indiana after hearing that he could contribute to the relief effort. He wanted to make a $100 cash donation. ''It's just the right thing to do,'' he said.
Mr. Romney, surveying the piles of donated goods, recalled a time in high school when classmates discovered a football field littered with trash.
''And the person who was responsible for organizing the effort said, just line up along the yard lines. You go between the goal line and the 10-yard line. And the next person, between 10 and 20, and then just walk through and do your lane. And if everybody cleans their line, why, we'll be able to get the job done. And so today, we are cleaning one lane, if you will,'' he said.
But he did not talk politics.
Another person at the event, Paulette Flaum, said that she had long been skeptical of Mr. Romney, but that his decision to turn a rally into a storm-relief event was evidence that he was ''a generous man.''
''He wants to help people,'' Ms. Flaum said. She peered around the room. ''This is a nonpartisan event. But most of us are Republicans.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People lined up to see former President Bill Clinton at an event in Colorado on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN RED CROSS (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (89%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1297 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Urges Bosnia's Leaders to Work Together

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

 BODY:
SARAJEVO, Bosnia -- Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton urged Bosnian leaders on Tuesday to work together and warned that their country would fall behind the rest of Europe if they did not make overdue reforms.
''We worry that if you do not make progress you will be left behind in the rest of the region,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''You've got other neighbors who are making progress.''
Sarajevo was Mrs. Clinton's first stop on a tour through the Balkan region with Catherine Ashton, the European Union's high representative for foreign policy. The unusual joint trip was calculated to reinforce the point that there are steps Bosnia, Serbia and Kosovo need to take to resolve lingering disputes and advance their political and economic integration with Europe. 
Sarajevo is a changed city since the bitter internecine conflict in Bosnia was brought to an end 17 years ago when Bill Clinton was president. But mistrust among Bosnian's ethnically divided leadership runs deep and has stymied reforms that the United States and European nations have stated are necessary if Bosnia is to apply for NATO membership or to seek admission in the European Union -- a message that was delivered to Bosnia's Serbian, Croatian and Muslim presidents Tuesday.
''Is there a political crisis?'' Mrs. Clinton asked. ''There is, and that political crisis can only be resolved by leadership.''
A major barrier to Bosnia's entry to NATO is the failure of its three presidents to confirm a decision on which military bases and installations will belong to the central government. Although the issue appeared to have been settled in March, observers say Bosnia's Serbian leadership has been dragging its feet. Mrs. Clinton said that if the issue were settled, she would ''personally go to the NATO ministerial in Brussels in December'' to support Bosnia's application to join NATO, a process that can take years.
An obstacle for Bosnia's admission to the European Union, which would provide important benefits for the country's economy, is a provision of its Constitution that stipulates that posts in the three-member presidency and Parliament be equally divided among Muslims, Croats and Serbs. The European Court of Human Rights has ruled that the measure violates the rights of smaller minorities since it precludes them from serving in senior government positions.
Ms. Ashton said that if Bosnia wanted to pursue membership in the European Union, its ''first priority'' must be to act on that ruling.
Riven by ethnic disputes, Bosnia has lagged behind other Balkan states in joining Europe's political and security institutions. Croatia, for example, is a NATO member and is on course to join the European Union next year. Serbia and Macedonia are also candidates for membership in the European Union, a point Mrs. Clinton emphasized Tuesday.
''We leave here and go to Belgrade,'' she said. ''Belgrade is on the path for Serbia to become a member of the E.U. We will then go to Pristina. Kosovo is on the path for a lot of positive changes.''
In a news conference after the meeting with Bosnia's leaders, Ms. Ashton also noted that one of her aides had been in contact with Iranians on ''how to move forward'' the negotiations on Iran's nuclear program. The talks are between Iran and the five members of the United Nations Security Council plus Germany. Ms. Ashton said she would be in contact with the chief Iranian negotiator, Saeed Jalili, shortly.
Addressing Iran directly at the news conference, Mrs. Clinton said: ''The window remains open to resolve the international community's concerns about your nuclear program diplomatically and to relieve your isolation, but that window cannot remain open indefinitely. Therefore, we hope that there can be serious, good-faith negotiations commenced soon.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION COURTS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); RELIGION (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); EUROPE (97%); SERBIA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CROATIA (93%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOSOVO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1298 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Obama Should Stay Away From Cambodia

BYLINE: By SAM RAINSY

 BODY:
As the U.S. presidential election approaches, Barack Obama is in danger of allowing his good offices to be used as part of an attempt to deny Cambodians the opportunity for self-determination that Americans take for granted.
President Obama is due to visit Cambodia next month as the country holds the presidency of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in 2012. Ahead of Cambodian elections in July 2013, Prime Minister Hun Sen, who has been in power since 1985, has been engaging in a familiar pattern of cracking down on the voices of opposition. He knows that it's an easier and safer way to win elections than allowing democratic debate.
The summit meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations that Mr. Obama plans to attend should be moved to another country in order to deny Hun Sen the legitimacy he is seeking to garner from the event. 
Those with a record of opposition to Hun Sen are in dread of the period right after Mr. Obama's scheduled visit.
The owner of the Cambodia's Beehive radio station, Mam Sonando, was sentenced to 20 years in prison on Oct. 1 on politically motivated charges that he had been part of a secessionist movement. The radio station had allowed airtime for such inconvenient issues as maternal mortality, human trafficking, labor rights, environmental protection and the need for an independent judiciary.
Hun Sen had publicly called for Mam Sonando's arrest on June 26. He was held on July 15, two days after Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton left the country after attending an Asean regional forum.
The United Nations Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Cambodia, Surya P. Subedi, in July recommended reform [pdf] of the country's electoral system. Among his 18 recommendations was the key demand for the reform of the National Election Committee to make it a neutral body. This has been rejected by the Cambodian government.
Hun Sen is counting on donors continuing to turn a blind eye to the fact that the election committee is dominated by members of the ruling Cambodian People's Party, and is even situated inside the Interior Ministry.
The minimum requirement for proper elections next year is that the National Election Committee be reformed. Letting it operate in its current form would allow voter-registration fraud on a massive scale. This means that election results are a foregone conclusion.
Meanwhile, as leader of the opposition, I remain abroad in forced exile to avoid a 12-year jail sentence on politically motivated charges. The Cambodian National Rescue Party -- the united democratic opposition that I lead -- won't validate such a bogus exercise next year by taking part.
There must be meaningful reform in advance or Cambodia will go the way of Belarus, reduced to international isolation after an opposition boycott led to a one-horse race in which the dictator Alexander Lukashenko was the only candidate.
This year, the Cambodian political landscape saw what could prove to be its biggest change since the extinction of the Khmer Rouge in 1998. The Human Rights Party, led by Kem Sokha, agreed to merge with the Sam Rainsy Party to create a united democratic opposition. We believe that together we have enough support to win a free and fair election. We aim to carry out a New Deal for Cambodia. Prohibition of land theft will be at the core of our program. Our government will cancel all land, forest and mining concessions granted by Hun Sen that were associated with the eviction of legitimate landowners. Local communities will be given rights to decide how land, forest and fishing zones are managed.
We will seek to rid the civil service of the corruption that cripples it and turn it into a meritocracy associated with a sense of public service. We will introduce a health service that gives Cambodians access to basic care.
Our government will make it illegal for any organization, including political parties, to get new members through coercion. We will reform the National Election Committee to make it independent and introduce an age limit for prime ministers to avert the specter of Hun Sen, or anyone else, ruling the country for life.
Hun Sen has been power for even longer than Mr. Lukashenko. He is the only Cold War communist leader to survive in power today. During the Cold War, states in Eastern Europe and Asia fell to communism like dominoes. But a domino can fall in either direction. The free world must seize the opportunity presented by Cambodia's elections. Forcing Hun Sen to play by democratic rules would not only empower the Cambodian people to determine their own future, it would also give an impetus to democracy and human rights in countries such as Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and North Korea.
Hun Sen responded to the recommendations from Mr. Subedi, a Nepalese professor of law, by telling him to go away and worry about his own country. He used similar language in 2006 and 2007 in response to criticism from the previous U.N. envoy to Cambodia, the Kenyan constitutional lawyer Yash Ghai. If everyone did that then the United Nations wouldn't exist and neither would international law.
If Hun Sen won't engage with the international community and the Asean summit isn't moved, President Obama, the leader of the world's standard-bearer of democracy, should take Hun Sen at his word and stay away.
Sam Rainsy is an exiled member of the Cambodian Parliament.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); SENTENCING (71%); LITIGATION (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (51%); BOYCOTTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMBODIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); ASIA (93%); BELARUS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1299 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Bank of Japan Announces Fresh Economic Stimulus

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- The Japanese central bank announced fresh measures on Tuesday to ease monetary policy, stepping up its bid to fend off recession in the world's third-largest economy after the United States and China.
The Bank of Japan, under pressure from the government to act more decisively to halt the economy's slide, said in a statement that it would add ¥11 trillion, or $138.5 billion, to an asset-buying program that has become its main monetary policy tool.
The bank will also set up a new loan program to supply banks with cheap long-term funds, a bid to pump more money into the Japanese economy to encourage growth. As expected, the bank decided to keep its benchmark interest rate at a range of 0 percent to 0.1 percent. 
The Bank of Japan's governor, Masaaki Shirakawa, said that the easing measures would stay in place until Japan achieved an inflation level of at least 1 percent.
The measures come as Japan confronts economic data that suggest its fragile recovery is threatened. The economy grew at a healthy clip earlier this year, helped by the huge reconstruction effort that followed the 2011 earthquake and tsunami. But a slowdown in exports and industrial output, brought about by the global slowdown and a continued territorial spat with China, a major trading partner, is threatening to hobble that growth.
The dispute, which intensified in September, has led to boycotts of Japanese brands among Chinese consumers, forcing Japanese exporters to scale back their sales forecasts in an important market.
Meanwhile, Japanese industrial output fell by 4.1 percent in September from August, and by 8.1 percent from a year earlier, data released Tuesday showed. Exports have also shown signs of a slowdown, and price data show the economy remains mired in deflation, a damaging drop in prices, wages and profit that hampers economic activity.
Reflecting those risks, the central bank cut its own economic and price forecasts, saying it was unlikely to meet a goal of reaching 1 percent inflation by the fiscal year ending March 2014. That probably will not happen until the following year, the bank said.
''Japan's economy is expected to level off more or less for the time being. Thereafter, however, as domestic demand remains resilient on the whole and overseas economies gradually emerge from the deceleration phase, the economy is expected to return to a moderate recovery path,'' the bank said in its semiannual economic outlook, also released Tuesday.
And in a rare joint statement, the government and the Bank of Japan said they shared the goal of beating deflation. The central bank will ''regularly'' report its outlook on prices to the cabinet, while the government will introduce its own measures to fight deflation, the statement said.
Mr. Shirakawa said that for now, he saw increased risks for a marked slowdown in the global economy. The biggest change since the bank's policy meeting in September, he said, was that ''overseas economies seemed to be slowing down further.'' That was ''a big starting point'' of the bank's policy discussions, he said.
It is still unclear how far the bank will go to reverse Japan's decade-long deflationary malaise, made worse by the country's shrinking population. Central bankers have said that monetary policy is not enough to ease the economic problems and that the government needs to do more to facilitate growth.
Even as the central bank has flooded the economy with money, bank lending has hardly risen because companies do not feel confident enough in the weak economy to fund big investments.
The government has also thrown money at the economy, approving ¥422.6 billion in emergency spending just last week. But its ability to spend its way to economic growth is limited by a public debt burden already twice the size of its economy. Gridlock in Parliament is also blocking a bill that would allow the government to fund an almost ¥40 trillion deficit, threatening public services.
Markets were unimpressed with the central bank's moves Tuesday, with the Nikkei 225-share index in Tokyo closing down nearly 1 percent shortly after the bank's announcement, and the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong off 0.4 percent. The yen strengthened, hitting a one-week high of 79.25 to the dollar, bringing more pain to Japanese exporters.
''Monetary fireworks displays are not in Bank of Japan governor Shirakawa's nature,'' Nicholas Smith, Japan strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said in a note to clients after the bank's decision. The bank will continue to face pressure from the government to step up its actions, and Mr. Shirakawa may be replaced when his current term ends in April, Mr. Smith said. ''And if there is one thing that all major political parties can agree on, it is that the monetary future must be expansionary,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DEFLATION (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); BOYCOTTS (67%); TSUNAMIS (66%); INTEREST RATES (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (90%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (97%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1300 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Europe Ready to Send Military Trainers as Mali War Looms

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Preparations are under way for an international effort to oust radical Islamists who control northern Mali. The European Union is ready to send military trainers to the West African state but Africans would do the fighting. 

 BODY:
LONDON - The European Union is ready to send troops to prepare an offensive against renegade Islamist forces occupying northern Mali, a fiefdom that could become a springboard for terrorist attacks on Europe.
"It's 1,200 kilometers from France and from Europe. Therefore our security is at stake," Jean-Yves Le Drian, the French defense minister, said on Tuesday.
However, the Union's contribution to an African-led international effort to oust the Qaeda-linked militants is likely to be limited to a few hundred military trainers. "I haven't heard from member states a willingness to put people in the field," an E.U. official told Reuters.
The crisis has been building since mutinous soldiers staged a coup in Bamako, the Malian capital, in March. 
Separatist Tuareg tribesmen grabbed the opportunity to seize the north, but they were promptly pushed aside by radical Islamists. The radicals have imposed a brutal fundamentalist regime on two-thirds of the country, funded with the proceeds of drug, cigarette and people smuggling.
Six French hostages are being held there by the local affiliate of Al Qaeda. The same group, Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, has been linked to the death of J. Christopher Stevens, the U.S. ambassador to Libya killed in Benghazi last month.
France, the former colonial power in Mali, took the initiative in pushing for a U.N. Security Council resolution that this month cleared the way for military intervention if the crisis of the breakaway north cannot be resolved peacefully.
The French and their European partners fear that Mali could become a new terrorist haven like Somalia, but this time much closer to the Continent.
Alain Praud, a reader of France's Le Monde, suggested the Islamist takeover in the north had more to do with crime than religion.
"The desert bandits, who have long trafficked in slaves, are now doing the same with drugs, weapons and illegal immigrants," he wrote in an online comment. "The banner of Islam is serving as a cover for hypocrites."
António Guterres, U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees and a former prime minister of Portugal, wrote in a Global Opinion article last month:
If unchecked, the Mali crisis threatens to create an arc of instability extending west into Mauritania and east through Niger, Chad and Sudan to the Horn of Africa and the Gulf of Aden, characterized by extended spaces where state authority is weak and pockets of territorial control are exercised by transnational criminals.
The perceived threat has proved sufficient to involve the United States, which this week sought the support of Algeria in the international effort to oust the Islamists. 
My colleague Michael R. Gordon wrote from Algiers that Hillary Rodham Clinton, the visiting U.S. Secretary of State, agreed to pursue a dialog with the North African state on the most effective approaches to take.
It is already apparent that, if it comes to a shooting war, Malian and other African troops would be doing the fighting, with Europe picking up the bill and providing training.
Germany is among the countries that have said it would send military trainers, despite some skepticism among the German public.
"The mission threatens to become a failure, particularly because time is running out," according to Germany's Der Spiegel.
"If the Malian army and the West African intervention force hope to invade the north before the hot summer, the Europeans will have to begin their training activities in the winter," according to magazine. "And if they delay the mission, the Islamists will have plenty of time to strengthen their positions."

        
Protecting What Mali Stands For
        
European Economic Woes Spur Separatists in Pockets of Prosperity
        
Europe Told to Count Its Blessings
        
Iraq, Afghanistan ... Iran? We've Been Here Before.
        
Papering Over Cracks in Europe's Union

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); RELIGION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); COUPS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); REFUGEES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); SMUGGLING (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (67%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) Africa; Al Qaeda; european union; islamists; Mali; Middle East and North Africa Unrest (2010- ); Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb; Featured; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (54%) Al Qaeda; Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (51%) MALI (96%); FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); MAURITANIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); ALGERIA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); NIGER (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SUDAN (79%); SOMALIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CHAD (79%) Mali

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012



1301 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: On Sandy and Humanity's 'Blah, Blah, Blah Bang' Disaster Plans

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: Getting priorities straight in limiting risks from inevitable hazards on a crowding, complicated planet. 

 BODY:
For millions of people in the New York metropolitan region and adjacent areas flooded, scorched, and pummeled by the extraordinary hybrid storm once known as Sandy, arguments about how much of the storm's ferocity was human-created are secondary.
Arguments about how to discuss such extreme events in the context of climate policy -- while important -- are down the list, as well, even with a presidential election days away. After all, that debate is perennial. (Go here for a valuable 2009 discussion of this question in relation to climate change and African megadroughts; plug in hurricanes where you see drought and the pattern will feel familiar.)
While scientists and campaigners debate what mix of factors shaped this epic storm, what's indisputable is that much of the disaster that unfolded as it came ashore was the result of human actions and decisions -- ranging from where we've chosen to build or subsidize development to how seriously our governments take the need to build with the worst in mind (as always, of course, with budgets in mind).
This post is truncated by the troubles I'm having getting online in a blacked-out part of the Hudson Valley, but I want at least to start a discussion of the prime question of the moment: What are the political, economic, societal and personal traits that caused one of the world's wealthiest and most sophisticated cities to end up (despite longstanding warnings) with flooded tunnels, subways and neighborhoods and widespread flood-triggered loss of electricity?
As I wrote in 2008, on such issues, "Are We Stuck With 'Blah, Blah, Blah, Bang'?"
I hope the answer is no, but I don't see us shifting meaningfully from business as usual on disaster mitigation without some serious analysis, education and prioritizing.
Looking at extreme storms and climate change, for instance, I made these relevant observations deep in a post earlier this week but, but they deserve center stage: 
1. The unerring buildup of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is bound to come with regrets. [See my posts on the climate "basics" for more.]
2. Many parts of the planet, from sub-Saharan Africa to the northeastern United States [and Southwest], are subject to extreme storms, superdroughts or other climate-related disruptions with or without a push from greenhouse gases. Greenhouse heating will worsen some extremes and is almost assuredly contributing to some (but not all) now.
3. Limiting harm from inevitable hard knocks that come with such disruptions is job one on a crowding, busy planet.
4. Working to shift from energy norms that come with large emissions of carbon dioxide is an imperative in this century (along with bringing energy by any smart means tothe billions of people without reasonable sources now). But even a crash effort to blunt the greenhouse-gas buildup wouldn't avert the need for step 3.
One imperative, going forward, was nicely captured by David Roberts of Grist in a Twitter riff earlier this week that, despite our differences on how to address the buildup of greenhouse gases, resonates powerfully with my views on how to foster progress on a finite, crowding and urbanizing planet: 
The best we can do for ourselves and those alive in the next 50 years is enhance the resilience of our communities & infrastructure.
- David Roberts (@drgrist) October 29, 2012
I agree heartily, as longtime readers here know. That's why my Tumblr page has this as the "about" box:
 "Let us draw a lesson from nature, which always works by short ways. When the fruit is ripe, it falls. When the fruit is despatched, the leaf falls. The circuit of the waters is mere falling. The walking of man and all animals is a falling forward." - Ralph Waldo Emerson, 1841
The human trick in this century is to foster practices and policies that result in us FALLING FORWARD without falling down.
Looking ahead, do you have your own sense of priorities and policies that can cut the chances we'll see future rounds of scenes like those still unfolding in the Northeast?
Here's a final view of Manhattan as the storm swept in, and out:
Before the week is out, and depending on access to the gifts of electricity and the Internet, I'll revisit the rich online discussion of communication challenges related to climate extremes in a warming world -- which involves folks ranging from David Roberts at Grist to David Ropeik at Big Think.

        
On 'Frankenstorms,' Climate Science and 'Reverse Tribalism'
        
What's the Best Climate Question to Debate?
        
Two Views of a Storm in Climate Context
        
The #Frankenstorm in Climate Context
        
One Reason for Debate Climate Silence

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER PLANNING (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); EMISSIONS (86%); HURRICANE SANDY (78%); WEATHER (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (65%) Cuomo, Andrew M; Disasters and Emergencies; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Hurricane Sandy (2012); Infrastructure (Public Works); New York City; Power Outages and Blackouts; Presidential Election of 2012; Roberts, David; Ropeik, David; Twitter; United States; Weather; cities; Climate Change; communication; disasters; environmental policy; national; planning

ORGANIZATION: Twitter

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (73%) Cuomo, Andrew M; Roberts, David; Ropeik, David

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012



1302 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The 6th Floor)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: The Worst Thing About an Apocalypse? Surviving It

BYLINE: HUGO LINDGREN


HIGHLIGHT: The final issue of Eureka, the magazine of The Times of London, offers tips about how to survive the end of the world. 

 BODY:
This month, The Times of London published the final issue of a monthly science magazine called Eureka, yet another casualty of the poor economy and the growing pressure on print publications. The magazine's editors had an inspired idea of how to say goodbye - an issue devoted to The End of Life as We Know It.
Freed from the concern of possibly alienating readers or advertisers with such negative fare, they delved into their deepest fears - which, though residents of the northeastern United States might object, did not include hurricanes. Rather, editors focused on volcanos, earthquakes, war and viral pandemics. All in all, a pretty bracing brew of nasty ways for us all to go.
The most harrowing information, however, was contained in the Survival Guide section, especially the suggestions for what to eat and drink when all the 7-Elevens in the world have been reduced to rubble. Earthworms, it turns out, are an impressive source of iron, and for protein, your best bet may be a cockroach. You may want to also consider consuming trees, which will be most digestible and tasty if you can get to the soft middle layer of wood called the phloem, which should be cut into thin strips and fried with a bit of fat. Where might that come from? Ants. "Higher in calories than many margarines," the editors usefully note.
Boot leather is another edible of last resort.
As for what to drink, borrow this old aboriginal trick: "Tie a cloth between your ankles and walk across dew-covered grass. Then wring it out over a container."
Finally, there's one piece of advice that is also an irrefutable argument for the necessity of print journalism: "If trapped in a building, crouch under stacks of old newspapers or magazines - paper doesn't compress under the weight of rubble."
Just try that with a Web site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (78%) Times of London

ORGANIZATION: Times of London

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012



1303 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Europe Isn't Working

BYLINE: JULIET LAPIDOS


HIGHLIGHT: Every week brings new evidence of what Keynesians have long known: Austerity is counterproductive in times of recession. 

 BODY:
It seems like every day brings new evidence of what Keynesians have long known: Austerity is counterproductive in times of recession. Just last week, a Times editorial reviewed data from the European Union showing that "countries that have most ruthlessly cut their budgets--Greece, especially--have seen their overall debt loads increase as a share of the economy."
On Wednesday the National Institute for Economic and Social Research, a nonpartisan economic think tank based in London, released a study making the same point. As the Wall Street Journal summarized, the study found that "the ratio of debt to gross domestic product will be around 5 percentage points higher in both the U.K. and the euro zone because of the spending cuts and tax rises pursued from 2011 to 2013." The study argued: "not only would growth have been higher if such policies had not been pursued, but debt-to-GDP ratios would have been lower."
So not only do budget cuts do nothing to spur the overall economy; they make it worse. And not only do budget cuts do nothing to lower debt-to-GDP ratios; they increase them.

It is astonishing that the Democrats have not capitalized on these facts to defend the much-maligned stimulus and President Obama's policies more generally. The U.S. economy is hardly booming, but we're in better shape than Europe.
Even more astonishing, the Democrats have allowed the Republicans to own the Europe-as-counter-example storyline. Mitt Romney is fond of saying that "Europe isn't working in Europe. It's not going to work here," meaning that socialism doesn't work there and won't work here. But what's not working in Europe is precisely the sort of policy favored by Mr. Romney and the G.O.P.

        
Opinion Report: Greece
        
Opinion Report: Stand Your Ground
        
File Under: Paul Krugman Told You So
        
What Are the Germans Thinking?
        
The Foreign Policy Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); TAX INCREASES (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) austerity; European debt crisis; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Recession and Depression

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (56%); BARACK OBAMA (52%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GREECE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012



1304 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 8995 words

HEADLINE: Storm Aftermath: Live Updates

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Live updates from the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. 

 BODY:
Limited subway and commuter rail service returned to New York and its suburbs on Thursday, and power was gradually being restored across the states hit by the storm. Much of the eastern edge of the United States remained crippled, with millions of homes still dark and the death toll climbing.
In New York City, traffic was snarled at checkpoints at most bridges and tunnels. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg had announced on Wednesday that these crossings would be limited to cars carrying at least three people. But he waved the restriction on Thursday morning for taxis and livery cars. 
 Live Updates 
Tracking the storm that has disrupted power and transportation for millions of people in more than a half-dozen states, leaving behind the daunting task of cleaning up.
 4:30 P.M. | Natural Gas Cut to New Jersey Barrier Islands as Safety Move 
First the power, now the gas: New Jersey Natural Gas is shutting off main lines that serve 28,000 customers in the state's storm-ravaged barrier islands. 
"We're talking about a major quality-of-life inconvenience for our customers," said Micah Rasmussen, a spokesman for the utility. That means no heat or hot water for days, if not longer, Mr. Rasmussen said. He would not estimate a timeframe.
Utility crews in the last 48 hours have plugged 1,300 leaks, many of which started fires, but the effort proved futile, Mr. Rasmussen said, and the risk of fire and explosion continued. He said crews had not been able to gain access to many of the leaks until today, and in many cases had to travel by boat. 
The shutoffs affect all customers on Long Beach Island and on the island north of it up to Johnson Street in Bay Head. People may smell a harmless gas odor while the system is ventilated.
"The devastation was much worse than anything that could be imagined, and it was much worse than the assessment we could conduct by air," Mr. Rasmussen said. "It literally was, just, utter devastation."
- Andrew Phelps 
 4:24 P.M. | Con Ed Giving Out Dry and Wet Ice 
Consolidated Edison is distributing dry and wet ice to people who lost power in the storm to keep their food cold. The ice is available while supplies last in these locations: 
*Brooklyn (dry ice): Walgreen's, 532 Neptune Avenue near West Sixth Street.
*Bronx (dry ice): 1200 Waters Place at the entrance to the Hutchinson Metro Center.
*Manhattan (wet ice): Union Square Park, Union Square East and East 17th Street.
*Queens (dry ice): 121-10 Rockaway Boulevard.
*Staten Island (dry ice): The entrance to Great Kills Park on Buffalo Street.
*Westchester County (dry ice): Yonkers Raceway, 810 Yonkers Avenue, Yonkers.
- Andy Newman 
 4:17 P.M. | Springsteen Praises Christie for Handling of Storm 
The Web site Backstreets.com, devoted to coverage of all things Bruce Springsteen, reports that he praised one of his fans, Gov. Chris Christie, for his handling of the storm at a show on Wednesday night.
According to the fanzine, before playing the song "My City of Ruins," Mr. Springsteen told a crowd in Rochester: 
We wish you a happy Halloween, but we are a rock 'n' roll band from the Jersey Shore, and tonight we carry a lot of sadness in our hearts. This was originally a song about my adopted hometown struggling to get on its feet - it struggled for 25 years, a quarter-century, while we watched for Asbury come back. And we are very proud to say over the past decade, it has risen up and flourished in a way I wasn't ever sure I'd see in my lifetime. And it will do so again!
We're a band that you can't separate from the Jersey Shore... still basically a glorified bar band - at your service! - so we're gonna do this tonight from our hometown to your hometown. We'll send this out to all the people working down there: the police officers, the firemen, and also to the governor, who has done such a hard job this past week.
Video of the remarks, posted on YouTube by a member of the audience named Samantha Steagall, shows that the mention of the governor got a big cheer from the crowd.
Video of Bruce Springsteen addressing the damage to the Jersey Shore during a concert in Rochester, N.Y. on Wednesday night.
Until this week, Mr. Springsteen, who has campaigned for President Obama's re-election, has been careful to keep his distance from the New Jersey governor, a Republican who gave the keynote address at the Republican National Convention, endorsing of Mr. Obama's rival, Mitt Romney.
As our colleagues at Arts Beat reported earlier on Thursday, Mr. Springsteen, along with another Jersey rocker, and high-profile Obama supporter, Jon Bon Jovi, will take part in a telethon on Friday night to raise money for disaster relief. The benefit concert, to be broadcast on NBC channels, will also feature Long Island's Billy Joel, and other stars, including Sting and Christina Aguilera.
As Politico explains, Mr. Christie has tried hard to associate himself with Mr. Springsteen:
New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's well-documented love of Bruce Springsteen has led him to sing "Thunder Road" on national television, beg The Boss to play at his inauguration, beg him again to play a concert at the opening of a new casino in Atlantic City and to cooperate with a magazine profile focused on his obsessive Springsteen fandom.
Throughout it all, Springsteen, a liberal Barack Obama supporter, has made clear the feelings weren't mutual. He turned down both concert requests. He wrote a letter to a New Jersey newspaper knocking cuts that Christie made to programs for the poor and spoke out for gay marriage legislation that Christie opposed.
Jeffrey Goldberg, who attended a Springsteen concert with Mr. Christie this year, looked closely at what it all means in an article for The Atlantic in which he wrote: "Christie, in the presence of Springsteen-whom he would marry if he were gay and if gay people were allowed to marry in the state he governs-loses himself. He is, as is well known, a very large man-twice the width of Mitt Romney-but he is a very large man who dances at Springsteen concerts in front of many thousands of people without giving a damn what they think."
The attempt to appropriate Mr. Springsteen's popularity, despite the fact that many of his songs are anthems to the struggle against the hardship of contemporary American life, has been going on for decades.
As Peter Hartlaub explained in 2004:
Bruce Springsteen has a long history of writing complicated songs that are mistaken by elected officials for feel-good political anthems.
In 1980, the New Jersey State Assembly attempted to pass a resolution declaring "Born to Run" as the "unofficial rock theme of our state's youth." Clearly, no one in the Assembly had listened to the lyrics, which on a literal reading appear to be about fleeing your New Jersey home at all costs.
In 1984, the conservative columnist George Will wrote a column misinterpreting "Born in the U.S.A." as a simple affirmation of patriotism, missing the darkness apparent in the song's first lines: "Born down in a dead man's town/ The first kick I took was when I hit the ground. You end up like a dog that's been beat too much/ Till you spend half your life just covering up."
Soon after, Ronald Reagan said on the campaign trail that America's future "rests in a message of hope in songs of a man so many young Americans admire: New Jersey's Bruce Springsteen."
That led Mr. Springsteen to observe, days later, "The president was mentioning my name the other day, and I kind of got to wondering what his favorite album might have been." He then played a song from his dark album, "Nebraska," about an unemployed man driven by despair to commit a murder. 
As The Philadelphia Inquirer noted, in an odd coincidence, one of Mr. Springsteen's early songs, "4th of July, Asbury Park (Sandy)," an ode to life on the Jersey Shore, "shares a name with the hurricane that has devastated his home state."
- Robert Mackey 
 3:52 P.M. | Damaged Buildings in Historic Zones Face Extra Complication 
Building owners in the wake of the storm face many challenges, but those who own and manage landmark structures and properties that are in designated historic districts and need exterior alterations must have their plans reviewed by the Landmarks Preservation Commission - which, being in the Municipal Building, is closed this week for lack of power.
Acknowledging that, Jenny Fernández, the director of intergovernmental and community relations at the commission, said: "Property owners and managers who need to make emergency repairs to their property should stabilize the condition first and follow up with L.P.C., when possible, for a permit. If the repair involves the removal or repair of an architectural feature, if possible, please photograph it, and store it safely."
The commission's Web site noted further that staff members would be available by e-mail on Thursday to answer questions. General inquiries may be sent to info@lpc.nyc.gov.
- David W. Dunlap 
 3:52 PM | Interstate 95 in Connecticut Reopens After Gas Leak Cleanup 
Interstate 95 has reopened in Connecticut after closing when a gas line ruptured on Thursday morning, according to the State Department of Transportation. The highway had been shut for several hours in Milford, between New Haven and Bridgeport, while firefighters extinguished a small fire along the roadway. No one was injured, although the closing snarled traffic in southern Connecticut for much of the day.
- Thomas Kaplan 
 3:54 P.M. | Uptown, a Sudden Restaurant Boom 
While restaurants in downtown Manhattan remain dark and flooded, eating establishments uptown, especially on the Upper East Side, are bustling with diners. The Times's Florence Fabricant has the story on Diner's Journal.
 3:28 P.M. | Bloomberg, Moved by Storm, Endorses Obama 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, whose endorsement had been courted avidly by both President Obama and Mitt Romney, threw his support behind the president on Thursday, giving credit to Hurricane Sandy for making up his mind. Mr. Bloomberg wrote that Mr. Obama was the best candidate to tackle the global climate change that the mayor believes contributed to the violent storm.
"Our climate is changing," he wrote. "And while the increase in extreme weather we have experienced in New York City and around the world may or may not be the result of it, the risk that it may be - given the devastation it is wreaking - should be enough to compel all elected leaders to take immediate action." Read more.
- The New York Times 
 3:17 P.M. | In Well, a Blogger's Take on Hurricanes and Cancer 
For healthy people, the arrival of a disaster like Hurricane Sandy throws them into crisis-management mode, forcing day-to-day concerns to the side for the moment. 
But for cancer patients, and for others who suffer from chronic or life-threatening illnesses, natural disasters don't put health on the back burner, writes Suleika Jaouad, a 23-year-old with leukemia who lives in an evacuation zone and writes the Life, Interrupted column on the Well blog.
"While you can gather a first-aid kit, canned goods and extra batteries, you can't stockpile chemotherapy drugs, antibiotics or emergency medical advice in the same way," she writes. "For people in need of medical assistance, natural disasters can be a double-dip crisis: a public safety emergency on top of the unique challenges of one's own disease." In her neighborhood, "Sewage mixed with the storm water flowing in the streets, and I was worried about the risk of infection."
Read more.
- The New York Times 
 2:36 P.M. | Desperation at the Gas Pump 
Line of people outside a #Queens#gas station keeps on growing. Police directing traffic flow #Sandy#aftermathtwitter.com/alexamaea/stat
- Alexa Mae Asperin (@alexamaea) November 1, 2012
As drivers and pedestrians waited in lines 100 cars deep to fill their tanks and many stations ran out, there were whiffs of desperation mixed with gasoline fumes. 
@MetroGypsy reported on Twitter that someone pulled a knife at a station in Greenpoint, Brooklyn:
Someone just pulled a knife at a Greenpoint #gas station as line stretches with hours long wait #gettingrealFAST- MetroGypsy (@MetroGypsy) November 1, 2012
Several drivers have noted a police presence at several stations throughout the city, helping direct traffic and keeping tension levels in check.
...another packed gas station. Police have to monitor them! #gas#sandytwitter.com/spidertears/st
- James M. (@spidertears) November 1, 2012
At least one crowd-sourced map has surfaced, where drivers in the New Jersey area are sharing precious information about which stations are full and which have run dry. And Twitter users are sending out locations with gas using the hashtag #NYCgas. Some stations are limiting customers to five gallons. 
The price of a gallon, it seems, is at a premium. A picture of a sign posted on Instagram advertised prices for the various grades of gas from regular on up: "arm, leg, soul and kids." 
#tweegram I NEED #GAStwitter.com/iminthebakery/
- camille (@iminthebakery) November 1, 2012
Instead of waiting in line, others have been driving from station to station, only to be turned away by lines of yellow "Caution!" tape.
CAUTION! No #Gas! I passed by 10 pumps, all without gas. #crises! This is unbelievable. Infrastructure #fail#SandyAidyfrog.com/mgisfmxj
- Libor Von Schönau (@LiborVonSchonau) November 1, 2012
As The New York Times's Corey Kilgannon noted, "the gas-siphoning hath begun."
The gas-siphoning hath begun. Guy on W96th 'borrowing' a gallon from his friend. twitter.com/coreykilgannon
- Corey Kilgannon (@coreykilgannon) November 1, 2012
- Emily S. Rueb 
 2:46 P.M. | New Jersey Teachers Cancel Annual Atlantic City Conference 
Next week's convention of New Jersey public school teachers in Atlantic City, an annual tradition loved by children for the two-day holiday that accompanies it, was called off this morning due to damage from Hurricane Sandy. 
The decision to cancel the event, scheduled for Nov. 8 and 9, was made by the New Jersey Education Association, the state teachers' union. It frees the state's roughly 585 districts to decide if they want to open schools to students those days, said Steve Wollmer, communications director for the union.
"Our primary concern is the safety and well-being of everyone in Atlantic City, and everyone planning to attend our convention this year," said Barbara Keshishian, president of the union, in a news release on Thursday morning. "Like Atlantic City, New Jersey's school districts need time to recover and regroup from the devastation of Hurricane Sandy."
Billed as the largest gathering of its kind in the world, the union convention usually attracts up to 30,000 teachers and hosts hundreds of professional development workshops. This year, the author Jonathan Kozol was planning to address the convention, and Charlotte Danielson, an expert in teacher evaluation systems, was slated to talk about the contentious issue of evaluations.
But with Atlantic City reeling from storm damage, and with students in many districts already facing the loss of up to five days of school this week, the union decided to cancel the convention for the first time in its 158-year history. Mr. Wollmer said it was up to each district and local union chapter to decide how best to use the days, which students typically have off.
"We are urging local districts and associations to work cooperatively to come to the best solution," he said.
- Jenny Anderson 
 2:08 P.M. | Death Toll in New York City Rises to 38 
Three days after Hurricane Sandy swept through Staten Island, police search crews continued to find more drowning victims, raising the storm's death toll in New York City to 38, city officials said on Thursday.
The latest victims were the youngest: two brothers, ages 4 and 2, were found dead Thursday morning after a frantic three-day search, the Police Department's chief spokesman, Paul J. Browne, said.
A surge of water had swept the boys from their mother on Monday as they were leaving Staten Island for Brooklyn as the storm arrived. Also on Thursday morning, an elderly couple who had been reported missing were found dead in their car on Staten Island.
The city medical examiner's office knew of 34 deaths. Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the office, said 17 victims were from Staten Island, 8 from Queens, 7 from Brooklyn, and 2 from Manhattan.
In the 24 hours after the storm, accounts emerged of a woman being electrocuted as she walked in Queens and of numerous people being killed by falling trees, both as they walked the streets and stayed in indoors. But as rescue crews are searching the eastern edge of Staten Island, particularly in and around the Midland Beach neighborhood, they are finding numerous drowning victims, many of them elderly.
On Tuesday, the police found the body of Anastasia Rispoli, 73, in a house at 158 Grimsby Street. A few doors away, at 164 Grimsby Street, Beatrice Spagnuolo, 80, was also found dead. Two blocks farther inland, the police discovered an elderly man dead inside a home on Kiswick Street.
A mile to the north, Ella Norris, 89, was found dead at her home on 728 Buel Street, a half block from Father Capodanno Boulevard, which runs along the water. One block farther inland, the police found the body of James Rossi, 85, in deep water in the backyard of his home at 575 Quincy Avenue.
The Staten Island Advance has published brief profiles of several of those killed.
The newspaper notes that "the dead have all been found in the borough's evacuation zones," and many of them "were found trapped in their basements, caught off-guard when a sudden, sustained gush of water trapped them inside, where they either drowned, were electrocuted or were crushed by debris."
The New York Police Department noted on its official Twitter feed on Wednesday that one of those killed on the island was an off-duty police officer, Artur Kasprzak.
We mourn the death of Officer Artur Kasprzak, who died during the storm helping family: http://t.co/N6Pwy5Zn
- NYPD NEWS (@NYPDnews)31 Oct 12
The Police Department account of the officer's death, included in The Advance's article, explained that rescuers tried to reach him. "NYPD personnel from the Emergency Service and Scuba units immediately responded to the residence using Zodiac boats and Jet Skis, but could not access the home due to down, electrified power lines in the water," the department said. "After deeming the house safe to enter, a search commenced. By about 7 a.m., Officer Kasprzak's body was located, unconscious and unresponsive, in the basement. EMS was on scene and pronounced him DOA." 
The Police Department did carry out some dramatic rescues of other residents trapped in flooded Staten Island homes on Tuesday, as video posted online showed.
Video of a rescue on State Island on Tuesday, posted on YouTube by the New York Police Department.
- Joseph Goldstein and Robert Mackey 
 2:37 P.M. | SAT Is Postponed Throughout New York City 
The SAT scheduled for Saturday has been postponed for all students who were registered to take the test in any of the five boroughs of New York City, said Kathleen Steinberg, a spokeswoman of the College Board, which administers the exam.
The makeup date is scheduled for Nov. 17, the weekend before Thanksgiving and two weeks before the regularly scheduled Dec. 1 exam, Ms. Steinberg said.
Read more...
- Tanya Abrams 
 2:33 P.M. | Marathon Organizers Defend Decision to Hold Race 
Mary Wittenberg, chief executive of New York Road Runners, defended the decision to put on the New York City Marathon as scheduled Sunday after some runners and politicians called for the race to be canceled in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, emphasizing the charity fund-raising associated with the race.
"This isn't about running; this is about helping the city," Ms. Wittenberg said Thursday morning as registration began at Jacob K. Javits Center, adding, "We're dedicating this race to the lives that were lost and helping the city recover." 
Before the hurricane, Road Runners was expecting to raise about $34 million for about 300 charities. Ms. Wittenberg said this year's race could be used as a platform for charities that would directly help people affected by the storm. Read more.
- Mary Pilon and Ken Belson 
 01:49 PM | Cuomo and Bloomberg Share Platform and Trade Compliments 
At their first joint appearance since Hurricane Sandy struck - not to mention some time before that - Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo are exchanging effusive praise of each other's efforts in the face of the storm. 
Mr. Cuomo called the mayor "a great partner to me," as Mr. Bloomberg stood beside him outside the closed entrance to the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel in Manhattan, which was choked with storm water that poured in like whitewater rapids on Monday evening. 
"His team is a professional team, and they have been masterful in handling this operation," the governor said of the mayor. "If it wasn't for the mayor and his leadership, this situation would have been much, much worse for the city of New York, and every New Yorker is grateful for his leadership at this time."
At that, Mr. Bloomberg took over the microphone. 
"Governor, thank you for those fine words," Mr. Bloomberg said. "As Henry Kissinger would say, they have the added advantage of being true." 
The mayor went on, "The governor has been accessible; his staff has been accessible."
Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Bloomberg, and their aides, have clashed repeatedly in the past, over topics as large as budget negotiations and as small as what material the governor would read at a memorial ceremony. They rarely appear together in public.
The two men are speaking at a news conference with Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, who is touring the damage in the region. 
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 1:48 P.M. | New Jersey Reels From Storm's Thrashing 
HOBOKEN, N.J. - New Jersey was reeling on Wednesday from the impact of Hurricane Sandy, which has caused catastrophic flooding here in Hoboken and in other New York City suburbs, destroyed entire neighborhoods across the state and wiped out iconic boardwalks in shore towns that had enchanted generations of vacationgoers. 
 Though the storm raged up the East Coast, it has become increasingly apparent that New Jersey took the brunt of it. Officials estimated that the state suffered many billions of dollars in property damage. More than two million customers remained without power on Wednesday, about half of those in the state. More than 6,000 people were still in shelters, state emergency officials said.
At least eight people died, and officials expressed deep concerns that the toll would rise as more searches of homes were carried out.
Read more...
- David M. Halbfinger 
 1:58 P.M. | For Most, 10 Days Till Lights On, Con Ed Says 
 It will take 10 more days for Consolidated Edison to restore power to the "vast majority" of its customers who have had no electricity since Hurricane Sandy hit the region on Monday, the company said on Thursday, though most of those in Manhattan should have their lights on within a couple of days.
But the company added that a small portion of its customers may not have electricity again until late November. The utility did not say where those customers were.
The new target from the company for getting close to full restoration is Nov. 10 or 11, Con Edison said. 
Customers in the city outside Manhattan and in Westchester County, where most of the damage was caused by the toppling of trees and power poles that ripped down overhead wires, may remain in the dark until next weekend.
Over all, there are still about 600,000 Con Ed customers without power, down from a peak of about 850,000.
- Patrick McGeehan 
 12:42 P.M. | FEMA Says Hotels and Apartments, Not Trailers, Will Serve as Temporary Housing 
The dreaded FEMA trailers will most likely not be needed to provide victims of Hurricane Sandy temporary housing, top federal authorities said Thursday, as they detailed the expanding federal response to the storm.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency, which relied heavily on trailers and mobile homes in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, will instead be placing victims temporarily in hotels and apartments, Craig Fugate, the agency director, said. 
Already, about $1 million in assistance for hotel rooms has been provided from from a program that offers direct help to victims, which is available in parts of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
"Given the rental markets and availability of hotels and motels, we don't see the need for any type of trailers," Mr. Fugate said. 
FEMA in past years has come under intense criticism for its use of the trailers, including thousands that were bought but never used, and others that had high levels of formaldehyde in the air, leaving some occupants ill. 
The federal government has also agreed to cover 100 percent of the cost that local and state governments in New Jersey and New York spend to restore electricity and the transit systems, officials in the two states announced, at least for the next 10 days.
"This is a good first step on FEMA's part, and an indication that they know how serious the damage from the storm is," Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said in statement. "This was not a New York disaster, or a New Jersey disaster, or a Connecticut disaster, but a national disaster, and FEMA and the federal government should be providing help to the region to the full extent they can. I will continue to push the feds to reimburse the city and state for the full costs of repair and recovery for all aspects of the disaster."
Mr. Fugate said that the reimbursement decision for the longer term recovery costs would be made after the full costs are assessed. FEMA reimburses state and local governments for at least 75 percent of these costs, and recommends that the president increase the reimbursements to 90 percent when per-capita costs are unusually high, as they are likely to be in this case.
The American Red Cross and FEMA are also expanding their efforts to provide food and water to people who live in the hardest hit areas, with 165,000 meals already served by the Red Cross.
The federal government on Thursday is also to start airlifting utility repair crews from the West Coast to the disaster zone, to accelerate the restoration of electricity. Crews from the Southeast and Midwest have already arrived, as they could drive to the region, Mr. Fugate said.
Mr. Fugate said he realized there were thousands of victims whose needs were still not met.
"All they want to know is when is my power coming back on and can you get me a place to stay?" Mr. Fugate said. "I am not going to be satisfied until everybody that needs housing assistance has that assistance."
- Eric Lipton 
 1:09 P.M. | Two Boys Found Dead on Staten Island 
A frantic three-day search for two young boys who were swept from the arms of their mother on Staten Island ended Thursday when they were found dead at the swampy end of a street, the police said.
The mother told the police that her sons were swept away on Monday. The Staten Island Advance identified the boys as Connor Moore, 4, and Brandon Moore, 2, and the mother as Glenda Moore. They were swept away on Monday shortly after 6 p.m., as the storm arrived. The mother and children had been leaving Staten Island, heading for Brooklyn, as their car was disabled by water, the police said. Ms. Moore, 39, exited her car with her two sons, near Father Capodanno Boulevard, when a surge of water caused her to lose grip of her children, the police said.
The two children were found at the end of McLaughlin Street, said Paul J. Browne, the chief spokesman for the New York Police Department.
"We just brought the parents into a trailer for the awful duty of identifying their little ones," Mr. Browne wrote in an e-mail.
Mr. Browne said later that the boys' father is Damian Moore, 40, a sanitation worker.
The Advance, a local newspaper and Web site, also reported details of the "harrowing account" given to the police by Ms. Moore on Tuesday.
Monday night during the storm, the brothers left home with their mother after they lost power and flood waters began entering. The family took to their SUV and drove toward a shelter when it stalled in the ocean that consumed Capodanno. 
After their mother freed them from the car seats, she carried Brandon and held Connor by the hand trying to escape the rushing waters. She then lost her grip on both of them as the family was battered relentlessly by waves before the boys disappeared in the raging tides. 
After managing to swim out of the flooded marsh, she desperately began seeking help from neighbors, who refused to come to her aid, police said. Officials believe the mother was stranded in the area by herself until 8 a.m. when she found a police car and desperately told them her story. 
- Joseph Goldstein and Robert Mackey 
 12:23 PM | Barriers Against Storm Surges Not Practical, Mayor Says 
"Nature produces great risks," Mr. Bloomberg said, but he appears to disagree with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who has suggested the construction of underwater gates that would prevent storm surges along New York City's waterways. 
"I don't think there's any practical way to build barriers in the oceans," Mr. Bloomberg said, adding: "Even if you spent a fortune, it's not clear to me that you would get much value for it." 
Barriers against storm surges, which can cost many billions of dollars to build, have been constructed in some low-lying European cities to prevent flooding.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:21 PM | Temperatures, Above Freezing, 'Not One of the Big Risks' 
Mr. Bloomberg said it was a blessing that the temperature had stayed above freezing while so much of the city remains without power. 
"The good news is, temperatures are not plummeting," Mr. Bloomberg said. "They are going to be in the 40s or 50s. If the temperatures were in the 30s, then it would be life-threatening, and we would look at it differently. But at the moment, that's not one of the big risks that we run."
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:17 PM | Touch of Sarcasm Returns in Mayor's Briefing 
Asked by Marcia Kramer, a local television news reporter, about the tough conditions faced by motorists traveling into Manhattan from New Jersey on Thursday, Mr. Bloomberg offered a flash of his usual sarcasm, which has been mostly absent from these storm briefings. 
"I don't know how to break this to you: we are all in this together, we are desperately trying to help everybody," the mayor told Ms. Kramer, talking over her question about gasoline shortages. "The first thing is safety; convenience is down the list."
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:14 PM | Silver on Post-Storm Toilets: First Find a Hydrant 
Sheldon Silver, the speaker of the State Assembly and a resident of the Lower East Side, is providing a brutal portrait of life in the powerless section of Manhattan south of 39th Street. To flush a toilet, Mr. Silver said, residents might be forced to collect water from a fire hydrant, carry it inside and pour it into the toilet tank, "if you're lucky enough to have a tank." He said he was grateful that the city would "finally begin to give people what it takes during these difficult times," an apparent reference to the new water and food distribution efforts. And Mr. Silver compared the conditions in downtown Manhattan to the weeks following the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. "For our area, it's almost a repeat of 11 years ago, of 9/11, much of the challenges and the difficulties we faced at that time," Mr. Silver said.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:10 PM | Ban on Construction Lifted; Plan Is in Place to Secure Crane 
Exterior construction work in New York City can resume on Thursday, the mayor said, lifting a ban that had been in effect since the weekend. 
He said a plan was in place to secure the dangling crane on 57th Street in Midtown Manhattan, but he did not provide a timeline for when the restrictions on pedestrian and car traffic in the vicinity would be lifted.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:09 PM | Parks and Playgrounds Expected to Reopen Saturday 
Most parks and playgrounds in New York City, which have been closed since the storm, are expected to reopen by 8 a.m. on Saturday, the mayor said. The parks have been closed due to danger from damaged trees. Beaches around the city also remain closed.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:07 PM | Rockaways Dark Till Next Week; Mayor Urges Caution With Candles 
There was a serious fire on Wednesday evening in the Rockaways started by candles, Mr. Bloomberg said. He urged residents without power to use extreme caution when using candles to provide illumination.
 There was also more bad news for residents who receive electricity through overhead lines: Consolidated Edison does not expect to restore power to all those customers until the end of next week. The utility has said that power for customers whose lines are underground will be restored sooner, and within the next few days in the case of Lower Manhattan.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:03 PM | H.O.V Rule May Be Lifted Tomorrow 
Friday may be the final day that the city restricts automobiles with fewer than three passengers from entering Manhattan, Mr. Bloomberg said. "I know it's annoying; I know it's inconvenient," the mayor said of the temporary rules, which have been vigorously enforced on Thursday by police officers at nearly every tunnel and bridge leading into the island. 
"Safety is our paramount concern, not convenience," Mr. Bloomberg said. The city is hopeful that some subway service between Brooklyn and Manhattan will be restored by next week, which would most likely ease the congestion that has been choking city roads.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 11:59 AM | Cellphone Relief for AT&T Users 
Some relief for iPhone users: AT&T will be deploying trucks that essentially function as roving cellular hot-spots into parts of the city where cell service was disrupted by the storm. Phone users will be able to find a stronger signal and also charge their mobile devices. 
Mayor Bloomberg said he had spoken to the chief executive of AT&T, who pledged to "do everything they can" to fix the situation, which has left thousands of residents in Lower Manhattan without reliable phone service. No word from the mayor, however, about Verizon or T-Mobile.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 11:56 AM | City to Distribute Food and Water 
The city is beginning a large-scale effort to distribute food and water into parts of the city where food shortages have been reported, including parts of Lower Manhattan that have been without electrical power since Monday night, Mayor Bloomberg said.
Beginning at 3 p.m. on Thursday, the city will distribute thousands of bottles of water and prepared meals at distribution centers around the city, including sites in the Rockaways, Coney Island, and parts of Staten Island. Residents will be allowed to take three meals and five bottles of water at a time. "Bring your own bag," the mayor said.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 11:59 AM | Interstate 95 Closed in Connecticut Because of Gas Leak 
FEMA briefing w/ Secretary Napolitano http://t.co/9IvFpbu1
- Governor Dan Malloy (@GovMalloyOffice)1 Nov 12
Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut said Interstate 95 had been closed in Milford, on the shoreline between Bridgeport and New Haven, because of a gas leak. 
Breaking: A gas line around I-95 in #Milford has caught fire. I-95 N&S around Exit 37 is closed, emergency crews responding.
- Governor Dan Malloy (@GovMalloyOffice)1 Nov 12
Mr. Malloy, speaking at a news briefing in Bridgeport with the federal homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, said it was not immediately clear if the leak was related to the storm. Mr. Malloy's office said the highway was closed in both directions near Exit 37, and emergency crews were responding to the leak.
- Thomas Kaplan 
 11:41 AM | Bloomberg Says City Death Toll Is Now at 37 
Thirty-seven people in New York City have died from the storm, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said this morning. Mr. Blomberg is giving his first briefing of the day at City Hall. He said he expected the death toll to continue to rise.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 11:22 A.M. | Bloomberg to Speak 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg updated New Yorkers on the storm recovery efforts at 11:30 a.m. Video of the press conference appears above. Watch live video of the news conference on nytimes.com or in the Top News sections of New York Times mobile apps.
- The New York Times 
 11:10 A.M. | Checkpoints Mistakenly Set Up at George Washington Bridge 
With a three-passenger minimum for private cars being enforced at virtually all major crossings into Manhattan, the George Washington Bridge was eyed Thursday morning as a rare exception.
Until it wasn't.
Though cars were supposed to be able to cross the bridge without restrictions, Howard Glaser, the director of state operations, said on Twitter shortly after 7 a.m., "NYPD mistakenly put checkpoints up at GW bridge. We are alerting the City now to pull those checkpoints."
Whoops! RT @hglaser1 NYPD mistakenly put checkpoints up at GW bridge. We are alerting the City now to pull those checkpoints.
- Tom Namako (@TomNamako) November 1, 2012
It was unclear how long the police had enforced the high-occupy-vehicle rules at the bridge, but officials said they believed the enforcement had stopped by mid-morning.
Asked about reports of officers enforcing the rules at the bridge, a New York police spokesman said, "There is no enforcement over there." Asked if there had been enforcement earlier in the day, he said, "not that we're aware of."
Commuters begged to differ. 
@brianlehrer @billdeblasio Police ARE checking at GWB for HOV compliance.Pushing drivers north that don't comply!
- Jimmy Andruszkewicz (@jimmya2z) November 1, 2012
"Why is there an HOV checkpoint at GWB?!" another tweeting traveler demanded of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York. "We were told it was an exception."
@nygovcuomo why is there an HOV checkpoint at GWB?! We were told it was an exception.
- Travis Sherer (@PAtravis) November 1, 2012
- Matt Flegenheimer 
 11:02 A.M. | New York Postpones Ballot Deadlines 
In the wake of Hurricane Sandy, the New York State Board of Elections said Thursday that it had pushed back the deadline for voters to apply for absentee ballots by mail or fax. The deadline had been Tuesday, but at an emergency meeting late Wednesday, the board agreed to continue accepting applications through Friday.
Voters can still go to their local board of elections and apply in person for an absentee ballot as late as Monday, the day before Election Day. The board also extended the deadline for county boards of elections to receive absentee ballots after the election, to Nov. 19 from Nov. 13, to account for possible postal delays. Absentee ballots being returned by mail still must be postmarked by Monday. 
Aside from the presidential race, New York's only statewide contest is for the United States Senate seat currently held by Kirsten E. Gillibrand, a Democrat who is being challenged by Wendy E. Long, a Republican. All of New York's 27 Congressional seats will also be up for grabs on Tuesday, as will the 213 seats in the State Legislature and a variety of local offices.
- Thomas Kaplan 
 10:48 A.M. | Storm's Economic Damage Will Approach $50 Billion 
The losses from Hurricane Sandy will approach $50 billion, according to an early estimate from the economists at Moody's Analytics.
About $20 billion of that total is from economic activity like meals served in restaurants, plane flights canceled and bets not made in casinos, said Mark Zandi of Moody's. The rest, about $30 billion, will be in damages to property, including homes, cars and businesses, Mr. Zandi said.
He estimated that about 60 percent of the losses in economic activity, or about $12 billion, came from the New York City metropolitan area, including northern New Jersey, Long Island and the New York suburbs.
Hurricane Sandy will rank high among disasters in terms of economic impact, but will not be at the top of the list, Mr. Zandi said. He said the losses would be less than half of those suffered because of the 9/11 terrorist attacks and from Hurricane Katrina.
- Patrick McGeehan 
 10:23 A.M. | In Brooklyn, Flagging Down Drivers: Faster Than the Bus 
 By 9:30 a.m., the lines outside the Barclays Center in Brooklyn for free shuttle buses into Manhattan were so long that city Transportation Department workers were reported to be flagging down Manhattan-bound motorists and asking them to pick up passengers from the overflow.
@nyc_dot on #NBC4NY telling cars driving by Barclay's Ctr. to pick up people waiting in shuttle bus lines & drive them to city! #tellnyt
- Meredith Vilarello (@meredithvil) November 1, 2012
Impromptu carpooling was the order of the morning at the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge, too, with drivers needing passengers to meet the three-occupant minimum to get into Manhattan happy to offer rides to pedestrians heading for the bridge.
Near the corner of Jay and Nassau Streets, Manolito Hill pulled his white S.U.V. over and shouted out the window at two men.
"You going in? Come on!" he shouted.
As the two strangers slammed the backseat doors, Mr. Hill said, "They need it; everybody got to get to work." 
Federica Gherardi, 27, who runs a fashion showroom in downtown Manhattan, stopped at the Mobil Mart at Flatbush Avenue and Johnson Street just before the Manhattan Bridge. She needed to fill up her ZipCar, not with gasoline, but with people.
"They told me if I found two passengers I could go," she said. "So I stopped at the gas station."
Dayoung Shin, who works in fashion in Midtown, hopped into her passenger seat.
Then a young man and his girlfriend simply opened up the backseat doors of the car and climbed inside.
"Come on, hurry up," the man shouted in classic New York fashion. "Let's go."
- Nate Schweber and Emily S. Rueb 
 9:54 A.M. | Snarled Highway? Great Place to Find Extra Passengers 
The three-occupant minimum on cars heading into Manhattan came as news to many New Jersey commuters this morning as they headed toward the Lincoln Tunnel checkpoint. 
Fortunately, on Route 495, they had ample opportunity to pick up the extra passengers they needed: the road was a parking lot. 
i'm walking on sardined 495 talking to non-HOV commuters. many said they didn't know. "you want a ride?" some asked. #newcommute
- David W. Chen (@davidwchen) November 1, 2012
"We became aware of it when we saw a sign, and then heard it on the radio but by then it was too late," said Charles Prettyman of Ridgewood, an architect who was short one passenger. "I'm hoping we can pick up someone. You want a ride?"
After the checkpoint just outside the tunnel, the traffic cleared and cars zoomed in to Manhattan.
- David W. Chen 
 9:13 A.M. | Lights Back on for 225,000 Con Edison Customers 
Consolidated Edison has restored power to more than 225,000 customers since the storm ended, the utility announced this morning, including the southwest corner of Manhattan.
Restored Area: Bounded by Vessey to the N, West St to the W, Bway/State St to the E and tip of Manhattan to the S. Also Brighton Beach area.
- Con Edison (@ConEdison) November 1, 2012
That still leaves 676,000 customers in the dark, including 227,000 customers in Manhattan, 166,000 in Westchester County, 103,000 in Queens, 59,000 in Brooklyn, 83,000 on Staten Island and 36,000 in the Bronx.
The utility says that it expects power to be restored by tomorrow or Saturday for most of Manhattan, except for buildings that have sustained water damage.
#Manhattan customers should have power by FRI/SAT, all underground customers will be restored by Sat, @conedison says #sandy
- Andrew Cuomo (@NYGovCuomo) November 1, 2012
- Andy Newman 
 8:55 A.M. | La Guardia Airport Reopens; So Does Air Train to J.F.K. 
Air travel eased a little bit more on Thursday as La Guardia Airport, which had been shut down because of severe flooding from Hurricane Sandy, opened at 7 a.m., the third and last of the major New York City area airports to resume some services.
Some service was also restored Thursday on the Air Train to Kennedy International Airport, which connects the subway and train complex in Jamaica, Queens, to the airport. Long Island Rail Road trains are still down, but there is some subway service to Jamaica. 
AirTrain JFK has resumed limited service. Svc will be avail fm Jamaica & Howard Beach to Federal Circle, buses will provide to terminals.
- EWR JFK LGA SWF (@NY_NJairports) November 1, 2012
- Christine Hauser 
 8:42 A.M. | Tell Us About Your Commute 
We are collecting your transit stories this morning. Please share them with us. Here's how: 
What was your NYC commute this morning (mode and route) and how long did it take? Tweet us the details w/ #AskNYT
- NYT Metro Desk(@NYTMetro) November 1, 2012
And follow @nytmetro on Twitter for continuous updates on the storm recovery in New York and the region. If you are not on Twitter, subscribe to our updates via SMS by sending the following text message to 40404: follow nytmetro 
 8:40 A.M. | Mayor Waives 3-Occupant Limit for Taxis Into Manhattan 
With traffic somewhat improved from yesterday but some of the high-occupancy-vehicle checkpoints at Manhattan's entrances doubling as chokepoints, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg lifted the three-occupant limit for taxis and livery cars coming in around 8:15 a.m.
Effective immediately, all taxis, liveries, black cars and other TLC-licensed vehicles are exempt from HOV restrictions on bridges.
- NYC Mayor's Office (@NYCMayorsOffice) November 1, 2012
At the Ed Koch Queensboro Bridge, where every road in Queens leading to the bridge entrance was jammed and checkpoints were set up on both sides, police officers pulling over drivers at the Manhattan end appeared to be backing up traffic. Cars waiting to get on the bridge in Queens were backed up for more than 10 blocks down Northern Boulevard as they submitted to police checks.
- Andy Newman and Sarah Maslin Nir 
 7:37 A.M. | Where the City of Darkness Meets the City of Light 
The aftermath of Hurricane Sandy has temporarily created two cities in Manhattan: one where restaurants serve hot food and warm water runs from the tap, and another where the phones are dead and a shower is like a dream.
At the boundary, around 40th Street on the East Side, an unusual makeshift community has sprung up, one where the basic building blocks of a New York neighborhood - a pizza place, an unremarkable deli, a bank - have become an oasis.
Wednesday evening and into the night, the people from downtown emerged from the cold, enveloping darkness by the hundreds, some with flashlights, some with towels just in case they found a place to shower, some with gallon containers to fill with water to flush the toilet. They stepped into the bright Midtown at East 39th Street at the place where the blackout ends.
Joe Album, 50, had walked with his wife and teenage daughter from 28th Street. They sat at a dingy table in the back of the 765 Food Market on 41st Street and Second Avenue, a few feet from the grim hot buffet with its clumpy ziti and brownish corn. He was nursing a coffee with a fruit fly at the rim, charging the family's phones on a power strip and postponing the walk back home as long as he could.
"It's just so dark and gloomy at home that it's better to be out," said Mr. Album, wrapped in a hat and warm coat. "Plus the apartment is starting to get cold. And when you just sit there, it gets colder."
The most popular place, unexpectedly, has become a Chase Bank on Third Avenue, which has been opening its doors to whomever comes, allowing them to bring their dogs inside, charge their phones, use the bathroom and Internet, and get free water and coffee. It has also become something of a tourist attraction.
As downtowners straggle in, some with piercings and leather jackets and mutts on rope leashes, clustering around power strips by the A.T.M.s at all hours, the Midtown tourists take pictures through the large picture windows, capturing what may be the closest they will come to the City of Darkness.
"They say, 'Look at these poor people,'" said Agata Shultz, 19, who walked up from the East Village and sat on a heated window ledge reading philosophy in Polish and checking her e-mail.
"It's like a zoo."
Eric Liebowitz, a photographer who lives on 19th Street, sat on the floor of the bank in a ski hat waiting for his phone to charge. "We are the dark people," he said.
"The people uptown have no clue what's going on down here," he said - and he was enjoying himself, in a way. "Come downtown!" he had just written in a text to a friend. "You will never have an opportunity to see New York like this again - for another year!"
Some people said they had been turned away from hotel lobbies, other banks and cafes near 40th Street when asked if they could charge their phones. It was as if, said Gabriella Sonam, a massage therapist who had biked up from the East Village, they didn't even know a national emergency was going on just across the street. 
"I'm not traumatized by the storm, I'm traumatized by the indifference," she said near tears.
Joan Koveleski, a bartender with a Siberian husky and streaked magenta hair, had walked with her husband from Houston Street.
After so long in the dark, she said, crossing into the other New York felt like culture shock.
"We had to remember the traffic lights worked up here," she said. They had been walking in the street. But they, too, after getting some cash from a working A.T.M. and charging her computer and phone, would be headed back to where flashing police lights and the headlights of cars are the brightest illumination.
"Maybe we'll watch a movie on our computer tonight," she said.
"There's nothing else to do except sit in the dark."
- Sharon Otterman 
 7:13 A.M. | Some Improvement, but Traffic Woes Continue 
The morning rush began well before dawn on Thursday as drivers raced - and then crawled - to beat the gridlock that made Wednesday's commute nightmarish.
By 6:30 a.m., traffic had cleared up in some areas, with the early commuters, the return of limited subway service and a high-occupancy vehicle rule making the roads slightly less congested than they had been on Wednesday.
But much of the region's arterial system remained a parking lot as of 7 a.m., with police checkpoints set up in many places to enforce the ban on cars carrying fewer than three people into Manhattan, except at the George Washington Bridge.
It wasn't until he reached the Ed Koch Queensboro Bridge at around 6 a.m. that Jason Freire, 29, learned that if he didn't have at least two other passengers in his car, he couldn't cross.
"A police officer looked in my car and told me I couldn't cross until I got two more people," said Mr. Freire, who works with the homeless in East Harlem, documenting their whereabouts and directing them away from the East River Promenade to shelters. He ended up parking and taking the subway, which began running from Queens into Manhattan around 5:30. 
Bad delays were reported at 7 a.m. at the following:
*Verrazano-Narrows Bridge from Staten Island to Brooklyn
*Gowanus/B.Q.E. from Verrazano all the way to Brooklyn Bridge
*Inbound Brooklyn Bridge 
*Long Island Expressway west of the Clearview exit
*Robert F. Kennedy Bridge
*Bruckner from the Bronx River Parkway to Kennedy Bridge
*Major Deegan in the Bronx, both directions
*Lincoln Tunnel inbound - I-495 backed up out to New Jersey Turnpike
- Andy Newman and Stacey Stowe 
 6:30 A.M. | In Brooklyn, Long Lines for Shuttle Buses to Manhattan 
With subway trains still unable to get over or under the East River from Brooklyn to Manhattan because of flooding and power problems, service between the two boroughs is by shuttle bus, with departures from the transportation hub at the Barclays Center and from Hewes Street on the border of Williamsburg and Bedford-Stuyvesant, in Brooklyn.
Still, said Carol Jackson as she waited in a long line for a bus in front of the arena, "It's a relief."
Ms. Jackson, who lives in Crown Heights and took one of the first subways to tge Barclays Center to catch the bus to Manhattan, said her commute to her job at an Au Bon Pain near Bryant Park was a welcome change from Wednesday, when she had to walk over the Brooklyn Bridge.
The Barclays Center bus makes its first stop at Bowery and Delancey Streets, and continues up Third Avenue in Manhattan, making stops all the way up to 57th Street.
Raffique Lewis, 29, an electrician at the Marriott Hotel on Lexington Avenue who was returning to work for the first time since the storm struck, was daunted when he got out of the subway at Barclays Center from deeper in Brooklyn and saw lines for the buses to Manhattan stretching down the block.
"To come out and see this is just too much, the lines, it's cold out," he said. "I could've just waited until next week."
Alberto Rivera, 46, a window washer, struggled to navigate the subway-to-bus transfer.
By 6:10 a.m., the bus line was being kept orderly by M.T.A. workers and the police, but it stretched for several blocks.
- Nate Schweber 
 6:08 A.M. | Limited Subway Service Resumes 
A half-hour earlier than scheduled - and not a moment too soon - New York City's subway system lurched into motion around 5:30 a.m. 
And some of the earliest customers emerged from the 63rd Street F station on the Upper East Side wearing big smiles. 
"It wasn't crowded at all," said Pat Farni, 29, a nanny who had gotten on in Elmhurst, Queens, and was headed to the Waldorf Astoria to take care of children who were staying there after their TriBeCa home lost power. "The man at the station said it wouldn't run until 6 but we got on around 5:30."
Train service is limited - service between Brooklyn and Manhattan is by shuttle bus - but it is free Thursday and Friday, as are the buses. See map. 
On Wednesday, Ms. Farni and her friend Aun Srilarp, also a nanny, had taken buses and gotten car rides to work. One bus ride from Manhattan to Queens took four hours, Ms. Srilarp said.
"Yesterday, the line for the bus from Queens was two blocks long," she said. "The train this morning was great."
- Stacey Stowe 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); POWER FAILURES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); FIRES (64%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (56%) Weather

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2012



1305 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: Floodwaters Rise, Web Sites Fall

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: As computer centers in Lower Manhattan and New Jersey shut down or went to emergency operations after power failures and water damage on Monday night, companies scrambled to move the engines of modern communication to other parts of the country. Others rushed to find fuel for backup power generation. In some cases, things just stopped. 

 BODY:
Here is a lesson every Web site manager may be taking away from Hurricane Sandy: It is probably not a good idea to put the backup power generators where it floods.
Quentin Hardy and Jenna Wortham of The New York Timesreport that as computer centers in Lower Manhattan and New Jersey shut down or went to emergency operations after power failures and water damage on Monday night, companies scrambled to move the engines of modern communication to other parts of the country. Others rushed to find fuel for backup power generation. In some cases, things just stopped. 
They note that as more of life moves online, damage to critical Internet systems affects more of the economy, and disasters like Hurricane Sandy reveal vulnerabilities from the sometimes ad hoc organization of computer networks. In places like Manhattan, advanced technology comes up against aging infrastructure and space constraints, pressing servers and generators into whatever space is available. 
The largest telecommunications company affected by the storm appeared to be Verizon, which lost a considerable amount of old-fashioned wired phone service to the flooding. Bill Kula, a Verizon spokesman, said the storm surge from the hurricane flooded its central offices in Lower Manhattan, Queens and Long Island, causing power failures. 
Many companies affected by the storm and its aftermath built out distributed virtual networks of people, as well. Ben Smith, the editor of BuzzFeed, said engineers worked throughout the night to shift the site to Amazon Web Services from Datagram, whose Lower Manhattan operations were flooded. Mr. Smith said one man, Eugene Ventimiglia of Emerson, N.J., was working from home when a tree crashed through his house. He soldiered on.

        
For Dell, Consolidation Is Innovation
        
In Cyberattacks on Banks, Evidence of a New Weapon
        
Facebook's 5% Solution in Data Centers
        
When Internet Factories Come to Town
        
Power, Pollution and the Internet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POWER FAILURES (91%); HURRICANES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (76%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (74%); ENGINEERING (74%); CYBERCRIME (72%) Data Centers; hurricane; Data

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); FACEBOOK INC (53%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (91%); VZ (NYSE) (91%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1306 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: A Keynesian Blind Spot

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Government programs that ameliorate hardship also give people an incentive not to work, and Keynesians seem unable to acknowledge that, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
The decline of home construction is not the primary reason that our labor market remains depressed: Keynesian policies are.
If we accept that the housing sector was overbuilt by 2006, then it might seem inevitable that a recession would follow as the housing sector downsized, workers shifted from construction to other industries and workers moved from overbuilt regions to other places in America. 
But as Paul Krugman points out in his "End This Depression Now!" the recession of 2008-9 did not have many industries that were growing, let alone growing as a consequence of reallocation away from home construction.
Moreover, transitions between industries and regions have happened before, but happened gradually as demographic and other trends slowly but powerfully altered the composition of economic activity. By comparison, this recession came on suddenly.
To put it another way: for every worker that construction lost between 2007 and 2010, the rest of the economy lost at least another five workers, rather than gaining workers. I agree with Professor Krugman and other opponents of the "sectoral shifts theory" that something must have happened - in less than a year or two - that profoundly affected practically all industries and practically every region.

But just because sectoral shifts are at best a small part of what happened does not mean that huge government subsidies would take the labor market back to what it was before the recession. A Keynesian-style demand collapse is not the only aggregate event that could happen or did happen.
In my new book, I explain how, in the matter of a few quarters of 2008 and 2009, new federal and state laws greatly enhanced the help given to the poor and unemployed - from expansion of food-stamp eligibility to enlargement of food-stamp benefits to payment of unemployment bonuses - sharply eroding (and, in some cases, fully eliminating) the incentives for workers to seek and retain jobs, and for employers to create jobs or avoid layoffs.
Economists normally think that eroding incentives (as they call it, raising marginal labor income tax rates) depresses the labor market rather than expanding it, and that it would be tough for the labor market to get back to its 2007 form without returning incentives to what they were back then.
Yet Professor Krugman asserts that he would end this depression now with an even bigger stimulus - with more help for the poor and unemployed - that would further erode incentives and further penalize success.
Remarkably, "End This Depression Now!" says nothing about marginal tax rates or incentives to work, either as they actually evolved or as they would appear in Professor Krugman's ideal stimulus. Nor does the book explain why economists or anyone else should ignore sharp marginal tax-rate increases, or why paying people for not working would have nearly the expansionary effect of military buildups and the like. (These absences are conspicuous to economists who are familiar with Professor Krugman's academic work on how excessive debts harm debtor incentives.)
"End This Depression Now!" is full of interesting and relevant observations, but don't expect its author to mention, let alone appreciate, a non-Keynesian explanation for any of them.

        
Labor-Market Scars Left by Redistributive Public Policy
        
Growing Businesses Cut Payrolls, Too
        
The Flawed Case for Fiscal Stimulus
        
The Baby Boom and Economic Recovery
        
The Rise and Fall of Wages

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); WRITERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TRENDS (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); FOOD STAMPS (67%); INCOME TAX (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; demand; fiscal stimulus; Food Stamps; John Maynard Keynes; Keynesianism; Paul Krugman; supply and demand; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance; Krugman, Paul; Economics (Theory and Philosophy); Recession and Depression; United States Economy; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%) Krugman, Paul

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1307 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: Asymmetrical "Uncertainty"

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: It's not the fault of both parties. 

 BODY:
Ever since it came out, Obama-bashers have loved to cite a paper by Baker, Bloom, and Davis claiming that policy uncertainty is holding back the recovery. See, they say, it's Obama and his socialist plans! The paper never deserved this much weight -- like the Alesina/Ardagna work on expansionary austerity, or, yes, the unfortunate and uncharacteristically sloppy Reinhart/Rogoff paper on the burden of debt, it's preliminary academic research that has been seized on for political gain.
Furthermore, as many of us noted, the actual sources of spikes uncertainty as Baker et al measure it were the euro crisis and the debt ceiling confrontation, not the Obama agenda. And to the extent that it was the latter, this is really about Republican extremism, not Obama socialism.
Well, Baker et al have what I think is meant to be a response to this point in Vox. Except that it isn't really a response. They declare that "in our view" the responsibility lies with both parties, and list some talking points; but that's not evidence. Their data continue to show uncertainty (as they measure it) rising with the debt ceiling and again with the fiscal cliff.
And let's be clear: the fiscal cliff issue reflects GOP intransigence. The sequester was part of the deal to buy the GOP off on the debt ceiling. Beyond that, Republicans want something -- making all the Bush tax cuts permanent -- that they don't have the votes to pass in Congress. So they're holding America hostage, saying -- more or less explicitly -- that if they can't have what they want but can't pass, they'll tank the whole economy.
Notice how nobody says that if Romney wins but Democrats hold the Senate, a quite possible outcome, that there will be an economic disaster because those Senate Dems will prevent a deal on taxes and spending. 
Sorry, but this isn't symmetrical. To the extent that policy uncertainty is a factor, it's a factor because we have the most ruthless, self-absorbed opposition party since the 1850s.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); TAX LAW (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012



1308 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: Sandy and the Need for More Paperwork for Mortgages

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Hurricane Sandy is causing lenders to make adjustments to mortgage loan applications. 

 BODY:
A colleague whose home is located in an area affected by Hurricane Sandy thought he had signed the final papers last week for a refinance of his mortgage. But on Wednesday, his lender said that because his home was in a declared disaster area, he'd have to provide additional documents.
That might not be the easiest thing to do, since getting documents may be a challenge for those in areas without power.
A Bank of America spokesman, Kris Yamamoto, said that due to "G.S.E. guidelines and our policy, and depending on the category of the disaster area," there may be additional requirements to process a loan, like an inspection or certification on the property. (The term G.S.E. refers to government-sponsored enterprises like Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, which are major buyers of home loans.)
He also said that if the processing of a loan is delayed due to a bank site being temporarily closed and the interest rate lock expires during that time, the customer will continue to qualify for their previous interest rate.
A Chase spokeswoman said she was looking into my inquiry. Meantime, she said, Chase is automatically giving many borrowers affected by the storm an extra seven-day extension on an interest-rate lock, if they were scheduled to close on a mortgage this week. (She said the extension applies to Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia and Washington, D.C.)
Wells Fargo didn't immediately respond to an e-mail request for information about how the storm is affecting loan applications.
Do you have a home loan or refinance pending? Has the storm affected your application?

        
How Lenders Make Money (and Create It Too)
        
Refinancing Spikes as Mortgage Rates Fall
        
The Boom (and Bust) That Your Mortgage Bonds Built
        
Why Consumers May Not Win Much From Latest Fed Action
        
Shrinking Mortgage Disclosures Isn't Easy, It Seems

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HURRICANE SANDY (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (72%); BONDS (69%) Mortgages; Hurricane Sandy (2012); Bank of America Corporation; Wells Fargo & Company; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Wells Fargo & Company|WFC|NYSE

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Wells Fargo & Company

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Wells Fargo & Company; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (70%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (70%); MARYLAND, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012



1309 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1923 words

HEADLINE: Teaching the Election in the Final Week: Bellwethers, Unicorns and Attack Ads

BYLINE: TOM MARSHALL and MICHAEL GONCHAR


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson we suggest a number of activities students can do in the final week before Nov. 6, focusing on a look at the people and places in their own lives that might offer insight into the issues and ideas of this election. 

 BODY:
 Note: For a complete list of all our Election 2012 resources, visit our "Election 2012: Teaching Ideas and Resources" page. 
 Overview | Politics isn't just about speeches and money. It's also about people in hometowns across America who will soon decide which presidential candidate has earned their trust for the next four years.
In this lesson we suggest many ways students can look for the people and places in their own lives that might offer insight into the Nov. 6 election. We begin with a narrative about one Ohio town that represents a cross-section of America to explore the real-life issues that motivate voting decisions. 
Then, we suggest a number of other things students can do, including:

        
Research their own hometown
        
Analyze the almost mythical "undecided voter"
        
Offer the candidates advice on swing state voters
        
Think about how they got their own political beliefs
        
Keep track of political ads
        
Rethink the Electoral College
        
Make predictions and follow the Election Day returns
        
Consider the questions Hurricane Sandy raises about the election.
 Materials | Computer with Internet connection, speakers and projector to display video and audio; computers for individual students or groups to read stories from The New York Times online, or copies of stories as needed.
 Warm-Up | Tell students:
 Today we're going to take a closer look at the national election on Nov. 6. How much are people talking about the election in your home or around the neighborhood? And, what sorts of issues are coming up in those conversations? 
Write brainstorming ideas on the board.
 To begin, we're going to read a story and watch some video about a small town in Ohio. While you're listening, I want you to keep one question in mind: what does this have to do with the election? 
 Related | Dan Barry, a reporter and columnist for The New York Times, spent 10 months chronicling the lives of customers and workers at a diner in Elyria, Ohio, seeking a window into small-town America during the 2012 election. Its owner, Donna Dove, has kept her business running even as sales have plummeted, because she believes the community needs places like Donna's Diner.
It is where the recession and other issues of the day are lived as much as discussed. Where expectations for a certain lifestyle have been lowered and hopes for salvation through education and technology have been raised. Where the presidential nominees Barack Obama and Mitt Romney each hope that his plan for a way back will resonate with the Donna Doves, who try to get by in places like Elyria - where the American dream they talk about can sometimes seem like a tease.
 Background Vocabulary: Read the first two pages of "At the Corner of Hope and Worry" with your class and watch the first video (about seven minutes). Then answer the questions below. You may wish to introduce students to the following words or concepts before reading: 401(k), curio, swing state, nonagenarian, entrepreneurial, bellwether.
 Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension:

        
What does this place, Donna's Diner, have to do with the national election in the United States?
        
Why do you think the reporter spent so much time, around 12 visits, coming back and talking to these people?
        
Why do you think the reporter didn't just march into the diner and ask everyone who they were planning to vote for?
        
What are the issues that seem to be on the minds of these people in Elyria, Ohio?
        
Do these people or their conversations remind you of anyone you've met, or people in your own lives?
Note: Teachers may also wish to share with students this story in Elyria's local newspaper, The Chronicle-Telegram, in which Dan Barry of The Times talks about his work on the Donna's Diner series.
 Going Further: Teaching About the Election 

 The Bellwether Cafe 
Read more from the series on Donna's Diner and the accompanying videos. Ask students to choose a character from the stories and write a short profile, gathering details about their lives, dreams and concerns. Then ask students to identify their own bellwether establishment in their neighborhood or town - a cafe, hardware store, public library or other place where people gather to discuss the issue of the day. Students could visit individually or as a class, and write about how that place or one of its regular visitors helps to define the area. 

 Looking for Unicorns 
Are undecided voters really as rare as those mythical, one-horned beasts, as some commentators believe? Or are there still good reasons for people to sit on the fence between the Republican and Democratic Party candidates? Track news coverage and commentary on undecided voters in The New York Times, including this story on female swing voters. Students can also listen to this NPR story and watch a "Saturday Night Live" skit on the topic. 
Then ask students to develop a list of undecided voters in their family, neighborhood or town. They should record general details such as gender, age and race, as well as the key issues that might determine each person's vote and whether they're leaning toward one candidate or the other. (Note: teachers may wish to advise students to make up a fictional name or number for each of the voters on their list in order to ensure privacy.) 
Students should keep track of their lists and report back to class on Election Day with results on whether their undecided voters went to the polls and how they voted. Then collate the lists for the whole class and send a summary of both early and election-day results back to the comments section for this post, including your school and geographic location.

 Targeting Voters 
Which groups of voters offer the key to victory in the final days of campaigning, and how should candidates conduct themselves in seeking those votes? Read these Room for Debate stories on swing-state voters. Students can also survey the latest coverage on the election, such as this story on the race in Ohio. Then ask students to write their own letters to a candidate, offering advice on the best strategy for capturing those last-minute undecided votes or changing minds. 

 Liberal and Conservative Brains: 
What do these political labels mean, and how exactly do people acquire the beliefs that put them into one camp or the other? Ask students to do some personal brainstorming on whether they're liberal or conservative, which issues matter most for them and how they acquired those beliefs. They can draw a personal "influence tree" charting their own political beliefs and the people or experiences that inspired them. Students can then critique this analysis on why some parts of the country have tended to vote "red" or "blue" in past elections. Does it ring true, or would students offer different explanations for the origin of their own belief systems?

 An Avalanche of Ads 
The 2012 election is expected to be the most expensive in history, thanks in part to the United States Supreme Court's ruling in the case Citizens United vs. the Federal Election Commission. How will these changes affect typical voters? Ask students to read about campaign advertising, workplace issues, privacy concerns and other campaign finance stories. Students can keep a personal journal on political advertising and get-out-the-vote efforts in your area during the week before the election, keeping track of who's paying and whether each effort seems to be fair and useful in educating or influencing voters.
 Flukes of the System 
Read this story about over the Electoral College. Is there a better way, or does the use of electors still help to balance the interests of smaller states and groups against the will of the majority? Research the issues surrounding election reform, the , and related topics. You may also want to watch Mo Rocca's Op-Doc piece "Electoral College 101". Then ask student groups to propose modifications to America's voting system for the 21st century.

 Paths to Victory 
What has to happen on Nov. 6 to make Barack Obama a one-term president? What are his chances of retaining office, and what will it take for Mitt Romney to capture the White House? Ask students to start following by Nate Silver, a polling analyst who blogs for The Times, as well as other polling coverage by The Times and Real Clear Politics. 
Then look at this interactive graphic that shows how the election might turn out under different voting scenarios. As a culminating activity, ask students to make predictions on which candidates will capture key swing states and win the overall general election. Follow the returns on Election Day, and then announce winners of the class contest once the national vote is tallied. (Note: this activity can also be used to follow local or Congressional races.)
 Voting After Sandy 
In "Storm Brings Obstacles One Week Before Vote," Michael Cooper lists some of the complications this historic hurricane has brought to the democratic process - including the fact that more than 8.2 million households were without power by midday on Oct. 30, with more than a fifth of them in swing states.
What has to happen legally to change the date of a presidential election? Should the United States consider it this year? How ready will states hit by the storm be for voting next Tuesday? Follow The Caucus and the New York Region interactive "Tracking the Storm" for updates, then make a case for what you think should be done and why.
And for more about politics and Sandy, see our full list of suggestions in Teaching Hurricane Sandy: Ideas and Resources
Common Core ELA Standards, 6-12
 Reading 
1. Read closely to determine what the text says explicitly and to make logical inferences from it; cite specific textual evidence when writing or speaking to support conclusions drawn from the text.
3. Analyze how and why individuals, events, and ideas develop and interact over the course of a text.
10. Read and comprehend complex literary and informational texts independently and proficiently.
 Writing 
2. Write informative/explanatory texts to examine and convey complex ideas and information clearly and accurately through the effective selection, organization and analysis of content.
7. Conduct short as well as more sustained research projects based on focused questions, demonstrating understanding of the subject under investigation.
8. Gather relevant information from multiple print and digital sources, assess the credibility and accuracy of each source, and integrate the information while avoiding plagiarism.
9. Draw evidence from literary or informational texts to support analysis, reflection and research.
 Speaking and Listening 
1. Prepare for and participate effectively in a range of conversations and collaborations with diverse partners, building on others' ideas and expressing their own clearly and persuasively.
McREL Standards
 Civics 
11. Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values, political beliefs and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse American society.
14. Understands issues concerning the disparities between ideals and reality in American political and social life.
20. Understands the roles of political parties, campaigns, elections and associations and groups in American politics.
28. Understands how participation in civic and political life can help citizens attain individual and public goals. 

        
Voter ID Laws and Election 2012
        
The Second Presidential Debate: Your Predictions and Reactions
        
Watching the First Presidential Debate: What Is Your Reaction?
        
Matching Quiz | Presidential Election History
        
Teaching With the Presidential Debates

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); HISTORY (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); WRITERS (71%); HURRICANE SANDY (52%) Presidential Election of 2012; American Government; American History; Civics; Elections in the United States; Lesson Plans; Politics and Policy; Social Studies; The White House; U.S. Presidency

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012



1310 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Who Should You Vote For?

BYLINE: GARY GUTTING


HIGHLIGHT: A brief guide for the undecided. 

 BODY:
This has been a presidential campaign of percentages: the 1 percent, the 99 percent and, more recently, the 47 percent. Here is a column for the 4 percent: those who still haven't decided. As a philosopher, I don't propose to tell you who to vote for, but to offer a rational framework for making a decision. Also, I'm assuming that your indecision isn't because of ignorance of the candidates and their views. You've been following the campaign, have an adequate knowledge of the candidates' records and view, but still haven't been able to make up your mind. So how can you decide?
A first suggestion is to avoid the fallacy of the most recent information. You already know a great deal, pro and con, about Obama and Romney, and it hasn't led you to a decision. How could a few further facts - a last-minute gaffe, a change in the unemployment rate, a new attack ad - make a decisive difference? Don't privilege the tiny sliver of data that comes in during the next few days over the substantial body of information you've accumulated over months and even years.

If this is right, then you can't make your decision through an assessment of the candidates' competence in governing. If their past records and actions over the long campaign haven't convinced you that one will be more competent, deciding the question from what happens between now and the election will commit the fallacy of the most recent information.
Similarly, there's no reason to think that you will learn of some further detail or nuance of Obama's or Romney's policy positions that will make all the difference. You know what their positions are. The question is which to prefer. Answering this question requires a view of what is at stake in this election. Since foreign policy is on the back burner for most voters, I'll focus on domestic policy.
Mitt Romney has recently been insisting that the choice in this election is between the Status Quo (Obama) and a Big Change (Romney). Democrats like Paul Krugman might well agree, since they think the choice is either to preserve or to reject the New Deal. I think we can combine these two analyses in a way that avoids the partisan presuppositions of each and provides a helpful framework for deciding how to vote.
There is a sense in which the New Deal is the issue in this election. In response to the Great Depression, Franklin Roosevelt introduced the New Deal as system of governmental activism to achieve social and economic goods. After the Second World War this system gained wide acceptance. Even Republicans like Eisenhower and Nixon initiated programs (the federal highway system, the Environmental Protection Agency) in the spirit of the New Deal.
Beginning in the 1960s, Democrats extended the original New Deal's social commitments to issues of civil and personal rights for women and various minorities. Many Republicans had little sympathy for this "expanded" New Deal. Further, with Ronald Reagan, many Republicans began to oppose not only the expanded New Deal but also the original New Deal's approach of solving social and economic problems through government spending and regulation. The striking success of the Tea Party in the 2010 Congressional elections established this opposition as Republican orthodoxy.
Many Democrats see the current Republican Party as committed to "dismantling" the New Deal. Logically, however, Republicans can claim that their program does not renounce the New Deal's goals of prosperity, security and even equal rights for all citizens. Rather, they can contend, they intend to achieve these goals in a fundamentally different way: through the private sphere rather than government action. Democrats may well argue that this new approach won't work, so that the practical effect will simply be to abandon the New Deal. But whether this is so is an empirical question on which a logical analysis of our political choices must remain neutral.
We can, therefore, following Romney, see this election as a choice between the status quo and fundamental change. But the status quo is not, as Romney suggests, merely the policies of the Obama administration. A vote for Obama endorses what has been the governing structure of our society since the New Deal: a free-market system balanced with government regulations, tax-funded social programs and legislative and judicial guarantees of civil rights - all to protect citizens from the excesses of the private sphere.
The current Republican Party is committed to replacing this structure with one that seriously reduces the role of government. The idea is to rely primarily on the private sphere to regulate itself and to solve social problems through increased production and wealth. Although a President Romney might resist his party's base, there is a good chance that, willingly or not, he would mostly follow the official party commitments. Therefore, a vote for Romney may well be a vote for a major change in the longstanding role of government in our society. This is the new American revolution urged by the Tea Party.
Thinking in terms of the above framework reverses the standard polarity of the two parties. Those who are conservative in the traditional sense of resisting abrupt major changes in established institutions should vote for Obama. Those who support a fundamental change should vote for Romney. Oddly enough, Obama's hopes for a second term may turn on the support of conservative voters.
 Gary Gutting is a professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame and an editor of Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews. He is the author of, most recently, "Thinking the Impossible: French Philosophy Since 1960," and writes regularly for The Stone.

        
Reconsidering Obama the Pragmatist
        
Stone Links: On Capital-T Theory, Coetzee and More
        
Can Neuroscience Challenge Roe V. Wade?
        
Stone Links: Beauty in Our Time
        
Sleight of the 'Invisible Hand'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICS (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (60%); WORLD WAR II (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Elections 2012; Philosophy; New Deal (1930's); Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; The Stone

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012



1311 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 229 words

HEADLINE: Video: Romney In His Own Words

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: An excerpt of a recent stump speech by Mitt Romney shows the pivot his campaign has taken in the final weeks leading up to Election Day. 

 BODY:
 From a speech Wednesday at a campaign rally in Tampa, Fla.: 
My view is pretty straight forward and that is, I believe that this is time for America to take a different course, that this should be a turning point for our country. And I say that because I look at where we are and with 23 million Americans - you think about that, these are real people, these are folks trying to put food on the table - twenty-three million people struggling to find a good job. This is something that requires in my view a different path than we've been on. Likewise, we have half our kids coming out of college who can't find work. This hasn't happened before in our history. We're at a 30-year low in new business formations. This is a real challenge for a nation that normally grows through innovation and risk-taking and start-ups of all kinds. 
We also have one out of six people living in poverty. We need to take a new course. We have 47 million people on food stamps. Think of that - richest country in the history of the earth, largest economy in the world, and yet 47 million people need food stamps? So I believe that this is the year for us to take a different course. I will bring real change and real reform and a presidency that brings us together. Now, I don't just talk about change; I actually have a plan to execute change and to make it happen.
Go back to related article »

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POOR POPULATION (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%) The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2012



1312 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Obama vs. Hoover

BYLINE: ROBERT S. MCELVAINE


HIGHLIGHT: Let's compare the record on unemployment, G.D.P. and the stock market of the two presidents who faced the worst economic collapses in the last hundred years. 

 BODY:
The question Americans should be asking ourselves isn't whether we're better off than we were four years ago. It's whether we're better off than we were 80 years ago.
Unemployment falling below 8 percent in September was certainly good news for the president politically, but it has not stopped his opponents from charging that the recovery under Obama has been slower and weaker than that following any other modern recession. As Mitt Romney likes to say, "This is not what a real recovery looks like."
He's not alone. Karl Rove's Crossroads GPS put out an ad that begins with Scott Pelley of CBS News saying, "This is the worst economic recovery America has ever had." It goes on to charge that this is the result "of President Obama's failed stimulus policies."
The performance of Barack Obama has been measured against those of many previous presidents, including Franklin D. Roosevelt, Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush.
But the most appropriate presidential term to use as a benchmark is Herbert Hoover's. He was the last president to face an economic crisis on a scale similar to the one that confronted Obama when he took office.
I have been studying the Great Depression for the better part of four decades. A comparison of these two presidencies is both clarifying and highly favorable to Barack Obama. Mitt Romney himself has drawn attention to the implicit parallel between the crises faced by Hoover and Obama. "This is the slowest job recovery since Hoover," Romney declared in June 2011. He did not, of course, intend the association to be a positive one for the current president. Obama has returned the favor. In the final debate, he told Romney that "when it comes to our foreign policy, you seem to want to import the foreign policies of the 1980s, just like the social policies of the 1950s and the economic policies of the 1920s."
While everyone knows that the economic collapse that began in 2008 was a major disaster, most people have come to believe that it was not as dangerous as the one that began in 1929, the year after Hoover was elected president. Part of the reason for this impression is simply linguistic: the current situation has come to be called the Great Recession, which does not sound as bad as the Great Depression. More important, we now have a social safety net that somewhat eases the impact. And as the figures below will confirm, the truth is that our very bad situation today is not nearly as bad as things were eight decades ago, when Hoover was seeking re-election.
But it does not necessarily follow from the comparatively better situation today that the 2008 collapse was that much less severe than 1929's. In fact, by many measures, what began four years ago this fall was even worse than what started in the fall of 1929. World industrial production, world trade and worldwide equity prices all fell more sharply in 2008-9 than they did in 1929-30. The prospect of a second Great Depression was very real when Barack Obama took office.
The genuine similarity of the situations they faced is the reason why the economic record under Hoover is the most meaningful gauge by which to measure the effectiveness of Obama's recovery policies.
And, contrary to the charges made by his political opponents, the main reason that the Panic of 2008 became the Great Recession instead of the Second Great Depression is that the policies that have been employed by the Obama administration to combat it have been so much better than those undertaken by the Hoover administration in 1929. One major reason why the recovery has been so slow is that, thanks in no small part to Obama's allegedly "failed stimulus policies," the recession officially ended a scant nine months after the 2008 crash. In contrast, the economy was still in its deepening downward spiral more than three years after the 1929 crash. This difference means that the clock on recovery was started at much earlier point for Obama.
Timing is critical to public perception. The fact that Barack Obama took office only four months after an economic collapse has made it possible for his opponents to convince many voters that it is his policies, not those of his predecessor that are at fault. When Herbert Hoover sought re-election in 1932, he had been overseeing an economy in free fall for three years, and voters had no confusion about whom they should blame.
Let's compare the records in the most important statistical categories of the two presidents who faced the worst economic collapses in the last hundred years.
 Unemployment 
The government did not collect employment data during the Hoover years, but the best estimate indicates that unemployment soared from 3.1 percent when he took office. (Since the 1929 depression did not begin until seven months after Hoover took office, the comparison with the record under Obama is not exact, but the very different trajectory is clear.)
Under Obama, unemployment continued to rise in the early months of his administration, clearly the result of the near-depression that he inherited, peaking at 10.0 percent in October 2009. The improvement since then has been painfully slow, but it has moved in the right direction, reaching 7.8 percent - a record vastly better than that in the last similar collapse.
 G.D.P. 
G.D.P. plummeted by more than 25 percent under Hoover; it has increased by almost 7 percent under Obama.
 Stock Market 
Share prices had their worst losses in history under President Hoover, losing four-fifths of their value during his term. Under President Obama, the stock market has had the second largest average annual gain experienced under any president (the best was under that other raise-taxes-a-bit-on-the-wealthy president, Bill Clinton), so far increasing its value by almost two-thirds.
These comparisons are particularly relevant in the current election year because today's Republicans are ideologues, as Hoover was, although their faith in the market and "trickle-down economics" is far more absolute than his was. It is an ideology that has failed disastrously twice before, in 1929 and 2008, yet Republicans propose to try it again.
 Robert S. McElvaine is a historian at Millsaps College. His most recent book is a 25th anniversary edition of "The Great Depression: America, 1929-1941." He is currently completing a book manuscript, "Oh, Freedom! - The Young Sixties." 

        
Liberty to Lie
        
Billionaires Going Rogue
        
Google's Crystal Ball
        
Obama's Narrow Victory
        
Premature Desperation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) 1932; 2012; Barack Obama; Great Depression; Great Recession; herbert hoover; Mitt Romney; presidential election of 2012; Hoover, Herbert Clark; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Great Depression (1930's); Presidential Election of 2012; Recession and Depression

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); KARL ROVE (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Hoover, Herbert Clark; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2012



1313 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Prepares to Open

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Wall Street is coming back online after Hurricane Sandy shut it down for two days. | Walt Disney's deal for Lucasfilm follows its strategy of buying big-name franchises. | Barclays disclosed two new investigations on Wednesday. | It has been a year since MF Global collapsed in bankruptcy. 

 BODY:
 WALL STREET PREPARES TO OPEN | The New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq and other trading platforms are set to open on Wednesday, after Hurricane Sandy forced markets to shut down for two days. Wall Street is coming back online even in the face of lingering concerns. Large swaths of the financial district in Manhattan remain underwater or without power.
 In the aftermath of the storm, "Wall Street faces a critical test," Susanne Craig and Ben Protess write in DealBook: "If the exchanges open before they are truly ready, the markets might be vulnerable to complications that could ripple through the financial system."
But Wall Street also wants to show it can "operate in difficult conditions." The New York Stock Exchange spent much of Tuesday conducting trials. Earlier, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, stranded in California, held a phone conference with bank regulators to discuss potential difficulties. "Right now there are a lot of connectivity problems," said Lawrence E. Leibowitz, the chief operating officer of NYSE Euronext.
The banks are making backup plans, too. "We're working on contingency plans right now on how to move people logistically are around the city," the president of Goldman Sachs, Gary D. Cohn, told Bloomberg TV on Tuesday. Goldman plans to open its headquarters on Wednesday, the firm said in a memorandum to staff members. JPMorgan Chase is reopening its Park Avenue headquarters in addition to at least 100 hub bank branches, but Frank J. Bisignano, the bank's co-chief operating officer, said, "Power in New York City will be a challenge," Nelson D. Schwartz reports in The New York Times.
DISNEY'S NEW TOY | 
The Walt Disney Company is paying $4.05 billion to acquire Lucasfilm, giving it control of the Star Wars franchise. The cash-and-stock deal, which ranks among Disney's largest, follows the company's usual strategy of taking over big-name franchises with the hope they will pay off down the road, DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced writes. George Lucas, who is described as Lucasfilm's "sole shareholder," could see his wealth rise immensely. The Media Decoder blog writes that the deal "strengthens the legacy" of Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, who is known for aggressively expanding the company. Disney plans to release a new Star Wars movie in 2015.
FRESH LEGAL WOES FOR BARCLAYS | Barclays is feeling the heat, again. On Wednesday, it disclosed two new investigations. American regulators are looking into whether the bank violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in its capital-raising efforts during the financial crisis, following similar inquiries by British counterparts. The United States government is also looking into the past energy trading activities of Barclays.
As if that were not enough, Barclays also reported a third-quarter loss of £106 million ($170 million). That compares with a profit of £1.4 billion in the period a year earlier. "The last three months have been difficult for Barclays," said Antony P. Jenkins, who took over as the bank's chief executive in July during a rate-rigging scandal.
ON THE AGENDA | It has been one year since MF Global collapsed in bankruptcy. Regulators moved forward this month with an effort to prevent a similar failure from happening in the future.
 Hank Greenberg, A.I.G.'s former leader, is on Bloomberg TV at 8 a.m. The chairman of the CME Group, Terrence Duffy, is on Bloomberg TV at 10 a.m. Morgan Stanley's chief United State equity strategist, Adam Parker, is on CNBC at 2 p.m. General Motors and McGraw-Hill Companies report earnings before the market opens, and Caesars Entertainment and MetLife are scheduled to announce results Wednesday evening.
TAPPING THE 401(K) | The latest trend seems to be using retirement funds, like I.R.A.'s and 401(k)'s, to finance risky ventures, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. While these strategies have tax advantages, they also raise concerns. Mr. Davidoff writes: "The fact that all of this activity is for anything but retirement is a case study in how legitimate tax policies can be distorted and rules bent to benefit the inventive. More sadly, though, is that a whole industry growing around these investments also shows how some Americans are willing to risk anything for a big jackpot in the markets."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
PVH to Buy Warnaco Group for $2.9 Billion | The fashion company PVH Corporation agreed on Wednesday to acquire the Warnaco Group in a $2.9 billion deal, bringing various Calvin Klein brands under one corporate umbrella. DealBook »
Europe Extends Deadline for Reviewing Glencore-Xstrata Deal | The European Commission extended the deadline to Nov. 22 for reviewing the merger of Glencore International and Xstrata after Glencore agreed to certain concessions, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Consolidated Media Shareholders Back News Corp. Offer | News Corporation, run by Rupert Murdoch, is set to take over Consolidated Media Holdings after shareholders of the Australian company voted in favor of a $2.1 billion offer, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Allergan Looks to Sell Lap-Band Unit | The chief executive of Allergan said the company had hired an investment bank to advise on a sale of its Lap-Band weight-loss business, and was sending letters to potential buyers, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Softbank Plans $8.8 Billion of Capital Expenditures | 
REUTERS
Australian Magnate Steps Up Campaign Against Whitehaven Coal | The mining magnate Nathan Tinkler wrote an open letter to shareholders of Whitehaven Coal, "declaring open war on the firm in which he is the top shareholder and adding to speculation over his motives," Reuters writes. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
UBS Said to Lay Off Traders in Asia | The Swiss bank UBS has begun to eliminate jobs, laying off "between 50 and 60 traders in the past couple of days in Tokyo, Singapore and Hong Kong, a person familiar with the bank said," according to The Wall Street Journal. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Retrenching by UBS Could Benefit Rivals | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Spanish Bank Reports 82% Drop in Profit | The Spanish lender Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria said third-quarter profit fell as it continued to account for real estate losses. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Berkshire Hathaway Forms Venture With Brookfield | Berkshire Hathaway and Warren E. Buffett are teaming up with Brookfield Asset Management to manage a network of residential real estate affiliates, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Best Buy Cancels Analyst Meeting | Best Buy, which is awaiting a potential buyout bid from its founder, Richard Schulze, canceled a meeting with analysts because of the storm. The company had planned to outline its turnaround strategy. REUTERS
Advent Wins Bidding War for Polish Retailer | Advent International is taking a 98 percent stake in EKO Holding, after sparring with a rival private equity firm, Mid Europa Partners, Reuters reports. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Fund Run by Endowment Chief Limits Withdrawals | A $3.3 billion fund run by the former chief of the endowment for the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill told investors on Friday that it was limiting the amount they could take out each quarter, after years of disappointing returns, Julie Creswell reports in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Investors Sue Green Mountain Coffee | Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, which was criticized by the hedge fund manager David Einhorn last year, is now being sued by investors who claim it misled them about demand for products, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Some I.P.O.'s Remain on the Calendar This Week | Hurricane Sandy forced markets to close, but the planned $119 million I.P.O. of Restoration Hardware is now set for later this week, as are at least two others, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Property Firm Plans an I.P.O. in Thailand | Ananda Development is looking to raise up to $250 million through a listing in Thailand, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Flooding Takes Web Sites Offline | The hurricane knocked out The Huffington Post and Gawker sites, showing the "vulnerabilities from the sometimes ad hoc organization of computer networks," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
EMC Acquires Antifraud Start-Up | The data storage company EMC paid an undisclosed price for Silver Tail, a start-up whose backers include Andreessen Horowitz and Citi Ventures, the Bits blog reports. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Lawyer Withdraws From Case by Man Claiming Facebook Ownership | The lawyer representing a man claiming to own a substantial stake in Facebook withdrew from the case on Tuesday, just a day after he defended his client in an interview. DealBook »
Hong Kong Named World's Top Financial Center | The World Economic Forum praised Hong Kong's tax regime and overall business environment, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); BANK BRANCHES (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); COMPANY LOSSES (63%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (62%); CORRUPTION (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BARCLAYS PLC (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (83%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BCS (NYSE) (85%); BARC (LSE) (85%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (83%); NYX (PAR) (58%); NYX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%); ROBERT A IGER (51%); GEORGE LUCAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1314 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1526 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Prepares to Open

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Wall Street is coming back online after Hurricane Sandy shut it down for two days. | Walt Disney's deal for Lucasfilm follows its strategy of buying big-name franchises. | Barclays disclosed two new investigations on Wednesday. | It has been a year since MF Global collapsed in bankruptcy. 

 BODY:
 WALL STREET PREPARES TO OPEN | The New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq and other trading platforms are set to open on Wednesday, after Hurricane Sandy forced markets to shut down for two days. Wall Street is coming back online even in the face of lingering concerns. Large swaths of the financial district in Manhattan remain underwater or without power.
 In the aftermath of the storm, "Wall Street faces a critical test," Susanne Craig and Ben Protess write in DealBook: "If the exchanges open before they are truly ready, the markets might be vulnerable to complications that could ripple through the financial system."
But Wall Street also wants to show it can "operate in difficult conditions." The New York Stock Exchange spent much of Tuesday conducting trials. Earlier, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, stranded in California, held a phone conference with bank regulators to discuss potential difficulties. "Right now there are a lot of connectivity problems," said Lawrence E. Leibowitz, the chief operating officer of NYSE Euronext.
The banks are making backup plans, too. "We're working on contingency plans right now on how to move people logistically are around the city," the president of Goldman Sachs, Gary D. Cohn, told Bloomberg TV on Tuesday. Goldman plans to open its headquarters on Wednesday, the firm said in a memorandum to staff members. JPMorgan Chase is reopening its Park Avenue headquarters in addition to at least 100 hub bank branches, but Frank J. Bisignano, the bank's co-chief operating officer, said, "Power in New York City will be a challenge," Nelson D. Schwartz reports in The New York Times.
DISNEY'S NEW TOY | 
The Walt Disney Company is paying $4.05 billion to acquire Lucasfilm, giving it control of the Star Wars franchise. The cash-and-stock deal, which ranks among Disney's largest, follows the company's usual strategy of taking over big-name franchises with the hope they will pay off down the road, DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced writes. George Lucas, who is described as Lucasfilm's "sole shareholder," could see his wealth rise immensely. The Media Decoder blog writes that the deal "strengthens the legacy" of Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, who is known for aggressively expanding the company. Disney plans to release a new Star Wars movie in 2015.
FRESH LEGAL WOES FOR BARCLAYS | Barclays is feeling the heat, again. On Wednesday, it disclosed two new investigations. American regulators are looking into whether the bank violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in its capital-raising efforts during the financial crisis, following similar inquiries by British counterparts. The United States government is also looking into the past energy trading activities of Barclays.
As if that were not enough, Barclays also reported a third-quarter loss of £106 million ($170 million). That compares with a profit of £1.4 billion in the period a year earlier. "The last three months have been difficult for Barclays," said Antony P. Jenkins, who took over as the bank's chief executive in July during a rate-rigging scandal.
ON THE AGENDA | It has been one year since MF Global collapsed in bankruptcy. Regulators moved forward this month with an effort to prevent a similar failure from happening in the future.
 Hank Greenberg, A.I.G.'s former leader, is on Bloomberg TV at 8 a.m. The chairman of the CME Group, Terrence Duffy, is on Bloomberg TV at 10 a.m. Morgan Stanley's chief United State equity strategist, Adam Parker, is on CNBC at 2 p.m. General Motors and McGraw-Hill Companies report earnings before the market opens, and Caesars Entertainment and MetLife are scheduled to announce results Wednesday evening.
TAPPING THE 401(K) | The latest trend seems to be using retirement funds, like I.R.A.'s and 401(k)'s, to finance risky ventures, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. While these strategies have tax advantages, they also raise concerns. Mr. Davidoff writes: "The fact that all of this activity is for anything but retirement is a case study in how legitimate tax policies can be distorted and rules bent to benefit the inventive. More sadly, though, is that a whole industry growing around these investments also shows how some Americans are willing to risk anything for a big jackpot in the markets."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
PVH to Buy Warnaco Group for $2.9 Billion | The fashion company PVH Corporation agreed on Wednesday to acquire the Warnaco Group in a $2.9 billion deal, bringing various Calvin Klein brands under one corporate umbrella. DealBook »
Europe Extends Deadline for Reviewing Glencore-Xstrata Deal | The European Commission extended the deadline to Nov. 22 for reviewing the merger of Glencore International and Xstrata after Glencore agreed to certain concessions, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Consolidated Media Shareholders Back News Corp. Offer | News Corporation, run by Rupert Murdoch, is set to take over Consolidated Media Holdings after shareholders of the Australian company voted in favor of a $2.1 billion offer, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Allergan Looks to Sell Lap-Band Unit | The chief executive of Allergan said the company had hired an investment bank to advise on a sale of its Lap-Band weight-loss business, and was sending letters to potential buyers, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Softbank Plans $8.8 Billion of Capital Expenditures | 
REUTERS
Australian Magnate Steps Up Campaign Against Whitehaven Coal | The mining magnate Nathan Tinkler wrote an open letter to shareholders of Whitehaven Coal, "declaring open war on the firm in which he is the top shareholder and adding to speculation over his motives," Reuters writes. REUTERS
INVESTMENT BANKING »
UBS Said to Lay Off Traders in Asia | The Swiss bank UBS has begun to eliminate jobs, laying off "between 50 and 60 traders in the past couple of days in Tokyo, Singapore and Hong Kong, a person familiar with the bank said," according to The Wall Street Journal. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Retrenching by UBS Could Benefit Rivals | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Spanish Bank Reports 82% Drop in Profit | The Spanish lender Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria said third-quarter profit fell as it continued to account for real estate losses. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Berkshire Hathaway Forms Venture With Brookfield | Berkshire Hathaway and Warren E. Buffett are teaming up with Brookfield Asset Management to manage a network of residential real estate affiliates, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Best Buy Cancels Analyst Meeting | Best Buy, which is awaiting a potential buyout bid from its founder, Richard Schulze, canceled a meeting with analysts because of the storm. The company had planned to outline its turnaround strategy. REUTERS
Advent Wins Bidding War for Polish Retailer | Advent International is taking a 98 percent stake in EKO Holding, after sparring with a rival private equity firm, Mid Europa Partners, Reuters reports. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Fund Run by Endowment Chief Limits Withdrawals | A $3.3 billion fund run by the former chief of the endowment for the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill told investors on Friday that it was limiting the amount they could take out each quarter, after years of disappointing returns, Julie Creswell reports in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Investors Sue Green Mountain Coffee | Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, which was criticized by the hedge fund manager David Einhorn last year, is now being sued by investors who claim it misled them about demand for products, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Some I.P.O.'s Remain on the Calendar This Week | Hurricane Sandy forced markets to close, but the planned $119 million I.P.O. of Restoration Hardware is now set for later this week, as are at least two others, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Property Firm Plans an I.P.O. in Thailand | Ananda Development is looking to raise up to $250 million through a listing in Thailand, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Flooding Takes Web Sites Offline | The hurricane knocked out The Huffington Post and Gawker sites, showing the "vulnerabilities from the sometimes ad hoc organization of computer networks," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
EMC Acquires Antifraud Start-Up | The data storage company EMC paid an undisclosed price for Silver Tail, a start-up whose backers include Andreessen Horowitz and Citi Ventures, the Bits blog reports. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Lawyer Withdraws From Case by Man Claiming Facebook Ownership | The lawyer representing a man claiming to own a substantial stake in Facebook withdrew from the case on Tuesday, just a day after he defended his client in an interview. DealBook »
Hong Kong Named World's Top Financial Center | The World Economic Forum praised Hong Kong's tax regime and overall business environment, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); BANK BRANCHES (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); COMPANY LOSSES (63%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (62%); CORRUPTION (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BARCLAYS PLC (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (83%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BCS (NYSE) (85%); BARC (LSE) (85%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (83%); NYX (PAR) (58%); NYX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%); ROBERT A IGER (51%); GEORGE LUCAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012



1315 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: After Bailout, Giants Dominate the Mortgage Business

BYLINE: JESSE EISINGER


HIGHLIGHT: Wells Fargo and JPMorgan were allowed to gobble up small and weak competitors in the mortgage business, and now their biggest threats, Citigroup and Bank of America, are pulling out. 

 BODY:
Mortgage rates are so low that it may seem like a great time to get a mortgage. For banks, however, it probably is the greatest time ever.
The profit margin on the rates that they can charge customers and the price they can earn for selling those mortgages to investors is at a record. This is measured as the "spread," or difference, between mortgage securities yields and mortgage rates.
Given that housing prices are beaten up and borrowers must put down bigger cushions than in recent years, it is "the most profitable, safest time ever to be a mortgage bank," says Scott Simon, who is the head of mortgage investing at Pimco.
 In the old days, there used to be a word for this kind of thing: price gouging.
And who is doing the gouging? Mainly, Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase. In the third quarter, reported in the last several weeks, both banks earned robust profits from the mortgage business.
The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, William C. Dudley, vented this frustration in a recent speech, blaming the concentration of mortgage-making power at a few big banks.
Mr. Dudley is right. But what he didn't say was that his own institution (the Fed), his former boss (Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner) and the Bush and Obama administrations delivered us this mess.
The broken mortgage market is the unintended consequence of the flawed banking bailout and the flaccid regulatory response in the aftermath of the financial crisis.
The government and the regulators have had two broad approaches to banking oversight during the crisis and its aftermath. First, regulators coddled the troubled big banks. The two weak behemoths, Citigroup and Bank of America, were granted time to work off their bad loans. Regulators practiced forbearance, overlooking the self-inflicted debacles - mostly housing related - on their balance sheets.
Regulators, meanwhile, encouraged the healthy giants to get even bigger by gobbling up the small and weak. So Wells Fargo bought Wachovia, and JPMorgan snapped up Washington Mutual.
It would be foolish to blame Wells Fargo and JPMorgan for this situation. Restaurants with 100 customers waiting in line outside the door wouldn't, and shouldn't, be expected to lower their prices; why should banks?
Yet allowing takeovers without forcing weak competitors to get healthy quickly leads to an oligopoly. Exhibit A: Wells Fargo and JPMorgan dominate the mortgage business. They should face some competition. Instead, their biggest threats, Citigroup and Bank of America, are, astonishingly, pulling out.
Citigroup and Bank of America appear to have made a profound mistake. It's one of the many strategic errors that ultimately got Vikram S. Pandit ousted as Citi's chief executive. Mr. Pandit viewed mortgages as a "noncore" business for Citigroup. Whoops.
But it's not a surprising one. These are traumatized institutions, limping along, preoccupied by the past and unable to look forward, says Sheila Bair, the former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and author of the new crisis account, "Bull by the Horns." She rightly calls it "another downside of the bailouts. We simply propped up weak institutions instead of making them restructure."
The odd twist is that the Federal Reserve is a victim here, too. Despite its move to buy mortgage-backed securities in its latest round of extraordinary measures to lower interest rates, it can nudge them only so far because of the dysfunctional, noncompetitive market.
Regulators could have broken up Citigroup and Bank of America, spinning off their mortgage operations into well-capitalized, nimble competitors. Perhaps they could have forced those banks to take big write-downs on their mortgage assets, settled their lawsuits and moved on, putting the past where it belongs.
Bankers, of course, don't like this analysis. It's common for them and others to argue that what's really ailing the mortgage market are delays in putting new Dodd-Frank mortgage rules in place, like the ones that define the standards for mortgages that can be bundled into securities.
And, yes, that is probably hindering new competition from entering the market, though it certainly can't fully, or even mostly, explain Citigroup and Bank of America abandoning the field. And, of course, the banks themselves bear much of the blame because they went all out to obstruct the rollout of new regulations. But, ultimately, the Dodd Frank delay is yet another example of how the government's inefficient postcrisis process has hurt the marketplace.
There has been plenty of talk about how the government saved the financial system after the crisis. And it did. Now the question is: Is this what we saved it for?

        
Reading the Fine Print in Abacus and Other Soured Deals
        
U.S. Accuses Bank of America of a 'Brazen' Mortgage Fraud

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (96%); MORTGAGE LOANS (93%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (79%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (79%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); CARTELS (76%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (74%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CONSUMER LAW (64%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Bank of America Corporation; Citigroup Inc; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); JPMorgan Chase & Company; Mortgages; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Wells Fargo & Company; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Wells Fargo & Company|WFC|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; The Trade

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (96%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (84%) Bank of America Corporation; Citigroup Inc; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Wells Fargo & Company

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (96%); JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; Wells Fargo & Company; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (52%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (51%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); VIKRAM PANDIT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012



1316 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: New York Stock Exchange Reopens Smoothly, Reassuring Investors

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Investors apprehensive about the reopening of the New York Stock Exchange after Hurricane Sandy were pleasantly surprised at the resilience of American markets. 

 BODY:
 9:00 p.m. | Updated 
Judging by the day's closing stock index numbers, Wednesday seemed boring for the markets. The Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite index both fell less than 1 percent.
But by a more important measure - that they were up and running at all, with few visible glitches - it was a hugely significant day.
All the major American stock markets opened for trading on Wednesday, after Hurricane Sandy and its aftereffects led to a two-day shutdown.
Global investors were eager to see how the United States indexes would react after two days without trading. With power failures, destruction and disruptions still gripping much of the Northeast, the reopening of the New York Stock Exchange served as a small sign of reassurance and resilience.
 For the 9:30 a.m. opening bell, a bevy of television news crews and camera-toting tourists thronged the exchange. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York was on hand to ring the bell, flanked by NYSE Euronext's chief executive, Duncan L. Niederauer, and a deputy mayor, Robert K. Steel. When the mayor pressed the button, a small cheer broke out from the floor.
The dozen or so staff members at the ramp, an important nerve center on the floor of the exchange, scanned a wall of monitors to check on market activity but they showed a relatively normal amount of activity.
As far as the investor reaction to the shutdown, panic did not seem to sweep the markets. The Dow ended the day down 10.75 points, or 0.08 percent, at 13,096.46. The Nasdaq closed down 10.72 points, or 0.36 percent, at 2,977.23. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, meanwhile, ended fractionally higher, closing at 1.412.16, up 0.02 percent.
As may have been expected, shares of insurers were down. The Travelers Companies, for instance, whose stock had been trending down for several days, closed down 0.87 percent to $70.94.
Prices of Treasuries, which investors normally buy in a flight to safety, were stable. The price on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 8/32, pushing its yield down to 1.69 percent.
Trading volume was average, with about 6.3 billion shares exchanging hands. The daily average for 2012 through last Friday was 6.51 billion shares, according to Thomson Reuters.
The relatively flat close of the markets was an improvement on opening days after previous unplanned market closings. The S.& P. 500 fell 4.9 percent after markets reopened after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, according to Standard & Poor's Capital IQ. However, it rose 0.79 of a point the day after the Big Board closed because of Hurricane Gloria in 1985, the last market closing because of weather.
Investors will now most likely focus on macroeconomic factors like the economy. Some delayed government economic reports are due to be released later this week. And on Friday, the monthly unemployment data will be out, which may sway voters during the presidential election. In an indication that the economy could be losing some of its steam, the Dow was down 2.5 percent for the month of October, while the Nasdaq was off 4.5 percent and the S.& P. was down 2 percent.
For their part, exchange officials were pleased with the trading on Wednesday. Lawrence E. Leibowitz, NYSE Euronext's chief operating officer, wandered about the floor, checking on operations.
"There have been very few, very isolated problems," Mr. Leibowitz said. He pointed to blank monitors that were shut off because the data provider, Thomson Reuters, was delivering incorrect market data.
"If that's the worst of our problems," he added, "we're in good shape."
The specialists who handle market orders for the Big Board were back as well, darting about the trading pits in their usual colored jackets. Many gathered outside - not to smoke, but to try to grab a cellphone signal that was impossible to find inside. But getting to the relative calm of Wednesday's open took significant work. For days, exchange officials traded lengthy conference calls with trading firms, regulators, and city and state officials about how best to resume trading in the nation's financial heart.
Originally, the officials had planned to open the electronic exchange but not the trading floor on Monday, after having consulted with regulators, city officials and other exchanges. But, Mr. Niederauer said, the trading industry quickly asked for a full trading halt, citing the potential danger to employees called into work.
Still, preparations were well under way days before the storm hit. The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, Wall Street's main trade group, ran multiple calls throughout the weekend to coordinate plans for reopening the markets. An executive of the group was stationed at the city's command center in Brooklyn, along with Bloomberg administration officials.
The group dispatched emergency fuel to firms in Jersey City that needed to jump-start their generators on Tuesday night in preparation for trading on Wednesday.
Staffing was a concern for Big Board officials, too. The exchange dispatched 20 cars on Tuesday to bring in critical personnel before the opening. Others, like Mr. Niederauer, dialed in remotely but went in Wednesday morning at 5:15 a.m.
Jonathan D. Corpina, a senior managing partner at Meridian Equity Partners, came armed with a flashlight to navigate the darkened streets of Lower Manhattan. But he found it easy to find the exchange, which was illuminated by power from backup generators.
"We're here filling orders, and it's business as usual," he said.
Some hiccups emerged, however. One issue was the reliability of member firms' data connections, something that had been tested repeatedly Monday and Tuesday. At about 8 a.m. on Wednesday, Mary L. Schapiro, the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, held a call with exchange officials to discuss potential problems with Verizon's network.
Ultimately, both sides concluded that the problems were not severe enough to delay trading.
"The connectivity testing gave us comfort," Mr. Niederauer said. "There was always concern that it may not work." Verizon technicians were on hand to patch spotty communications and network connections, while many trading firms resorted to sharing working Internet and phone lines.
The day ended with relatively little pomp. To recognize their work during Hurricane Sandy, Mr. Niederauer asked members of the exchange's facilities and security teams to ring the closing bell.

Susanne Craig and Ben Protess contributed reporting. 
Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article had the incorrect price of the 10-year Treasury note. The price rose, not fell, 8/32 on Wednesday.

        
Bracing for Storm, U.S. Stock Markets to Close
        
After Hurricane Sandy, Stock Exchanges Prepare to Open

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (96%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); INSURANCE (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); POWER FAILURES (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); TERRORISM (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); EXECUTIVES (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Hurricane Sandy (2012); Manhattan (NYC); New York Stock Exchange; Niederauer, Duncan L; NYSE Euronext; Stocks and Bonds; Verizon Communications Inc; NYSE Euronext|NYX|NYSE; Verizon Communications Inc|VZ|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: TRAVELERS COS INC (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Stock Exchange; NYSE Euronext; Verizon Communications Inc

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (64%); NYX (PAR) (55%); NYX (NYSE) (55%) NYSE Euronext; NYX; NYSE; NYSE Euronext; NYX; NYSE; Verizon Communications Inc; VZ; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (64%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (86%); DUNCAN L NIEDERAUER (85%) Bloomberg, Michael R; Niederauer, Duncan L

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012



1317 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: A Year After MF Global's Collapse, Brokerage Firms Feel Less Pressure for Change

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The MF Global bankruptcy prompted federal authorities to immediately bear down on the brokerage firm and the broader futures trading industry. 

 BODY:
When MF Global toppled a year ago, chaos engulfed a Chicago trading floor. Customers were locked out of their accounts, later discovering that about $1 billion of their money had disappeared.
The debacle, which played out on the evening of Halloween, prompted federal authorities to immediately bear down on the brokerage firm and the broader futures trading industry.
But a year after a federal grand jury issued subpoenas and regulators vowed reforms, the largest bankruptcy since the financial crisis has begun to fade from Wall Street's memory.
Federal authorities have all but cleared MF Global's top executives of criminal wrongdoing, people briefed on the matter say. The government has yet to usher in a wider overhaul of futures trading rules, save for certain piecemeal policy changes. And the profit-making exchanges that rely on brokerage firms for business still police the futures industry, presenting potential conflicts of interest.
The slowing momentum for change has provided relief for the brokerage firms that dominate the futures trading industry. The Chicago companies, which largely dodged the humbling losses that scarred Wall Street in 2008, continue to cast MF Global as a fleeting distraction rather than a permanent black eye for their business.
"We haven't seen a dramatic change," said Terrence A. Duffy, executive chairman of the CME Group, the giant exchange that oversaw MF Global.
But the aftermath, Mr. Duffy noted, has left some customers wary.
Farmers and ranchers traded futures contracts through MF Global to protect themselves from the price swings of their crops. While the clients have received 82 percent of their missing money, they are still owed millions of dollars.
With the prospect of a full recovery unlikely, some traders are sitting on the sidelines. Others who continue to trade are seeking added assurances that the brokerages will follow the law.
"Every conversation with clients is about safety and sanctity of customer funds," said Mike O'Callaghan, a managing director of business development at Knight Capital's futures business.
Futures customers - and the integrity of the industry - were dealt a further blow this summer when another firm collapsed after misusing customer money. The chief executive of the firm, the Peregrine Financial Group, attempted suicide before eventually pleading guilty to carrying out a nearly 20-year scheme to raid customers' accounts.
The problems have taken their toll on customer confidence.
"The general tenor is fear," said James L. Koutoulas, chief executive of Typhon Capital Management, a hedge fund client of MF Global and the head of the Commodities Customer Coalition, a group of customers fighting for the return of their missing money.
Mr. Koutoulas and other customers are eager for a reckoning. They have questioned why authorities have not taken a harder line with Jon S. Corzine, the former chief executive of MF Global. Criminal investigators have largely concluded that chaos and porous risk controls at the firm, rather than fraud, led to the disappearance of the money.
"You can't raid customer accounts and get a slap on the wrists," Mr. Duffy said. "There needs to be stiffer penalties."
MF Global executives might still face legal repercussions. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the industry's federal regulator, could level an enforcement action against Mr. Corzine, even though such an action would be weeks or months away.
"It must be frustrating to people not to have a final outcome for what may appear to be malfeasance," said Bart Chilton, a commissioner at the agency. "But investigations take time and we need to ensure that we've done a thorough review."
As authorities continue to build a regulatory case, a Congressional investigation into MF Global's collapse is drawing to a close. The chairman of the House Financial Services Committee's oversight panel announced Wednesday that he would release an investigative report about MF Global in the next "few weeks." Randy Neugebauer, Republican of Texas, said the report would serve as an "autopsy of how MF Global came to its ultimate demise and what policy changes need to be made to prevent similar customer losses in the future."
MF Global was also a topic of conversation Wednesday at an annual industry conference in Chicago. Futures firms there planned to discuss new ways to protect customer cash and restore confidence in their industry.
A regulatory effort, while incomplete, has generated new measures that aim to protect customer funds.
The CME Group, which has started a $100 million protection fund for farmer and ranchers, has stepped up its surprise audits of brokerage firms. The CME and the National Futures Association, another self-regulatory group, also championed the so-called Corzine rule, which forces top executives to approve any transfer of more than 25 percent of the funds sitting in a customer account. And last week, the trading commission voted unanimously to propose new customer protections aimed at closing loopholes.
For their part, many MF Global employees remain chastened by their firm's collapse. Lawmakers hauled Mr. Corzine, a former senator from New Jersey, to Washington three times to testify before Congressional committees. Some MF Global employees remain unemployed while others took major pay cuts to work for the trustee unwinding the firm's assets.
Several MF Global employees planned to gather on Thursday for drinks at a Midtown Manhattan bar, just blocks from their old firm, to commiserate on their trying year. They canceled the event after another disaster, Hurricane Sandy, left some people stranded without power.

        
One Year After MF Global, New Protections for Customer Money
        
Corker Questions Need for 2 Market Regulators

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUTURES (96%); SECURITIES TRADING (94%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); SUBPOENAS (71%); GRAND JURY (71%); GUILTY PLEAS (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (62%); POLITICS (62%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (52%); SUICIDE (50%) Commodities; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Futures and Options Trading; House of Representatives; MF Global; United States Politics and Government; MF Global|MFGLQ|Other OTC; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%); CME GROUP INC (58%); PEREGRINE FINANCIAL GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission; House of Representatives; MF Global

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%) MF Global; MFGLQ; Other OTC

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (52%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (52%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2012



1318 of 1318 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: October 31, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 16314 words

HEADLINE: Storm Aftermath: Live Updates

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Live updates from the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. 

 BODY:
 Coverage from October 31 and November 1, 2012, of the storm that disrupted power and transportation for millions of people in more than a half-dozen states. 
Much of the eastern edge of the nation continued to deal Wednesday with the aftermath of the storm, with mass transit in the New York metropolitan area still crippled, power still out for millions and the death toll continuing to climb.
In New York City, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced temporary measures to alleviate unusually heavy car traffic, saying that only cars with three passengers or more would be allowed to use the city's main bridges and tunnels. 
The city transit authority said that some service would be restored north of Midtown Manhattan on Thursday. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo declared a transportation emergency and waived all fares on the authority's commuter rails, subways and buses Thursday and Friday.
 Live Updates 
Tracking the storm that has disrupted power and transportation for millions of people in more than a half-dozen states, leaving behind the daunting task of cleaning up.
 1:11 A.M. | The View From Above 
A time-lapse video of images - before, during and after the storm - from the 51st floor of the New York Times building.
- The New York Times 
 11:57 P.M. | In New Jersey, Governor Plans to Restrict Water Usage 
Gov. Chris Christie said Wednesday night that he planned to put in place mandatory restrictions on water usage in New Jersey because power outages had strained the state's water-treatment system.
At a media briefing, Mr. Christie said he would sign an executive order that prohibited the watering of lawns and landscaping as well as the outdoor washing of cars or pavement. He also asked residents to try to conserve.
"Maybe take a little bit of a shorter shower," Mr. Christie suggested.
He also praised President Obama, who traveled to New Jersey on Wednesday to survey storm damage with him. Mr. Christie, who has been a sharp critic of the president, said he had talked to Mr. Obama six times since Sunday.
"The president couldn't have been better today," he said.
Mr. Christie said that he and Mr. Obama were "big boys" and that their political differences had not stopped them from working together to deal with the storm.
Acknowledging that his interactions with Mr. Obama were of political interest, Mr. Christie said, "I'm aware of all the atmospherics. I'm not in a coma. But the fact is, I don't care." He added, "There will be some folks who will criticize me for complimenting him. Well, you know what? I speak the truth. That's what I always do."
Mr. Christie was also asked about climate change, which Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York invoked on Wednesday as he warned that the area would likely see additional extreme storms in the future. Mr. Christie said he did not "have an opinion at the moment on what's causing this stuff."
"The reason I don't have an opinion is because I don't have time to think about it," Mr. Christie said. "My day is consumed by a million different details right now, none of which involve global warming."
- Thomas Kaplan 
 11:17 P.M. | Gasoline Quickly Running Out in Queens 
Commuters slogging back from work through extraordinary amounts of traffic, were met with even more frustration in Queens, where scores of gas stations had closed up shop, their stores of gasoline bone dry.
In the water-deluged Rockaways, power was still out, and gas stations were boarded up from the storm or completely dark.
In Woodhaven, where there was electricity, cars flitted from filling station to station, only to find the pumps at each wrapped with caution tape, or with hand-scrawled signs saying "sorry, no gas."
On Woodhaven Boulevard, one Mobile station had pulled flatbed tow trucks across its entrances, giving a clear message: no gas here.
A few blocks away, on the other side of Woodhaven, another Mobile had a line of about 50 cars that filled up one lane of the boulevard. But at 8:15 p.m., the man directing traffic in the parking lot there said the station had only about 30 more minutes before the fuel lines ran dry.
By 8:30 p.m., a BP station on a Queens Boulevard service road was one of the few stations that still had gas to sell, and the lines were unexpectedly short. Hong Han, the owner, was marshaling customers with the precision of an air traffic controller.
"I'm trying to help them out, I don't need fighting," he said, before turning to scold a driver trying to cut in line. "We try to do our best," he said, estimating that in an hour, his tanks would be empty. "We're getting a little nervous. Everybody is getting a little excited."
David Liu, 23, had driven his delivery van to six gas stations across Queens before finding the BP station. He was harried, but said that, in wandering from gas pump to gas pump that night, he had met others in far worse situations. One man he had commiserated with was filling up a dozen two-gallon canisters. The man said he had come from New Jersey to Queens get gas, Mr. Liu said. Yesterday, the man had made the same run to Pennsylvania.
Mr. Liu said he was worried that by tomorrow all the gas stations would be closed.
His backup plan? "Pray that there is one open."
- Sarah Maslin Nir 
 10:42 | Cuomo Waives M.T.A. Fares for Thursday and Friday 
Gov. Andrew Cuomo declared a transportation emergency Wednesday night and said all fares on the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's commuter trains, subways and buses would be waived on Thursday and Friday.
He said that the goal was to help alleviate the kind traffic that had clogged city streets on Wednesday.
"The gridlock was dangerous, frankly," Mr. Cuomo said.
Joseph Lhota, the chairman of the M.T.A., said that roughly half of the commuters who take Metro-North trains would see regular service starting Thursday morning. The Harlem and the New Haven lines will both be running normal schedules to Grand Central Station, he said.
Mr. Cuomo also said that in response to reports that there were people in high-rise buildings who were running out of food and water, FEMA would begin distributing one million prepackaged meals and one million gallons of water to those in need, starting Thursday morning.
- Marc Santora 
 10:18 P.M. | Bellevue Hospital Evacuated After Backup Power Fails 
Bellevue Hospital Center, New York City's flagship public hospital and the premier trauma center in Manhattan, shut down Wednesday after fuel pumps for its backup power generators failed, and it worked into the night to evacuate the 300 patients left in its darkened building. There were 725 patients there when Hurricane Sandy hit.
At a news conference Wednesday night, Alan Aviles, the president of the Health and Hospitals Corporation, which runs Bellevue, described third-world conditions, with no hot water, no lab or radiology services and pails of water hauled up the stairs to use for flushing toilets.
After pumping out 17 million gallons of water from the basement, the water is still two and a half feet deep in the cavernous basement where the fuel pumps apparently shorted out and became inoperable - unable to feed the 13th-floor backup generators, Mr. Aviles said.
"If we can get this hospital back up within two to three weeks we will be doing really well," he said. "Nothing has happened like this in Bellevue's 275-year history." Read more »
- Nina Bernstein and Anemona Hartocolis 
 10:16 P.M. | Governor Declares Transportation Emergency 
BREAKING from Gov: I am declaring a transportation emergency and authorizing MTA wave fares through the end of the wk #sady
- Andrew Cuomo (@NYGovCuomo) November 1, 2012
 10:05 P.M. | Lower Deductibles for Storm-Tossed Homeowners 
Tens of thousands of homeowners who suffered wind and storm damage this week will get financial relief from rulings by several governors that insurers must treat Sandy as a tropical storm, and not a hurricane. 
Among those to benefit is Dana Spada, a school social worker who watched from the top floor of her apartment building in Long Beach, N.Y., as the ocean smashed through a concrete wall and flooded her second-floor studio condominium with four feet of water.
When she called her insurance company, she was told she might have to pay as little as a couple of thousand dollars or as much as 10 percent of her condo's value, depending on whether the storm turned out to be officially a hurricane.
Read more...
- Mary Williams Walsh and Shaila Dewan 
 9:50 P.M. | The New New Journalism: Sifting Fact From Fiction on Twitter 
As our colleague Jenna Wortham reports, along with some remarkable images documenting the storm's impact this week, users of social networks have been sharing photographs that turned out to be inaccurate. Some were simply old images mistaken for - or passed off as - new ones; others were completely fake, fabricated by pranksters who took advantage of the new focus on social media as a source for journalists, which makes it easier than ever for a lie to make it halfway around the world before the truth gets its Google image search on.
Don't fall for these 6 fake Hurricane #Sandy pics in your feeds http://t.co/UhgfPlCb
- Pete Cashmore (@mashable)29 Oct 12
Increasingly, that means the work of journalists and bloggers with a desire to keep fact and fiction apart turns into debunking false reports during natural disasters. As the editors of The Atlantic's technology channel pointed out, one excellent source of lie-detection as the storm hit was the Tumblr "Is Twitter Wrong?" described by its editor as "A public service pedantry hub." 
The site's editor, Tom Phillips, who works for MSN when he is not busy scouring Twitter for errors, pointed out that one striking image, of soldiers guarding the Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington despite driving rain was not taken on Monday, but in September, despite what the Twitter feed @OMGFacts, and The Washington Post, initially claimed.
Amazing soldiers standing at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier during hurricane Sandy. http://t.co/h2AKd0kJ
- OMG Facts (@OMGFacts)29 Oct 12
The same site explained in detail that an image of a terrifying cloud formation over the Statue of Liberty was a fake, created by digitally merging a photograph of a storm that hit Nebraska in 2004 with one of the New York landmark. Mr. Phillips also explained to a reader of his site's Twitter feed that there were no sharks in the flooded New York City subway system.
A new one for you, @IsTwitWrong https://t.co/Z3gZeTly
- Fabiola (@PHAVZ)30 Oct 12
Still, in a world where a shirtless jogger in a horse mask did make it into a television news report on the storm in Washington, sifting fact from fiction is not always an easy task.
The news crew is down the block, Im thinking horse mask and swimming trunks?
- Jimmy Kruyne (@howtoJimmyK)29 Oct 12
Watch on Youtube.
- Robert Mackey 
 9:36 P.M. | Storm Closes City Schools for a Week 
New York City public schools will remain closed through the rest of the week, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said Wednesday, creating an enormous scheduling headache for harried parents. 
The mayor said he expected almost all schools to reopen on Monday. He acknowledged it was an "inconvenience for parents" for children to miss a week of school, but said he decided to cancel classes Thursday and Friday because many schools - about 200 of the city's 1,400 school buildings, according to the Education Department - had been damaged by the effects of Hurricane Sandy. Eighty-six schools had no power on Wednesday, and others had flooding, structural damage and plumbing problems.
At Public School 15 in Red Hook, Brooklyn, a dozen workers were struggling to pump water out of the basement Wednesday. The effort had started the night before. "That's a lot of water down there," said Elliott Cassas, a department employee.
Private schools seemed to be following in the city's footsteps, though Bay Ridge Preparatory and Saint Ann's in Brooklyn said they would open Thursday.
In New Jersey, dozens of school districts will be closed Thursday. On Nov. 8 and 9, Atlantic City was set to welcome New Jersey public school teachers for an annual convention billed as the largest gathering of its kind in the world. Students were scheduled to be off those days. Read more »
- Jenny Anderson 
 9:29 P.M. | Long Gas Lines, Clogged Roads and Hope for a Better Day 
With commutes that took hours, half-mile lines at suburban gas stations and city buses stuffed beyond capacity, the transportation systems in most of the region slowed to a crawl on Wednesday, amid promises that some subway and commuter rail services would be restored by the Thursday morning commute.
Beginning at 6 a.m., some service will resume on 14 of the city's 23 subway lines, but several critical lines - the No. 3 and 7 trains and the B, C, E, G and Q trains - remain entirely dark. Many trains will have gaps in their routes, including the No. 4 train, which will have no service between 42nd Street in Manhattan and Borough Hall in Brooklyn.
And if New Yorkers want to try their luck at driving into Manhattan on Thursday, most will require company: Beginning at 6 a.m., the city planned to bar private vehicles carrying fewer than three people from entering Manhattan over most major bridges, like the Robert F. Kennedy, Manhattan, Brooklyn and Williamsburg Bridges. Read more »
- Matt Flegenheimer 
 8:13 P.M. | In Long Beach, a Plea to Leave 
LONG BEACH, N.Y. - With no water, sewage, electricity, or cell-phone service expected to be restored to this Long Island beach community of 35,000 for several days, city officials went up and down streets with bullhorns Tuesday and Wednesday pleading with residents to leave for shelters on the Nassau County mainland.
"At first people were determined to stay with their homes," said Fran Adelson, a City Council member. "But without the most basic sanitary services, they are getting worn down. We've literally had older people in buildings screaming to get them out."
City officials said 4,000 people were evacuated by county buses on Tuesday. "We're expecting another fleet of buses any time now," Mike Robinson, the city's director of community development, said Wednesday. Because shelters in the middle of the island, at the Nassau County Coliseum and in Levittown were filled, residents were being transported to Manhasset High School on the North Shore.
As much as five feet of water surged up streets on Monday night, hitting the town from both the ocean side on the south and the bay side on the north, flooding homes and washing in walls of sand that blocked roads and buried cars.
Much of the city's 2.2-mile boardwalk buckled, and in many places was destroyed. The lifeguard headquarters at National Boulevard disappeared into the ocean. To keep gawkers away, members of the National Guard were stationed at the 14 ramps leading up to the boardwalk.
In the canals section of the city, a car caught fire on Monday night, and the flames quickly spread, destroying seven homes. On Hudson Street, members of the National Guard went door to door checking for gas leaks.
Because of the breakdown in the sewage system, city officials made plans to put portable toilets on the corners of the city's main street, Park Avenue.
Wednesday afternoon the state police set up blockades at the three roads leading into Long Beach, allowing only city residents to enter. Traffic on Long Beach Road was backed up at least a mile, as drivers waited to show identification and be waved through.
A curfew was put in place from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. "It's pitch black at night and there's so much debris on the streets, we can't have people injuring themselves," said Ms. Adelson. "The hospital was evacuated and closed down, even the emergency room."
While there had been news reports of looting, Michael Tagney, the police commissioner, said he knew of only one break in, at Frank's Barber Shop and Watch Repair on Park Avenue. Frank Oliviero, who has been in Long Beach more than fifty years, said among the things taken were over 800 batteries, a recent shipment of watch bands, and $300 from the register.
For some people, the biggest losses were their cars, which were destroyed by salt water and sand. Carmen Convertino, a bus driver, lost a car and motorcycle, he said, despite parking them on what he thought was high ground.
Sgt. Eric Cregeen said officials could see the fire from city hall a mile away, but could not get up Farrell Street because the water was five feet high. "In my 20 years, I never felt so frustrated, to be able to see it and not help," he said. "Cars were floating by us.
Fire departments responded from all over the county, including those from Hempstead, Roosevelt, Manhasset, and Elmont.
Wednesday, bulldozers plowed sand off Broadway, the main road along the beach, making 10-foot high hills at every corner. At Lido Towers, a condominium, the ocean washed over the dunes, submerging the first floor apartments.
Though Long Beach was without water and sewage service, neighboring Lido Beach, which is part of the town of Hempstead, did not lose service. To let residents know, town officials went door to door, leaving flyers, assuring residents that it was safe to drink the water.
Gas stations in the city were also closed. Residents drove several miles to Rockville Centre, where long lines made for long waits.
- Michael Winerip and Sandy Keenan 
 8:04 P.M. | Video From Staten Island, as Residents Take Stock 
Our colleague Erik Olsen was in Staten Island's Tottenville neighborhood on Wednesday, as residents started to clean up their flooded homes. He filed this video report on the effort to salvage as many precious, waterlogged items as possible.
- The New York Times 
 7:45 P.M. | Google Crisis Map Shows Power Losses 
Google's Crisis Response project has created a useful interactive map, collecting links to updated information on the effort to restore power in storm-damaged areas and eyewitness video posted on YouTube showing the impact of Sandy across much of the northeastern United States.
The larger map on Google's own Web site allows users to zoom in on a specific address and also add more layers of information, including useful Twitter accounts and storm shelters in operation.
- Robert Mackey 
 7:06 P.M. | New York Restaurant Industry Takes a Hit 
Across Lower Manhattan and into Brooklyn, this week's storm dealt a stinging blow to New York City's restaurant industry. With power out and walk-in refrigerators warming up, "we're basically going to lose all our product," said Andrew Carmellini, the chef at the Dutch in SoHo and Locanda Verde in TriBeCa.
That's not all he lost. In advance of Hurricane Sandy, Mr. Carmellini rented a car to help make sure that around-town transportation would be taken care of. He parked the car on 23rd Street. "The car got destroyed in the flood," he said. "The water went over the dashboard."
Then there was the truffles. Mr. Carmellini had been gearing up for his annual Trufflepalooza festival at Locanda Verde. "Now he's got $15,000 or $16,000 worth of truffles going bad," said Ken Friedman, a partner in that restaurant, as well as in properties associated with April Bloomfield like The Breslin, The John Dory Oyster Bar and the Spotted Pig. "We thought of doing a pop-up at the Breslin, but the chefs at the Breslin said nobody wants truffles."
It's not hard to see why restaurant folks, at least, might not be in the mood for luxury. Matt Abramcyk, an entrepreneur behind several bars and restaurants in TriBeCa, including Super Linda, estimated that he had lost $40,000 in spoiled food. Joe Bastianich and Mario Batali, who own several restaurants downtown, also suffered large losses, including at Eataly, their food store and restaurant space opposite Madison Square Park.
The Spotted Pig, in the West Village, has no power, no heat and no running water. "I thought, can't we just open with candlelight and bartenders?" Mr. Friedman said. "But we have no bathrooms, so that wouldn't work.''
In the financial district, flooding left Delmonico's, which originally opened in 1837, in disarray. "The water picked everything up and spun it round," said Dennis Turcinovic, one of the owners. "It was almost like a 'Wizard of Oz' effect. One of the refrigerators ended up in a private dining room."
But at Russ & Daughters, the iconic appetizing shop on the Lower East Side since 1914, Josh Russ Tupper, an owner, raced before, during and after the hurricane to put fish on ice, place supplies of caviar in "secure locations" and borrow a generator.
Moving quickly led to "very minimal losses," he said.
He could count himself lucky compared to Brooklyn restaurants like the Governor in Dumbo and the River Café, built on a barge in the East River. Both had substantial flooding.
Danny Meyer tweeted that the power loss had forced the shutdown of much of his citywide empire, including Maialino, Union Square Cafe and Gramercy Tavern. Remarkably, though, his newest restaurant, the North End Grill in the much-battered Battery Park City, was spared. Its chef, Floyd Cardoz, tweeted that it never lost refrigeration and was opening with a limited menu on Wednesday afternoon.
North End Grill open tonight. Kudos to extraordinary efforts of entire team, who's ready to work and welcome! http://t.co/FZrSzW0U
- Danny Meyer (@dhmeyer)31 Oct 12
Meanwhile, scores of restaurants in other parts of Manhattan experienced a rush in customers who were fleeing the darkened streets of downtown. Gail Simmons, the special projects director at Food & Wine magazine and a judge on "Top Chef," could be found with friends on Wednesday afternoon at Bar Americain, in Midtown, where she sought refuge from her powerless apartment (and near-empty pantry) in the West Village. "We are trying to ring up as big a tab as we can and order as much alcohol as we can so that we can charge our laptops and cellphones," she said. "There's not much left to eat at home."
In some spots, though, the battle to find food (and electrical outlets) seems to be stirring up tension. Consider the John Dory Oyster Bar and the Breslin, both of which are in the Ace Hotel, at the corner of Broadway and 29th Street.
"The lobby at the Ace is like a refugee camp," Mr. Friedman said. "People are milling around with their bags. They can't get their flights, they're grumpy and unhappy and not tipping. We had two restaurants open but ran out of food. It's not a good vibe.''
- Jeff Gordinier 
 6:22 P.M. | On Christie's Tour, Hugs, Tears and a Personal Touch 
Gov. Chris Christie's aerial tour alongside President Obama on Wednesday of New Jersey's storm damage was being observed in intensely political terms.
But down on the ground, earlier in the day, the governor's interactions with displaced residents displayed the personal gifts that have won him a broad following. His visit was documented by a pool reporter.
In Sayreville, across Raritan Bay from Staten Island, the foundations of several homes were washed away, following the rush of a five-foot surge that had marooned some 200 people who were rescued, mostly by boat.
Several women cried in Mr. Christie's arms as they told him how much they had lost. The governor alternatively embraced them, put his hands on both shoulders and spoke softly with an arm around their backs.
"I don't feel safe in my house and I don't know what to do," said a crying Elaine Konopka.
Mr. Christie said the Federal Emergency Management Agency would be helping out soon. Some people said FEMA hadn't treated them appropriately after Tropical Storm Irene. Mr. Christie said: "Don't you worry about it. I'll be with the president this afternoon, and the head of FEMA."
In telling the governor about her situation, another resident, Deborah Decker, said she didn't want to be too much of a nuisance.
"Don't worry," Mr. Christie answered. "I'm as big of a pain in the ass as anybody."
As the governor walked down the street, he approached several people who wanted to show him their homes.
"Please help us," Theresa Mills said.
"That's what I'm here to do," he responded.
He told a 95-year-old woman who recently had heart surgery: "I want you to relax. You had all that work done on your ticker. I don't want you to get wound up."
To give residents a perspective of what they were dealing with, Mr. Christie repeatedly told them that "this is the worst storm we've seen." He said 95 percent of customers for their utility, Jersey Central Power & Light, were without power, but governors from Mississippi and Massachusetts told him Wednesday morning that they would be sending additional crews to help restore electricity.
"This is going to be a bit of a haul," Mr. Christie said.
Kim Bosso introduced the governor to her son, who has cystic fibrosis. He has been cut off from his breathing machines since the power went out, and she said the utility company had told her that she was not a priority case and her insurance wouldn't cover her if she went to a hospital.
"This is my lawyer," Mr. Christie said, introducing her to Charles McKenna, his chief counsel. "He's going to take care of you."
Mr. McKenna took down Ms. Bosso's information.
A disabled great-grandmother, Dolores Beaton, 62, asked the governor to go into her home. He took her hand and led her through a huge puddle up onto her porch. Furniture was toppled over and the house smelled like mildew. Bills were lying on a table, wet. She said the recliner that she sleeps on had been ruined.
"Everything's gone," she said. "I don't have anything to lose; I can't replace anything - I have no money."
The governor told her that he was going to make sure FEMA opened an office in Middlesex County.
After he left the house, he talked with Assemblyman John Wisniewski, a Sayreville native, about what happened to the neighborhood.
"It came in so quickly," Mr. Wisniewski said.
"The storm surge was incredible," Mr. Christie said.
Patricia Smith showed the governor an outside door to her basement, where water had filled up.
"I'm devastated over this," she said. "I've been trying to keep it together but it's very hard."
"Of course it is," he responded. "That's why I came."
Samantha Hartung, 31, cried to Mr. Christie about her house, which she said was damaged beyond repair. She said she was hiding her pain from her children.
"Because that's what we do, right?" he said. "It's not your fault. You were ready, but you can't be ready for that."
He told a group of people: "Hang in there, O.K.? Sayreville's a tough place."
"The fact that we didn't have any loss of life here in Sayreville is a testimony to the people of this town and the government here that were able to put the right people in place to handle these kind of circumstances," he said.
He said he wanted to visit Sayreville before he met with the president so Mr. Obama understood "that it's not just the Jersey Shore that's been devastated."
 6:44 P.M. | Some Zoos to Reopen, but Aquarium Remains Closed 
The Wildlife Conservation Society, which runs the city's zoos and its aquarium, has updated its schedule for reopening:
Prospect Park Zoo will reopen on Thursday.
The Bronx Zoo will reopen on Saturday.
The Queens and Central Park Zoos will be closed Thursday and the society plans to issue an update soon.
The New York Aquarium will be closed indefinitely.
- The New York Times 
 5:46 P.M. | New England Fishing Industry Hurt by Storm's Impact on Demand 
BOSTON - Hurricane Sandy spared Massachusetts' coastal towns the worst of its physical damage, but left an economic chill over this region's fishing industry, causing boats to stay docked while eroding demand for fresh fish throughout the Northeast.
"Basically, nobody's buying fish from the mid-Atlantic up," said Chris Duffy, who manages operations at the Cape Ann Seafood Exchange, a seafood auction in Gloucester, Mass. "It just caused a big price drop, and everybody was backed up with fish."
The storm left processors unable to send shipments out of the region, and kept some from receiving shipments from other countries. The closing of the Fulton Fish Market, a major industry hub at Hunts Point in the Bronx, as well as markets in New Jersey and Philadelphia, has kept demand - and thus, prices - down, even while supply remains low.
"We're off by 75 percent on Monday and Tuesday, and probably 50 percent today," said Jack Flynn, the president of Mariner Seafood, a fresh-fish processing plant in New Bedford,Mass.
The trouble for the industry began late last week, when scores of fishermen cut trips short and came ashore at the same time, filling the market with product when buyers already expected low or nonexistent demand during the storm.
"There was no one to buy it - and it was like, oh my God," said Marty Odlin, who fishes for species like haddock, pollock and monkfish with a five-boat fleet in Portland, Me. "Prices just dropped, I'd say, at least 30 percent, 50 percent probably."
Then, the onset of the storm grounded fleets.
Mike Machado, the operations manager for Boston Sword and Tuna, which harvests and processes fish, said the storm cost the company one of the 10 to 12 fishing trips Boston Sword and Tuna makes a year.
"We've held our boats from going fishing, mostly because putting men in front of danger like that - it just got too rough, too nasty," Mr. Machado said. "We lost maybe a 10th of our gross income for the year on those boats."
By Wednesday, the industry was coming back to life, as trucking service picked up, restaurants reopened, and the markets began to stir. Buyers hoped the market would return to normal by the end of the week, and fisherman prepared to return to sea.
"We're sending the first boat out tonight," said Mr. Odlin, the fisherman, who said he was unsure how quickly prices would pick up. "This type of situation, it's part of fishing. So we deal with it."
- Jess Bidgood 
 5:52 P.M. | La Guardia Airport to Reopen Thursday 
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said on Wednesday that La Guardia Airport would reopen at 7 a.m. Thursday. Both runways will be open.
- The New York Times 
 5:46 P.M. | M.T.A. Map of Partial Subway Service for Thursday Morning 
As Matt Flegenheimer reported earlier, "Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Wednesday afternoon released an update of mass transit conditions, including details of the subway service restorations to begin on Thursday. Officials have said that for the gaps in service along typical subway routes, buses will often be added to make the necessary connections." 
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority distributed links to a (.pdf) map of the partial service planned to begin at 6 a.m. Thursday via its @MTAInsider Twitter feed.
This is a map of our post-storm subway service to start at approximately 6 a.m. tomorrow. http://t.co/HYQUwxtC
- MTA (@MTAInsider)31 Oct 12
M.T.A. Subway Map for Thursday (click at lower right to enlarge)
The M.T.A. also posted images showing the damage to tracks across Jamaica Bay used by the A train on the Rockaway line on Flickr.
Several video clips posted on the transit system's YouTube channel give a sense of the damage caused by the storm. Among the most dramatic was footage of the flooded South Ferry station at Whitehall Street in Lower Manhattan.
Video of flooding in a Lower Manhattan subway station, released by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
- Robert Mackey 
 4:54 P.M. | Pumping 30,000 Gallons a Minute From the Trade Center Site 
There are a half-dozen pumps sucking 30,000 gallons of water a minute out of the sub-basements at the World Trade Center site, as the cleanup from Hurricane Sandy continues on the 16-acre property.
Officials with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the site, estimated that 200 million gallons of water from New York Harbor poured into Lower Manhattan and the trade center site during the storm on Monday and Tuesday.
The recovery effort at the trade center will focus primarily on "de-watering" the site and re-establishing a connection to the electrical grid, officials said. The Port Authority still has to assess any damage to equipment, given that the chiller plant, which cools air for the complex, is under seven feet of water, and the transit hub is under 25 feet. 
More pumps, provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and private contractors, are on the way. Still, drying out the sub-basement known as B4, which is more than 70 feet below the street, could take four more days. In many areas of that basement, the water is 10 to 15 feet high. But there are no major electrical or mechanical systems on that level, which will be used mainly used for parking.
Elsewhere on the site, there is little if any serious damage to the main office towers under construction, or the cranes, hoists, or the memorial plaza, although there is water in the basements of the towers at 1 and 4 World Trade Center. At 1 World Trade Center, which is being built by the authority and the Durst Organization, there is 20 feet of water in one sub-basement and 15 feet in another. The Port Authority is working closely with the developer Larry Silverstein, who is building two towers on Church Street, on the cleanup. 
Aside from some debris, the memorial appears to be in good shape, although the underground museum has been turned into a 100,000-square-foot pool.
The water has been removed from the basement of Mr. Silverstein's tower across Vesey Street, at 7 World Trade Center, and the lobby has been cleaned. He is now trying to reconnect to the power system. 
At the World Financial Center, there is little apparent damage to the buildings. The lights are on, and the center will be open Thursday, although it is difficult for commuters to reach Lower Manhattan by public transportation.
- Charles V. Bagli 
 5:16 P.M. | Debate Over the Marathon Sunday 
Shouldthe New York City Marathon take thisyear off?
The race, the world's largest, with a field of nearly 50,000 runners, is scheduled for Sunday morning - barely six days after Hurricane Sandy left parts of the city in ruins and crippled its transportation system.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and marathon organizers have said the race will go on as scheduled, as it has every year since 1970, as a symbol of the city's resilience during hard times. But that plan has been hit by a backlash.
- The New York Times 
 4:37 P.M. | Gas Lines Cut to New Jersey Barrier Island 
Utility crews in New Jersey are working to cut natural-gas lines that ignited and re-ignited fires on New Jersey's northern barrier island, which was pummeled by the storm.
The crews could not get access to the tiny town on the island, Mantoloking, until noon on Wednesday, said Renée Amellio, a spokeswoman for New Jersey Natural Gas. All fires had been put out, and there was no imminent threat to life or property, she said.
Workers are moving from house to house and turning off gas at the meters. Ms. Amellio said the company decided not to cut off a main gas line because it would leave tens of thousands of customers without hot showers or cooking gas.
The Associated Press reported as many as 10 homes had caught fire in neighboring Brick Township during the storm, rupturing gas lines.
Rich Peterson, a spokesman for Ocean County, said no one was in danger. He said everyone on the island had evacuated, and most of their homes were swept into the ocean.
"We're pretty confident there's no one left," he said.
Mantoloking was Ocean County's hardest-hit town, Mr. Peterson said. Houses were lifted from their foundations and seen floating in the bay, he said. One house smashed into the entrance of the Mantoloking bridge, but the bridge "seems structurally perfectly fine," he said.
In another case, Mr. Peterson said, a large front-end loader moved to clear sand that nearly swallowed a house whole. There were people inside, alive, who crawled into the shovel of the big tractor to be rescued. They were then gently deposited into a dump truck to climb to safety.
- Andrew Phelps 
 4:57 p.m. | Obama and Christie Display Unity in Storm's Aftermath 
President Obama stood shoulder-to-shoulder with Chris Christie, the Republican governor of New Jersey, on Wednesday afternoon, providing reassurance after Hurricane Sandy - and a politically powerful picture of bipartisanship.
After touring through a hard-hit community on a barrier island in the state, the two men praised each other and expressed satisfaction with the cooperation of their governments.
"He has worked incredibly closely with me since before the storm hit," Mr. Christie said, with Mr. Obama standing just behind him. "It's been a great working relationship."
Mr. Christie - who has been one of Mr. Obama's biggest critics on behalf of Mitt Romney - testified on Wednesday to the president's personal help.
"I cannot thank the president enough for his personal concern and compassion for our state," Mr. Christie said. He introduced the president, saying that it was his "honor" to present him for remarks.
Mr. Obama was equally effusive, saying that Mr. Christie, "throughout this process, has been responsive."
"He's been aggressive," the president continued, "in making sure" that the state was prepared in advance of the storm.
"I think the people of New Jersey recognize that he's put his heart and soul" into the recovery after the storm. "I just want to thank him for his extraordinary leadership and participation."
The pair of political rivals standing next to each other less than a week before a presidential election testified to the magnitude of the storm, which brought them together despite their political differences.
Aides to both men had said they were not concerned about the political implications of the imagery at a time when people are suffering the effects of the storm and its aftermath.
- Michael D. Shear 
 4:10 P.M. | For Coast Guard, Waterways Are 'Eerily Quiet' 
Keeping clear of floating debris and making sure buoys are secure have been the Coast Guard's two biggest jobs in New York Harbor since Hurricane Sandy washed through.
The Coast Guard has not been called to rescue anyone by boat, though it did help coordinate some of the efforts in which stranded people were rescued by helicopter, said Lt. Cmdr. William Walsh of the Guard's New York station.
"The waterways have been eerily quiet, and that's good," Commander Walsh said Wednesday as his 45-foot rescue boat cruised through the calm waters of New York Bay.
The Coast Guard gave a few journalists a brief tour of the approximate route traveled on normal days by the Staten Island Ferry. Since the storm, the bay has been nearly empty, except for boats piloted by the Coast Guard, the New York Police Department, the Fire Department and the Army Corps of Engineers, which are tasked with clearing up debris.
"It hasn't been this quiet since 9/11," Commander Walsh said. "And it started to get busier, faster then."
There are no pleasure boats allowed in New York Harbor, and no commercial ships except for those with specific permission from the Coast Guard, the commander said. On Wednesday afternoon, with journalists on board, the Coast Guard vessel spotted a group of three people sailing on a small boat called the "Chandi Nerissa." The Guard vessel pulled up alongside and gave the boat's occupants a warning.
"They're in violation of the rule to stay out of the water for now," Commander Walsh said.
Even the sturdy Coast Guard boat had to be careful, he said. The bay was spotted with bobbing chunks of pier, construction debris, logs, trash and other hazards. The boat could not safely get close to a section of the Staten Island shore where a tanker ship had washed up. At one point the Coast Guard boat had to stop and reverse its engines to clear debris.
The storm presented the Guard with many obstacles, Commander Walsh said, starting with the fact that its Staten Island headquarters flooded on Monday night. Guard officers have been sleeping in and working from a nearby firehouse.
The Guard's biggest job in the storm's aftermath is making sure all buoys around New York are still properly placed. The buoys are to ship traffic what street signs are to cars and trucks.
"Nowdays a lot of people navigate with GPS," the commander said. "But the buoys are more accurate."
The next challenge for the Coast Guard will be trying to assess what pollutants, and in what quantities, spilled into the bay. The Coast Guard has begun contacting businesses that store liquid pollutants, including gasoline, to find out if any are missing, Commander Walsh said.
As the Coast Guard vessel was close to its dock near Battery Park, a distress signal came in.
"We've got two kids in the water off South Beach," the commander called to his six crew members. "That's all I know right now."
- Nate Schweber 
 4:22 P.M. | Thousands Trapped by Flooding in Hoboken 
National Guard troops sought on Wednesday to rescue thousands of residents still trapped by sewage-laced floodwaters in Hoboken, N.J., on the Hudson River, as local officials pleaded for volunteers to help. A significant part of Hoboken remained under several feet of water after most of the low-lying land on the west side was engulfed by the storm surge from Hurricane Sandy. Read more...
- David M. Halbfinger and Julia Preston 
 4:39 P.M. | President Obama and Gov. Chris Christie Speak 
President Obama and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey are discussing the aftermath of the storm at a news conference.
- The New York Times 
 4:22 P.M. | Obama and Christie Deliver Brief Remarks 
Reporters traveling with President Obama and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey have provided a fuller transcript of the comments by both men at a shelter in Brigantine Beach, N.J.
"I want to just let you know that your governor is working overtime to make sure that as soon as possible, everybody can get back to normal," Mr. Obama said. "Hopefully if your homes aren't too badly damaged we can get the power back on and get you back in. For those of you whose homes are damaged we've also got Director Fugate of FEMA, and one of the things we're going to do is to activate and make sure you guys are getting the help you need as quickly as possible."
A few moments later, Mr. Christie offered the following:
"I just want to tell all of you exactly what the president just said. I know he means it. We took a whole tour of the coast. He got a chance to see the destruction along the coast of New Jersey and we've been working with Director Fugate here to make sure that we need the things we need to get here. This state is working hard, too; you know we're working hard. I want to thank the president for coming here today. It's really important to have the president of the United States acknowledge all the suffering that's going on here in New Jersey and I appreciate it very much. We're going to work together to make sure we get ourselves through this crisis and get everything back to normal. Thank you for coming, sir."
- Michael D. Shear 
 3:49 P.M. | Couple From Randolph, N.J., Are Killed in Storm 
A Randolph, N.J., couple who were active in pharmaceutical circles and in the equestrian world were killed when a tall tree fell on their pickup truck as they drove through Mendham Township on Monday night at the height of the storm.
According to the police, the couple, Richard and Elizabeth Everett, were driving north on North Gate Road, in a four-door Chevrolet Silverado when the accident took place.
Their 11- and 14-year-old sons, Pierce and Theo, were in the back seat when a 30-inch wide, 100-foot tall tree to the right of the car struck "and severely impacted" the cab, leaving the parents dead at the scene, the Mendham Township police chief, Steven Crawford, said.
Chief Crawford said the boys managed to climb out of the wreckage as first responders made their way to the scene. "My sergeant was the first one on the scene, and when he rolled up, one of the children was already out of the vehicle, and after he tended to the first, the second one exited the vehicle,'' he said.
Gov. Chris Christie initially told reporters that the couple had been struck after getting out of their truck. But the police on Wednesday confirmed that the couple died while driving.
"They were just trying to get home," Chief Crawford said. "It's very unfortunate."
The boys were taken to Morristown Memorial Hospital, the more seriously injured of the two with a head injury, the police said. Neighbors of the family said that the children had been released, and that relatives were en route who could help the orphaned children.
Besides the two passengers in the vehicle, the couple also had two older teenagers, Zoe and Thalia.
The family had recently opened the Blue Crest Riding Center in Long Valley, N.J., where the children pitched in, according to its Web site.
Over a long career in the pharmaceutical industry, Ms. Everett, who was 48 and known as Beth, had been the chief information officer for Organon USA and ImpactRx, and an associate director at SmithKline Beecham. She was most recently employed as a senior consultant at Carter McKenzie Select in Pine Brook, N.J.
"It's tough for the neighborhood," said Jason Williams, a neighbor. "They were a big part of the community."
- Alison Leigh Cowan 
 3:39 P.M. | New Jersey Town Issues 'Gridlock Alert' 
The police department of Morristown, N.J., issued a "Gridlock Alert," via text message on Wednesday afternoon, reading: "Avoid Morristown. Gas stations are out of fuel, please make other arrangements."
A local news site, Morristown Green, reported Wednesday morning from a Getty Station where more than 100 cars were in a long line, "Gas station attendants said delivery trucks have not arrived in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy; Morristown police were dispatched to break the news to long lines of unhappy motorists." Berit Ollestad, a Morristown Green reporter, posted video of the line of cars on YouTube.
Video shot by Berit Ollestad, a Morristown Green reporter, showed a line of cars waiting to buy gas on Wednesday morning in Morristown, N.J.
- Robert Mackey 
 3:38 P.M. | Bloomberg Ends Briefing by Remembering Those Killed 
Mr. Bloomberg has left the Blue Room of City Hall. In his brief appearance, he alerted parents that they would have children home from school for two more days, and warned drivers that the calculus of Manhattan commuting would be temporarily, significantly changed: if you have fewer than three passengers in the car, you will not be allowed to cross a bridge or tunnel. 
The mayor began and ended his remarks with words for those who lost a loved one to Hurricane Sandy's wrath. Would the city be back to normal? Perhaps, Mr. Bloomberg said, but not for families missing a child, a parent, a sibling. "The bottom line is, we've lost some people," the mayor said in his concluding moments on the stage. He said the city must ensure that workers can still get into the office, that tourists can still visit attractions, and that New York achieve all this "in the name of those we lost."
Mr. Bloomberg played the same direct, logistic-minded engineer that New Yorkers have come to know. But these softer grace notes, along with a few light moments about his now-broken plans to attend the canceled Knicks-Nets game, were a subtle contrast to his usual, let's-keep-this-efficient approach.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 3:33 P.M. | Scenes From Lower Manhattan 
By lunchtime on Wednesday, Water Street, the broad thoroughfare that runs up from the Battery parallel with the East River, just a block away from where the tidal surge poured over the sea wall and churned through the financial district's streets Monday night, was crowded with all manner of trucks and contractors. And as generators hummed and pumps forced water into the street, cellphone service in the area around Manhattan's southernmost tip seemed to improve somewhat.
In addition to the dozens of Consolidated Edison trucks and vans, there were giant flatbed and tractor-trailer trucks from companies as far away as Virginia, unloading pumps and other heavy equipment. There were demolition contractors, plumbers, electrical contractors, equipment leasing companies, telecommunications contractors and general construction companies along with disaster services contractors from around the country.
A giant black tractor-trailer truck from the Cotton Global Disaster Services, based in Houston, was packed with pumps, equipment for dehumidification and extraction, along with safety gear and food, according to a crisis director for the company who did not want to give his name because he does not generally speak to the media.
"We help business prepare for, respond to and recover from devastating events and we do that in a variety of ways," he said. 
He said the company had as many as 10 clients in the New York City area, but he did not want to name the client or type of company it was working for on Water Street, saying only, "Well, we're working here in the financial district." He said its work would include pumping out water, "mucking out," drying and stabilizing the building along with cleaning and treatment.
"The endstate," he said, "is to put it in a pre-loss condition."
A few blocks to the north, for most of the smaller businesses along Peck Slip and Front Street, also a block from the river, the damage - and the amount of work required to reach anything approaching a "pre-loss condition" - was far more evident. For these restaurants, bars and small shops, it could be measured, perhaps on a smaller scale, but in more tangible terms: the piles of damaged tables and chairs, broken crockery, broken refrigeration units and pots and pans.
Alessandro Giannini, the manager of Il Brigante on Front Street, worked with several of the other employees cleaning out the swamped six-year-old Italian restaurant, whose tables and chairs were piled in the street. "None of us were prepared," said Mr. Giannini, waving down the block toward the other eateries and shops.
He said they had boarded up the windows with wooden panels but the water just poured in. He pointed to a mark on the wall about five feet up. "We can buy a new refrigerator," he said, but the wiring in the walls was likely damaged by salt water, something that they needed to determine before switching on any new equipment. Despite what appeared to be a daunting challenge, he said the restaurant hoped to reopen in two weeks or so.
Down the block, Jack Mazzola was much luckier. His Jack's Coffee II, one of four shops, is about three feet higher than most of the other businesses on the block, a small flight of steps. While he said the shop was flooded - he pointed to a spot on the wall about 2 \xC2 or 3 feet high that marked the high water - it fared far better than most of his neighbors and he said he hoped to open soon.
Mr. Mazzola, an energetic man who himself seems to be highly caffeinated, said his shops were designed to be community meeting places.
"We get power and we can do cash and carry and get the neighborhood caffeinated," he said.
- William K. Rashbaum 
 3:29 P.M. | Bloomberg Warns Drivers Who Disobey Restrictions 
What will happen to drivers who try to enter Manhattan on Thursday with fewer than three passengers in the car? "We'll stop you," Mr. Bloomberg said emphatically. "You're not going to be able to get in." A reporter had asked whether a ticket or fine might be issued. The mayor suggested that scofflaw motorists would face a harsher penalty: shame. "Everybody's going to be driving by and honking at you, I assume," the mayor said. 
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 3:15 P.M. | Power Restored in Small Part of Manhattan 
Power has been turned back on in the first section of Manhattan that lost it, a Consolidated Edison executive said Wednesday afternoon.
Electricity is flowing again to about 2,000 of the more than 220,000 Manhattan customers that have not had power since the East River surged up and swamped a Con Edison station at the east end of 14th Street. Most of the restored service is to large buildings, filled with either offices or apartments.
The rest of the company's customers below Midtown that lost power probably will not get it back until Friday or Saturday, said John Miksad, senior vice president for electric operations. But the Brighton Beach area of Brooklyn should have power again by 4 p.m. Wednesday, he said.
The "re-energized" network serves an area below Vesey Street on the west side of the southern tip of Manhattan, from the World Trade Center down to Battery Park. Mr. Miksad said it was restored first because it was the least damaged of all of the networks knocked out by the flooding.
All told, the company has restored power to more than 110,000 customers, but more than 785,000 are still without power in the city and Westchester County, he said.
- Patrick McGeehan 
 3:25 P.M. | Obama and Christie Exchange Words of Praise 
At the Brigantine Beach Community Center, President Obama praised Chris Christie, the governor of New Jersey, for his efforts in responding to the storm.
"I want to let you know that your governor is working overtime," Mr. Obama said to people who fled to the community center as a shelter from the storm.
Mr. Christie quickly returned the compliment, saying of Mr. Obama, "he's been working with me," and adding, "It's really important to have the president of the United States here."
Both men spoke privately with some of the people at the shelter. 
- Michael D. Shear 
 3:24 P.M. | Bloomberg Hopes City Will Be Mostly Normal by Monday 
"Do you believe in crossing your fingers? I hope so." - Mayor Bloomberg's response to being asked if the city might be mostly back to normal by Monday. He said he was hopeful that mass transit and power would be mostly restored by then. Schools will be open, too. "In general context, yes, it will be back," Mr. Bloomberg concluded, but he added, "If you lost somebody, it's never going to be."
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 3:18 P.M. | Halloween Parade and Basketball Called Off 
Mr. Bloomberg said the Knicks-Nets game on Thursday at the Barclays Center had been canceled "at my recommendation." The mayor said he had planned to attend with his daughters and his companion, Diana Taylor, but he believed the lack of mass transit would cause too many difficulties. "I was looking forward to it," Mr. Bloomberg said. 
The New York City Marathon will be held on Sunday as planned, the mayor said. 
Mr. Bloomberg also said that Greenwich Village's Halloween parade would go on "some day next week," with a date yet to be determined. "Is trick-or-treating on tonight? Well, I suppose that's between you and your neighbors," Mr. Bloomberg said. 
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 3:17 P.M. | Labor Report on Jobs to Arrive Friday on Schedule 
WASHINGTON - The October jobs report - the most anticipated piece of economic data still to be released before the election - will come out as scheduled on Friday morning, the government said on Wednesday. 
Hurricane Sandy had shut down federal offices on Monday and Tuesday, and threatened to delay the release of the monthly jobs numbers. That led to hand-wringing in the presidential campaigns and even some accusations that the Obama administration might delay the numbers for its political benefit.
But a Labor Department spokesman said Wednesday in an e-mail that the report would come out as planned, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time on Friday. 
Read more...
- Annie Lowrey 
 3:16 P.M. | Obama and Christie Return from Air Tour 
After touring New Jersey's coastal damage from the air, President Obama and Gov. Chris Christie are now at a community center in Brigantine Beach that is being used as a shelter.
A White House official told reporters that the president would talk to some of the 50 people who remain at the shelter.
- Michael D. Shear 
 3:13 P.M. | City Parks May Reopen This Weekend 
The mayor hopes to reopen parks and playgrounds by the weekend. Until then, residents should stay away from parks, Mr. Bloomberg said. The parks department is still responding to reports of broken or dangling tree limbs. Mr. Bloomberg said the weekend "will be a good time to take the kids to the parks. Everyone will have been cooped up all week."
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 2:51 P.M. | At La Guardia, Workers Trickle In; Cleanup Continues 
La Guardia Airport was still closed Wednesday morning, with police officers sealing off approach roads and denying access to the public. Airport staff members and cleanup workers came and went as stranded passengers hunkered down in nearby hotels, trying to make alternative arrangements.
Along the edge of the now-receded water, piles of garbage lay washed up on the shore, up to the airport perimeter. Rotten fruit, flotation devices, soccer balls and thousands of glass and plastic bottles created a filthy rim of rubbish, showing the highest point to which the water rose during the storm. Shredded plastic bags dangled from tree branches.
Some airport staff members showed up for work for the first time since the hurricane. Michael DeLuca, 27, an electrician from Astoria, Queens, said he had arrived at dawn but departed half an hour later as so few of his colleagues had shown up. "The airport looked fine, but there's a natural dirt path that takes you into the airport and you can see where the water came in. It had to be 15 feet up from the low-tide mark," he said. He would show up for work again tomorrow, he said. "That's all we can do."
As he left the airport at the end of his night shift Abdallah Zeba, 42, a security guard, said that inside the building the airport was all right, but on the runway some of the water was up to knee level. "There is still water on the runway and even though the water may dry within a few hours, we love our customers and we don't want a risk," he said. "We will wait for the engineers to come and test the runway and prove it's safe before we can resume any work."
By early afternoon, from a vantage point in a nearby building overlooking the airport, large stretches of the tarmac appeared to be clear of flood water. However some pools remained, and service vehicles shuttled back and forth, continuing the clearance effort.
- Stephen Farrell 
 3:10 P.M. | Schools to Be Closed for the Rest of the Week 
Public schools in New York City will remain closed for students for the remainder of this week, Mr. Bloomberg said. Teachers will be asked to report to work on Friday to prepare for reopening facilities next week.
"I realize this is a great inconvenience for parents," Mr. Bloomberg said.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 3:08 P.M. | Business Leader Donates Money to Recovery Work 
Mr. Bloomberg said that a business leader has committed $2.5 million to assist the city with its recovery efforts. He said the identity of the benefactor would be revealed at a later time.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 3:08 P.M. | Dangling Crane to Be Secured in Coming Days 
The city is hoping to tie down the dangling crane on 57th Street in Midtown; an additional crane will have to be constructed at the building to remove the broken boom. "The street will not be fully reopened until sometime this weekend at the earliest," Mr. Bloomberg said.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 3:07 P.M. | Special Bus Lanes Set Up Linking Manhattan and Brooklyn 
Dedicated bus lanes will be created to help buses travel from Brooklyn into Manhattan on Thursday, Mr. Bloomberg said.
The Police Department will also set up nearly 200 "light towers" in downtown Manhattan on Wednesday evening, to provide illumination for a swath of the city that remains without power for the second full day. The mayor said the city had also been in touch with representatives of major cellphone companies to discuss the difficulties with service in Lower Manhattan.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 3:02 P.M. | Car Restriction to Be Enforced on Several Crossings 
Mr. Bloomberg said the restriction on automobiles with fewer than three passengers would be enforced at the free East River bridges - the Brooklyn, Manhattan, Queensboro and Williamsburg Bridges - along with the Robert F. Kennedy Bridge (formerly the Triborough); the Lincoln Tunnel; and the Henry Hudson Bridge in Upper Manhattan. An exception will be made for the George Washington Bridge, he said.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 1:40 P.M. | Broken Crane Is Paralyzing Nearby Carnegie Hall 
The crane boom dangling over West 57th Street like a broken violin bow has paralyzed life at Carnegie Hall, one of the world's most precious concert spaces almost directly across the street.
The hall canceled all concerts on Tuesday and Wednesday, and Thursday's performance by the Orchestra of St. Luke's. The city has cordoned off streets surrounding the hall and cut off utilities to the area for safety reasons, making it impossible for audience members, performers and anybody else to enter.
The closing comes at a critical time for Carnegie, which is in the heart of its season. Read more
- Daniel J. Wakin 
 3:01 P.M. | Mandatory Evacuation Orders to Remain in Place 
The mandatory evacuation orders in Zone A remain in effect, and the mayor said they would not be lifted until the Buildings Department had a chance to inspect buildings in those areas. "I know it's annoying to everyone, but we don't need more loss of life," Mr. Bloomberg said.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 3:00 P.M. | Driving Into Manhattan to Be Restricted 
Automobiles carrying fewer than three passengers will be temporarily prohibited from entering Manhattan, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced, a measure intended to streamline the commute for millions of New Yorkers trying to get to work as the subway system remains partly crippled.
The restrictions, similar to those imposed by the city in the months after the Sept. 11 attacks, will be enforced at nearly every major crossing into Manhattan, Mr. Bloomberg said. They will be in effect from 6 a.m. to midnight. The mayor suggested that an exception would be made for the George Washington Bridge.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 2:56 P.M. | Bloomberg Mourns Lives Lost in Storm 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has begun his latest briefing on the storm recovery. 
"For all we do to recover, it's fair to say we can't replace the lives of the people lost in the storm," he began, speaking in softer tones than usual about the injuries and deaths caused by the hurricane. "Any loss of life is tragic; sadly, nature is dangerous, and these things occur. The best thing we can do for those who did die is make sure this city recovers for those who come out of this and build a better life for those left behind."
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 2:46 P.M. | How Hurricane Sandy Slapped the Sarcasm Out of Twitter 
Twitter is often a caldron of sarcasm, much of it funny, little of it useful. But as a social medium based on short-burst communication, Twitter can change during large events - users talk about "watching" the spectacle unfold across their screens. It is, after all, a real-time service, which means that you can "see" what is happening as it happens.
As a media reporter, my Twitter feed has a strong Manhattan bias, serving as a sandbox for media and technology types that I follow. Under normal circumstances, we show up on Twitter to preen, self-promote and crack wise about the latest celebrity scene. If that New York cohort has a soul - insert your own joke here - you could see into it on Twitter.
And then along came Hurricane Sandy. For most of Monday, people on Twitter were watching an endless loop of hurricane coverage on television and having some fun with it, which is the same thing that happens when the Grammys or the Super Bowl is on. But as the storm bore down, Twitter got busy and very, very serious.
It is hard to data-mine the torrent - some estimates suggested there were three and a half million tweets with the hashtag #Sandy - but my feed quickly moved from the prankish to the practical in a matter of hours as landfall approached. I askedSimon Dumenco, who writes the Media Guy column for Advertising Age and is well versed in the dark arts of Twitter analytics, about the tonal shift via e-mail.
"I kept a close eye on the Top 10 Trends chart as Sandy was bearing down on the East Coast, and there was no shortage of gravitas on Twitter," he wrote. "The last time I checked before losing power in my Manhattan apartment, seven of the 10 trends were Sandy-related - New Jersey, ConEd, Hudson River, Lower Manhattan, FEMA, Queens and #SandyRI. Clicking on each of them yielded plenty of information."
At my home in suburban New Jersey, a 30-foot limb dropped down at 4 p.m., so the illusion that this was an event happening to someone else quickly dissipated. And at 8 p.m., just when we hunkered down in front of the big screen, the house went dark. This very large event would not be televised. We built a fire and sat around a hand-cranked radio, but I was diverted over and over by the little campfire of Twitter posts on my smartphone.
It was hard to resist. Twitter not only keeps you in the data stream, but because you can contribute and re-tweet, you feel as if you are adding something even though Mother Nature clearly has the upper hand. The activity of it, the sharing aspect, the feeling that everyone is in the boat and rowing, is far different from consuming mass media.
Read more...
- David Carr 
 2:39 P.M. | Basketball Game at Barclays Center Postponed 
A day after the N.B.A. announced the game would go on, the Brooklyn Nets' debut at the Barclays Center, scheduled for Thursday night, was postponed because of the lingering effects of Hurricane Sandy.
- The New York Times 
 2:37 P.M. | Obama and Christie View Widespread Destruction 
President Obama and Chris Christie, the governor of New Jersey, viewed widespread devastation along the New Jersey coast, according to a report from journalists in a helicopter following behind Marine One on Wednesday afternoon.
The two politicians have not yet spoken about what they saw, but the report from the journalists described the view from their ride.
"There was a carnival and a large pier that look like the storm took giant bites out of the ends of them," the pool reporter said, describing the town of Seaside Heights. "Houses flattened - not whole neighborhoods, but scattered here and there. Wood fragments everywhere. The boardwalk gone except for lonely posts here and there. The whole town looks like a beach with houses sprouting out from the middle of their first levels."
The pool reporter described the water's devastation, including a "fire, which appears to have taken out about eight homes to the ground. It is burning as we pass by."
Some of the towns along the coast seemed to have fared better, the reporter wrote.
"At Ship Bottom, things look better," the reporter said. "Roads only have sand on them within two blocks of the ocean. Streets are under water at the bayfront at what looks like loading docks for boats. There are a handful of what were once walkways to the beach that have been torn apart. Other walkways to the beach remain."
But there is clearly a lot of damage.
"The next town to the north, Point Pleasant Beach, again has sand and water everywhere. It is about four blocks inland before you can see concrete on the roads," the report says. "Someone has written 'ROMNEY' in large letters in the sand at the north end of Point Pleasant Beach."
- Michael D. Shear 
 2:16 P.M. | The Impact on the Rat Population, for Better and Worse 
There are millions of rats in New York City and - usually, blessedly - they remain hidden, under the streets, inside subway tunnels, and in and around the waterfront. Hurricane Sandy has changed that, however.
The city's health department believes the storm has had a significant impact on the rat population, for better and worse. Sam Miller, a spokesman for the department, said that some percentage have most likely died in the deep floodwaters inside the subway tunnels. "They are pretty good swimmers," he said, "but they also drown, especially the young ones. The flooding kills them in their burrows."
The result, he said, may be a "net reduction" in the rat population.
Now for the bad news. The stronger rats have probably fled the rising waters and emerged on the surface. Pedestrians and bicyclists have reported seeing clusters of dead rats in Riverside Park and isolated victims on the bike path that runs along the West Side Highway. Mr. Miller said that the health department had yet to observe an increase on the streets and sidewalks, but he added, "We're monitoring that."
According to the department's rodentologist - yes, that's a job title - New Yorkers need not worry about increased numbers of rats in terms of disease. "There's no demonstrated health risk from flushed-out rats," said Mr. Miller, noting that the predominant species in the city was the Norway rat.
- Lisa W. Foderaro 
 1:56 P.M. | Details Released on Restoring Mass Transit Service 
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo on Wednesday afternoon released an update of mass transit conditions, including details of the subway service restorations to begin on Thursday. Officials have said that for the gaps in service along typical subway routes, buses will often be added to make the necessary connections. Here is the statement from the governor's office:
 N.Y.C.T. SUBWAY SERVICE:
 1 trains will operate local between 242nd Street (Bronx) and Times Square-42nd Street.
 2 trains will operate between 241st Street (Bronx) and Times Square-42nd Street, with express service between 96th Street and Times Square.
 3 trains are suspended.
 4 trains will operate in two sections making all local stops:

        
Between Woodlawn (Bronx) and Grand Central-42nd Street
        
Between Borough Hall and New Lots Avenue
 5 trains will operate express in Brooklyn between Atlantic Avenue-Barclays Center and Flatbush Avenue.
 6 trains will operate local between Pelham Bay Park and Grand Central-42nd Street.
 7 trains are suspended.
 42nd Street Shuttle S trains will operate between Times Square and Grand Central. 
 A trains will operate in two sections making all local stops: 

        
Between 168th Street (Manhattan) and 34th Street-Penn Station
        
Between Jay Street/MetroTech and Lefferts Blvd.
 B and C service is suspended.
 D trains operate in two sections:

        
Between 205th Street (Bronx) and 34th Street-Herald Square making all local stops
        
In Brooklyn, between Atlantic Avenue-Barclays Center and Bay Parkway making express stops between Pacific Street and 36th Street
 E trains are suspended.
 F trains operate in two sections making all local stops: 

        
Between 179th Street (Queens) and 34th Street-Herald Square
        
In Brooklyn, between Jay Street-MetroTech and Avenue X
 G trains are suspended.
 J trains operate between Jamaica Center and Hewes Street making all local stops.
 L trains operate between Broadway Junction and rockaway Parkway making all local stops.
 M trains operate between Myrtle Avenue-Broadway and Metropolitan Avenue.
 N trains operate between Ditmars Blvd. (Queens) and 34th Street-Herald Square making all local stops.
 Q trains are suspended.
 R trains operate in Brooklyn between Jay Street-MetroTech and 95th Street making all local stops.
Both the Franklin Avenue and Rockaway Park S shuttles are suspended.
 SHUTTLE BUSES: 
All shuttle buses will operate north on 3rd Avenue and south on Lexington Avenue. 

        
Between Atlantic Avenue-Barclays Center and 57th Street-Lexington Avenue via the Manhattan Bridge
        
Between Jay Street-MetroTech and 57th Street-Lexington Avenue via the Manhattan Bridge
        
Between Hewes Street and 57th Street-Lexington Avenue via the Williamsburg Bridge
 LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD: 
City Terminal - (Jamaica - Penn Station): Suspended (anticipate shuttle between these stations later tonight) 
Ronkonkoma Branch: Suspended (goal to restore hourly service from Ronkonkoma to Penn Station for AM rush hour Thursday, Nov. 1) 
Port Washington Branch: Suspended (goal to restore hourly service from Great Neck to Penn Station for AM rush hour Thursday, Nov. 1) 
Babylon Branch: Suspended
Port Jefferson Branch: Suspended
Montauk Branch: Suspended
Hempstead Branch: Suspended
Long Beach: Suspended
Far Rockaway: Suspended
Oyster Bay Branch: Suspended
West Hempstead: Suspended
 METRO-NORTH: 
Hudson Line: Suspended
Upper Harlem Line: Suspended
Lower Harlem Line: Restored with hourly service
New Haven Line: Suspended
New Canaan Branch: Suspended
Danbury Branch: Suspended
Waterbury Branch: Suspended
West-of-Hudson:
Pascack Valley: Suspended
Port Jervis: Suspended
 Bridges and Tunnels 
Robert F. Kennedy Bridge: Open
Henry Hudson Bridge: Open
Throgs Neck Bridge: Open
Bronx-Whitestone Bridge: Open
Verrazano-Narrows Bridge: Open
Marine Parkway-Gil Hodges Memorial Bridge: Open
Cross Bay Veterans Memorial: Open northbound to Broad Chanel; Open southbound to Rockaways but subject to period closures for emergency equipment
Hugh L. Carey Tunnel: Closed
Queens Midtown Tunnel: Closed
- Matt Flegenheimer 
 12:39 P.M. | Dozens of National Parks Stay Closed or Partly Closed 
The National Park Service reported that 69 parks were closed or partly closed as of Tuesday night, as teams of emergency managers converged on the Gateway National Recreation Area to focus on parks in northern New Jersey and in New York City and its harbor.
The park service's morning report has a preliminary rundown.
All electrical and mechanical systems on Ellis Island are under water, it said, and a fuel tank has been dislodged; Liberty Island may have lost all its high-voltage equipment.
Early reports show that the damage at some units of the park system is very severe, and in some cases the parks are likely to take a long time to reopen fully.
Some places that are prone to flooding, however, like Harpers Ferry, at the confluence of the Shenandoah and Potomac Rivers, are open today. A ranger has scheduled a program today about the town's historic floods.
Thousands of local and state parks also remain closed, including all of New York City's. 
- John H. Cushman Jr. 
 1:58 P.M. | Obama's Storm-Damage Tour Is Not About Politics, Spokesman Says 
Jay Carney, the president's press secretary, told reporters on Air Force One that the damage tour with Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey should not be seen as a political event.
"This is a time to focus on what was a devastating storm and the terrible aftermath of that storm," Mr. Carney said as Mr. Obama flew to New Jersey from Washington. 
He added: "New Jersey was by many measures the hardest-hit state, I believe that's correct. It is entirely appropriate for the president to visit New Jersey and receive updates on the efforts there to recover and to view firsthand the damage inflicted by Sandy. This is not a time for politics."
Mr. Christie has been one of Mr. Obama's fiercest critics, accusing him of lacking the abilities to lead the nation effectively. But in the past several days, he has had nothing but praise for the president.
Asked why the president chose to visit New Jersey, Mr. Carney said that "we are very careful about making sure that the places that we visit we are not using resources that would otherwise be used in recovery efforts; that's the case here."
- Michael D. Shear 
 1:46 P.M. | Bellevue Hospital Is Being Evacuated 
Bellevue Hospital Center, New York City's flagship public hospital, is evacuating about 500 patients, hospital officials said moments ago. 
Bellevue, which is in Manhattan near the East River but not in the worst of the flood zone, has been operating on backup generators. Its lobby has been dark, with other lights working intermittently, doctors said.
The health department has authorized "surge capacity plans," hospital officials said. Appeals for other hospitals to take Bellevue patients have been marked "URGENT" and "ASAP."
Officials at other hospitals said that they were being asked to accept patients above their normal capacity, under rules put in place for catastrophic events.
On Tuesday, signs of stress were evident as people could be seen carrying babies down the staircase. One doctor questioned why the hospital was not fully evacuating, and thought it might be that because the nearby NYU Langone Medical Center had been forced to evacuate 300 patients, after discharging 100, and there was not enough room at other hospitals.
The hospital smelled bad, perhaps from fuel. Emergency lights were on. Ambulances were being diverted from the emergency room, which is one of the city's major trauma centers.
- Anemona Hartocollis 
 1:37 P.M. | Officials Hope to Secure Crane This Weekend 
Officials are hoping this weekend to secure the broken crane boom that is dangling 1,000 feet above 57th Street, across from Carnegie Hall, forcing the evacuation of nearby buildings and street closings.
The steel boom, which sits atop a mast next to the skyscraper under construction at 157 West 57th Street, twisted and snapped in strong winds on Monday afternoon. The boom now points downward, swaying in the wind.
"It's possible that some work could be done tomorrow," said one city official who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter. "The vacate zones will be shrunk as we get closer to the weekend."
Executives from Extell Development, the developer, have been meeting with officials from the Buildings Department, engineers, the crane manufacturer and construction executives to devise a plan to lash the boom to the building and prevent it from plunging to the street below.
The boom extends from a swiveling platform at the top of the crane. Officials hope to be able to turn the platform, moving the boom closer to the building.
The mast itself is tied to the building at various intervals as it rises to the top of the tower.
 On Monday night, building inspectors, along with firefighters rode it to the 20th floor, before climbing the remaining 54 floors to the top of the skyscraper where they inspected the damaged boom amid swirling winds. They determined that although the crane was stable, it needed to be further secured. After the storm eased Tuesday afternoon, the inspectors returned to the top of the tower for a second inspection. Since then, engineers and officials have been devising a plan to safely strap the broken boom to the building. 
- Charles V. Bagli 
 1:30 P.M. | Christie Greets Obama as He Arrives in New Jersey 
Chris Christie, the Republican governor of New Jersey, greeted President Obama as he emerged from Air Force One on Wednesday for a joint tour of the state's devastated coast.
The two shook hands at the bottom of the stairs from the president's plane, and Mr. Obama patted the governor on the back several times. Craig Fugate, the head of FEMA, also shook hands with Mr. Christie.
Mr. Christie and Mr. Obama talked to each other as they walked to Marine One, the president's helicopter, for the brief ride to the storm-damaged area. Mr. Obama gestured to Mr. Christie to board the helicopter first.
The tour of the area was expected to last about an hour
- Michael D. Shear 
 1:26 P.M. | Bloomberg to Speak at News Conference 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is scheduled to update New Yorkers on the storm recovery efforts at 1:30 p.m.
Watch live video of the news conference on nytimes.com or in the Top News sections of New York Times mobile apps.
- The New York Times 
 1:26 P.M. | Air Force One Lands in Atlantic CIty 
Air force One lands in AC twitter.com/wendyruderman/
- Wendy Ruderman (@wendyruderman) October 31, 2012
President Obama touched down in Atlantic City shortly after 1 p.m. to begin his assessment tour of New Jersey with Gov. Chris Christie.
- Wendy Ruderman 
 1:11 P.M. | New Jersey Power Plant Ends 'Alert' 
With Hurricane Sandy's surge receding, the Oyster Creek nuclear plant, in Lacey Township, N.J., ended its "alert" at 3:52 a.m. on Wednesday and returned to normal operations, meaning a shutdown for refueling that began a week before the storm.
The plant, about 60 miles east of Philadelphia, had declared an alert, the second lowest of the four-level emergency ranking established by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, when the water level rose in its cooling water intake structure. Had the level risen farther, it might have submerged the pumps that pull in cooling water, forcing the operators to resort to alternate methods of cooling. 
But water levels did not rise high enough to prevent the normal functioning of plant equipment, according to Exelon, the plant operator. 
At one point, the high-voltage grid failed and the plant's two emergency diesel generators started up to provide power, but a grid connection has been re-established, according to Entergy. 
 The storm disrupted the grid at several reactors and forced their shutdown, but only Oyster Creek reached the "alert" stage, a status that requires notification of various government agencies but no public action. 
- Matthew Wald 
 12:55 P.M. | Cellphone Calls Continue to Fail 
WASHINGTON - Cellphone calls in the Northeast region are continuing to fail because one-quarter of the transmission sites in areas ravaged by Hurricane Sandy were knocked out and many of those are not expected to come back online for several days at least, government officials say.
The Federal Communications Commission also said "a small number" of 911 service centers - the sites that receive emergency calls and link them with first responders - also were out of service after the storm, the second time in recent months that 911 service has experienced weather-related failures. Many emergency calls were rerouted, officials said, to call centers that survived the storm.
"Our assumption is that communication outages could get worse before they get better," Julius Genachowski, the F.C.C. chairman, told reporters in a conference call Tuesday afternoon. "I want to emphasize that the storm is not over," he said referring to the weather and the facilities.
Verizon said Wednesday that 6 percent of its cell sites remained down in storm-affected areas, although all of its switching and data centers "are functioning normally." T-Mobile issued a statement saying that roughly 20 percent of its network in New York City is out of service, as is up to 10 percent of its network in Washington. 
AT&T declined to specify the status of its systems on Wednesday. All of the companies said they were working to assess and repair the damaged networks.
Most of the emergency calls that were affected by the storm were rerouted to other 911 service centers, Mr. Genachowski said, but a portion of those came into the new centers without electronic location information, which tells the 911 operator where the call originated, causing public safety officials to rely on callers for details about where an emergency was occurring.
F.C.C. officials declined to identify where the affected 911 centers were located, or which phone companies were responsible for servicing them.
Roughly one-quarter of the residents of the 10 states that were affected by Hurricane Sandy also lost cable television and broadband Internet service, killing most or all of the connections that millions of consumers were relying on for information.
 The F.C.C. is currently in the middle of a formal inquiry into the causes of widespread outages of 911 networks in June resulting from the derecho, a violent wind-and-thunder storm.
- Edward Wyatt 
 1:05 P.M. | A Relief Offer From Iran, With Possible Strings Attached 
TEHRAN - Iranian aid workers are at the ready to go to New York to assist victims of Hurricane Sandy, the head of Iran's Red Crescent Organization said Wednesday. 
"We are ready to help the flood-stricken people of America," Mahmud Mozaffar, who leads the organization, told the semiofficial Fars News Agency. "If American authorities agree, we can send our rescuers with equipment and tools to American cities in the shortest period of time."
 Dealing regularly with floods and earthquakes, the Red Crescent is experienced in providing immediate assistance following disasters.But according to documents disclosed by WikiLeaks, American officials suspect some Red Crescent employees operate as spies when providing help in other countries. Read more.
- Thomas Erdbrink 
 1:01 P.M. | Subway Service Likely Thursday North of Midtown Manhattan 
The M.T.A. has not yet released details about which subway lines will run on Thursday, and where they will go. But Joseph Lhota, the agency's chairman, suggested that subway service would operate north of Midtown Manhattan. The agency is waiting for power to be restored in parts of Manhattan beneath Midtown before it can bring trains back into that area. Mr. Lhota said he would provide more details about Thursday's service plans after the governor's news conference.
Mr. Lhota said the M.T.A. was losing about $18 million in revenue each day that service is suspended.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:50 P.M. | Cuomo Paints Dire Power Picture on Long Island 
In Westchester, power restoration "is going to depend on where you are," Governor Cuomo said. "But I believe it is going to be coming on earlier in Westchester" than in Long Island, which the governor called the worst situation in the state in terms of power. "The substations on the south side of the island have been destroyed," Mr. Cuomo said, and he added that it was difficult to find enough transportation to bring in workers from outside regions who can assist with the Long Island recovery effort.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:49 P.M. | Climate Change a Topic in Storm's Wake 
Climate change, absent from this year's presidential contest, has come front and center during this briefing on Hurricane Sandy recovery. Senator Schumer is criticizing politicians who do not discuss the issue of global warming. "I don't think the federal government has done enough," he said. "I think there are a group of people in Washington who have denied the truth. I think there is a relationship between these once-in-a-lifetime storms we experience every couple of years and what's going on in the atmosphere."
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:42 P.M. | Cuomo Says Area Vulnerable to Extreme Storms 
Mr. Cuomo is sounding a sober note about the possibility of more extreme-weather situations in the New York City region. "Climate change is a reality," the governor said. "Given the frequency of these extreme weather situations we have had - and I believe it is an increased frequency - for us to sit here today and say this is a once-in-a-generation, and it's not going to happen again, I think would be short-sighted."
The governor said that New York must "anticipate more of these extreme weather-type situations in the future," and he said that elected officials had a responsibility to think about new designs, or new techniques, to prevent similar damage to the region's infrastructure in the face of future storms.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:34 P.M. | Schumer Says Federal Government Response Is Critical 
Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat, is offering a robust defense of the federal government's role to finance and assist with the recovery from Hurricane Sandy. "There are some in Washington who say we shouldn't do this," the senator said, seemingly a subtle dig at politicians who have criticized the taxpayer money spent for federal disaster relief. "This is one of the biggest disasters to have ever struck this state, and even this country," Mr. Schumer said. "The federal response has to measure that scope, and be equal to that scope. We cannot cut corners or count nickels and dimes."
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:12 P.M. | Thousands Stranded in Hoboken 
In Hoboken, N.J., a city of 50,000 people across the Hudson River from Manhattan, local officials issued dire warnings about thousands of people stranded by flooding, and the National Guard began moving in on Wednesday morning to try to rescue them.
"Keep an eye out, go down to the lowest possible floor, but do not go outside," the city said on its Facebook page. "Signal to get their attention."
When the storm surge hit, the Hudson River breached its banks on the north as well as the south of the city. Water poured into the low ground on the west side. As of Wednesday morning, many streets in Hoboken were still under water.
Observer Highway, the exit from the south end of town, was still impassable for most vehicles.
The ShopRite parking lot on Clinton Street was under water, as were many of the lower floors of recently developed luxury rental buildings.
Parking lots on the north end, where bus and taxi companies store their vehicles, had two or more feet of water, and some vehicles were bobbing. On several residential streets, parked cars were akimbo after being washed up on sidewalks during the storm.
- Julia Preston 
 12:28 P.M. | Cuomo Focuses on Offering Praise 
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is calm today. He disclosed the big news - that the subways in New York City would be restored on a limited basis on Thursday - with little fanfare. And he has spent much of his time congratulating first responders and soberly discussing the efforts by electrical utilities to bring thousands of workers into the downstate area to help restore power to millions of blacked-out customers.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:24 P.M. | Christie Cancels Halloween 
By executive order, there shall be no Halloween in New Jersey today.
Gov. Chris Christie signed an edict this morning "postponing Halloween celebrations across New Jersey" until Monday.
That means no official celebrations, and no candy-seeking either.
The downed trees and power lines and other damage from the storm and the emergency work being done across the state, Mr. Christie said in a statement, makes it "unsafe and imprudent to participate in traditional celebrations, such as trick-or-treat walks."
"I've taken this action to minimize additional risks to lives and the public safety as we begin the process of rebuilding and recovering from Hurricane Sandy," Mr. Christie said.
Local officials, the governor added, are "advised to notify and encourage their communities and residents to delay any planned celebrations" until Monday.
- Andy Newman 
 12:23 P.M. | Limited Subway Service to Return Thursday 
The subway will begin limited service in New York City on Thursday, supplemented by buses between Manhattan and Brooklyn. There will be no subway service below 34th Street in Manhattan because of a lack of electricity. Three of the subway's seven East River tunnels have been pumped out.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:22 P.M. | Limited Commuter Rail Service to Return 
Metro-North and Long Island Rail Road will begin limited commuter rail service at 2 p.m. on Wednesday, Governor Cuomo has announced.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:21 P.M. | Cuomo Praises Obama on Storm Response 
President Obama, who is touring New Jersey with Gov. Chris Christie today, also received praise from Mr. Cuomo. "President Obama has been on top of the situation, he has been very informed, I have spoken to him several times myself," Mr. Cuomo said.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 12:20 P.M. | Cuomo Returns From Tour of Storm-Damaged Areas 
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo opened his noon briefing by congratulating the first responders across the state. He is just back from a helicopter tour of damaged areas; he was joined by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, and the chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Joseph J. Lhota.
- Michael M. Grynbaum 
 11:57 A.M. | Gridlock Could Get Worse, Traffic Expert Says 
 As some New Yorkers still struggled to reach their destinations amid the gridlock of Wednesday morning, the city's reigning traffic expert delivered a disquieting reminder: It could get worse.
"I think the worst is yet to come as more and more people get to work and some of the electricity is turned on in Lower Manhattan," said Samuel I. Schwartz, a former city traffic commissioner known as "Gridlock Sam." "We're not seeing the full complement of people yet."
Major crossings like the George Washington and Verrazano-Narrows Bridges remained snarled; many waiting commuters were bypassed by city buses, which often could not accommodate any more passengers; and others chose to walk or bike over bridges rather than suffer the indignity of a slow crawl into Manhattan. On social media, some riders reported that buses had been rerouted substantially from their typical routes.
Mr. Schwartz called the nightmarish traffic situation "the equivalent of a subway strike, with several of our major tunnels closed." (The Brooklyn-Battery, Queens-Midtown and Holland Tunnels remained closed on Wednesday.)
The only analogous traffic episode he could recall was a storm that occurred during a transit strike more than 30 years ago. In that episode, Mr. Schwartz directed some tunnels to run only as outbound lanes. This time, the same option is not available with the flooded tunnels.
Still, transportation advocates said the city could be doing more. Paul Steely White, the executive director of Transportation Alternatives, called for high-occupancy vehicle rules that would ban private cars from entering Manhattan at certain points unless they carried at least two passengers. (The city issued similar rules during the transit strike of 2005.)
Mr. White also suggested temporary bike lanes, signaled by orange cones, in areas without clearly marked lanes. And particularly in areas without fully working lights, he said, the speed limit should be reduced to 20 miles per hour.
Messages left for the city's Transportation Department were not immediately returned.
Mr. White also noted that the city's bike-share program, which was scheduled to begin last summer but was delayed until next year, would have been an essential resource on days like this. "It would definitely be in full use," he said. 
Some relief, at least, could come for railroad commuters. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority said some limited Metro-North Railroad service could return as soon as Thursday. The authority also said it would provide a more fulsome update on system-wide service restoration efforts by midday on Wednesday.
- Matt Flegenheimer 
 12:07 P.M. | In New Jersey, Some Power Back but Much Work Remains 
The biggest utility that serves northern New Jersey is still trying to restore the main lines that send power to the areas around several cities after getting electricity flowing to Newark again, company officials said Wednesday.
The company, Public Service Electric and Gas, first must repair the equipment that carries power from the regional grid to substations around the state before crews can engage in the "hand-to-hand combat" of determining where overhead wires are down and which customers have lost power, said Ralph A. LaRossa, president of the utility.
Mr. LaRossa said the company had "re-energized" Elizabeth and Hoboken and parts of Jersey City. He said that even though power had been restored to Newark, including to the airport, up to 40 percent of the customers there were still in the dark for various reasons. 
Many hospitals, including St. Barnabas, St. Joseph and the main hospitals in East Orange and Englewood, also were back on the grid, Mr. LaRossa said.
The developments have helped reduce the number of customers without power to about 900,000 from a peak of roughly 1.5 million, he said. But he said the damage caused to switches and substations by the tidal surge would take days to repair.
Assessing just which neighborhoods and homes need new poles and wires is in "the category of hand-to-hand combat that we won't really understand until we get these major assets back in service," Mr. LaRossa said.
"Until the switching stations feed the substations," he continued, "we don't really have the ability to say, 'Oh, Mr. and Mrs. Smith's house is out because of a tree on their line.'"
The flooding was the unforeseen part of Hurricane Sandy's impact on the electric system, said Ralph Izzo, chairman of the utility's parent company.
He said that the winds whipping around the north side of the eye of the hurricane did the most damages to overhead wires in the northern part of the state, particularly Bergen and Passaic Counties.
Mr. Izzo said the company was still seeking more crews from out of state to help with the repair work and hoped that some that had committed to work elsewhere would now be freed up to go to New Jersey.
- Patrick McGeehan 
 12:10 P.M. | U.S. Death Toll Rises to 59 
The storm is blamed for at least 59 deaths in the United States, including 22 in New York City. Here is a state-by-state breakdown, according to reporting from The Associated Press.

        
New York: 29
        
Pennsylvania: 7
        
New Jersey: 6
        
West Virginia: 5
        
Connecticut: 3
        
Ohio: 2
        
Virginia: 2
        
Maryland: 2
        
North Carolina: 2
        
New Hampshire: 1
- The New York Times 
 11:53 A.M. | Commuters Tell Us Their Woes 
As New Yorkers walked, biked, took to their scooters, drove in bumper to bumper to bumper traffic, shared taxis and squeezed into busses this morning, we asked them to tell us their commute stories on Twitter. Below, a selection of their mostly exasperated responses.
our co-worker's Nightmare Commute: Escape from Brooklyn: 8 blocks + 1.5 hrs = #AbsolutelyNoWhere(exit cab-walk back home-pj's on) #tellNYT
- randi jccnyc (@randijccnyc) October 31, 2012
#tellNYT line of cars to BK bridge extends length of Clinton Street (including a coned truck)
- Sasha S (@notsashaobama) October 31, 2012
@nytimes My total commute time from Astoria was approximately 2 hours and 15 minutes. I should have just walked across! #tellNYT
- Rainer Coloma (@RainerColoma) October 31, 2012
@lexinyt Lucky I was able to walk to work. Best part? No traffic to deal with and brisk, fresh air. Walking is underrated. #TellNYT
- Jason Chan (@jbchan) October 31, 2012
@nytmetro I made the call to turn around right before the BQE exit because cars were not moving. Will try again later today. #tellNYT
- RaquelCayre(@RaquelCayre) October 31, 2012
#tellNYT got on M15 at 79th St at 9:00... It's 10:40 and we're only at 57th St. Good thing it's free.
- michele fuchs (@chelfish7) October 31, 2012
@nytimes#tellNYT buses were overflowing in Manhattan and traffic was getting nowhere fast. Walked to midtown.
- Liz Lloyd (@LizLloyd) October 31, 2012
On the SelectService M15 & crawling down 2nd Ave. traffic better after 59th st bridge. Will have to walk to Bklyn from Houston tho #tellNYT
- Nuree Choe (@nureechoe) October 31, 2012
@nytmetro Yes: 18 hours from SF to NYC via Philly. Bus, plane, plane, car - and no train. #tellNYT
- TrustMeI'mAScientist (@TrustMeScience) October 31, 2012
We are continuing to gather responses throughout the day and into the evening commute. 
See an updating selection of them here.
- The New York Times 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); WEATHER (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (76%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (76%); CITIES (76%); TROPICAL STORMS (74%); DROUGHT (74%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (84%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); ANDREW CUOMO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2012

 
