

201 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: In Face of Skeptics, Experts Affirm Climate Peril

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN and JOHN M. BRODER; Andrew C. Revkin reported from New York, and John M. Broder from Washington.

 BODY:
Just two years ago, a United Nations panel that synthesizes the work of hundreds of climatologists around the world called the evidence for global warming ''unequivocal.''
 But as representatives of about 200 nations converge in Copenhagen on Monday to begin talks on a new international climate accord, they do so against a background of renewed attacks on the basic science of climate change.
 The debate, set off by the circulation of several thousand files and e-mail messages stolen from one of the world's foremost climate research institutes, has led some who oppose limits on greenhouse gas emissions, and at least one influential country, Saudi Arabia, to question the scientific basis for the Copenhagen talks. 
 The uproar has threatened to complicate a multiyear diplomatic effort already ensnared in difficult political, technical and financial disputes that have caused leaders to abandon hopes of hammering out a binding international climate treaty this year. 
 In recent days, an array of scientists and policy makers have said that nothing so far disclosed -- the correspondence and documents include references by prominent climate scientists to deleting potentially embarrassing e-mail messages, keeping papers by competing scientists from publication and making adjustments in research data -- undercuts decades of peer-reviewed science.
 Yet the intensity of the response highlights that skepticism about global warming persists, even as many scientists thought the battle over the reality of human-driven climate change was finally behind them. 
 On dozens of Web sites and blogs, skeptics and foes of greenhouse gas restrictions take daily aim at the scientific arguments for human-driven climate change. The stolen material was quickly seized upon for the questions it raised about the accessibility of raw data to outsiders and whether some data had been manipulated. 
 An investigation into the stolen files is being conducted by the University of East Anglia, in England, where the computer breach occurred. Rajendra K. Pachauri, chairman of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, has also said he will look into the matter. At the same time, polls in the United States and Britain suggest that the number of people who doubt that global warming is dangerous or caused by humans has grown in recent years. 
 Politics, ideology and economic interests interlace the debate, and the stakes on both sides are high. If scientific predictions about global warming's effects are correct, inaction will lead at best to rising social, economic and environmental disruption, at worst to a calamity far more severe. If the forecasts are wrong, nations could divert hundreds of billions of dollars to curb greenhouse gas emissions at a time when they are struggling to recover from a global recession.
 Yet the case for human-driven warming, many scientists say, is far clearer now than a decade ago, when the skeptics included many people who now are convinced that climate change is a real and serious threat.
 Even some who remain skeptical about the extent or pace of global warming say that the premise underlying the Copenhagen talks is solid: that warming is to some extent driven by greenhouse gases spewing into the atmosphere from human activities like the burning of fossil fuels and deforestation. 
 Roger A. Pielke Sr., for example, a climate scientist at the University of Colorado who has been highly critical of the United Nations climate panel and who once branded many of the scientists now embroiled in the e-mail controversy part of a climate ''oligarchy,'' said that so many independent measures existed to show unusual warming taking place that there was no real dispute about it. Moreover, he said, ''The role of added carbon dioxide as a major contributor in climate change has been firmly established.''
 The Copenhagen conference itself reflects increasing acceptance of the scientific arguments: the negotiations leading to the talks were conducted by high-ranking officials of the world's governments rather than the scientists and environment ministers who largely shaped the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. Late last week, President Obamachanged the date of his visit to Copenhagen to Dec. 18, the last day of the talks. 
 For many, a 2007 report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was a marker of a shift in the global warming debate. In it, the panel -- a volunteer network of hundreds of scientists from many disciplines who meet periodically to review climate studies and translate the results into language useful to policy makers -- concluded that no doubt remained that human-caused warming was under way and that, if unabated, it would pose rising risks. 
 Over the last several decades, other reviews, by the National Academy of Sciences and other institutions, have largely echoed the panel's findings and said the remaining uncertainties should not be an excuse for inaction. 
 The panel's report was built on two decades of intensive scientific study of climate patterns. 
 Greenhouse gases warm the planet by letting in sunlight and blocking the escape of some of the resulting heat. ''The physics of the greenhouse effect is so basic that instead of asking whether it would happen, it makes more sense to ask what on earth could make it not happen,'' said Spencer Weart, a physicist and historian. ''So far, nobody has been able to come up with anything plausible in that line.''
 The atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gases released by humans has risen rapidly in the last century, along with industrialization and electricity use. Carbon dioxide from burning of coal, oil and natural gas is the most potent of the greenhouse gases because it can persist in the atmosphere for a century or more.
 Methane -- from landfills, livestock and leaking pipes, tanks and wells -- has recently been found to be a close second. And these gases not only have a heating effect, but also cause evaporation of water from sea and soil, producing water vapor, another powerful heat-trapping gas.
 In reaching its conclusion, the climate panel relied only partly on temperature data like that collected by the scientists at the Climatic Research Unit at the University of East Anglia, whose circulated e-mail correspondence set off the current uproar. It also considered a wide range of data from other sources, including measurements showing the retreat of glaciers in mountain ranges around the world, changes in the length and character of the seasons, heating of the oceans and marked retreats of sea ice in the Arctic. 
 Since 1979, satellites have provided another check on surface temperature measurements. Strong disagreements about how to interpret the satellite data were largely resolved after the Bush administration began a review in which competing research groups worked out some of their differences.
 Science is about probability, not certainty. And the persisting uncertainties in climate science leave room for argument. What is a realistic estimate of how much temperatures will rise? How severe will the effects be? Are there tipping points beyond which the changes are uncontrollable? 
 Even climate scientists disagree on many of these questions. But skeptics have been critical of the data assembled to show that warming is occurring and the analytic methods that climate scientists use, including mathematical models used to demonstrate a human cause for warming and project future trends.
 Both sides also have at times been criticized for overstatement in characterizing the scientific evidence. The contents of the stolen e-mail messages and documents have given fresh ammunition to the skeptics' camp.
 The Climatic Research Unit's role as a central aggregator of temperature and other climate data has also made it a target. One widely discussed file extracted from the unit's computers, presumed to be the log of a researcher named Ian Harris, recorded his years of frustration in trying to make sense of disparate data and described procedures -- or ''fudge factors,'' as he called them -- used by scientists to eliminate known sources of error. 
 The research in question concerned attempts to chart past temperature changes by studying tree rings and other indirect indicators, an area of research that has long been fraught with disputes. An influential study that drew in part on the British data was challenged in 2003. In 2006, a review by the National Academy of Sciences concluded, with some reservations, that ''an array of evidence'' supported the broad thrust of the research.
 To skeptics, the purloined files suggest a conspiracy to foist an expensive policy agenda on the nations of the world and to keep inconsistent data from the public.
 ''If we were arguing about archaeology then people could hoard their data,'' said Stephen McIntyre, a blogger and retired Canadian mining consultant who since 2003 has investigated climate data, sometimes finding errors. ''But I don't think the public has any time for that'' in the climate debate.
 Many scientists, however, deny that any important data was held back and say that the e-mail messages and documents will in the end prove merely another manufactured controversy. 
 ''There will remain after the dust settles in this controversy a very strong scientific consensus on key characteristics of the problem,'' John Holdren, President Obama's science adviser, told a Congressional hearing last week. ''Global climate is changing in highly unusual ways compared to long experienced and expected natural variations.''
 Whichever view prevails, the questions will undoubtedly linger well after the negotiators who are trying to work out the complex issues that still stand in the way of an international climate treaty leave Copenhagen. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Dec. 7 about the scientific evidence supporting global warming overstated the level of certainty expressed in a 2007 report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a network of scientists, that human-caused warming was under way and, if unabated, would pose rising risks. The panel said that most warming since 1950 was ''very likely'' caused by humans, not that there was ''no doubt.'' The article also misidentified the temperature data cited by a scientist at the University of East Anglia's Climatic Research Unit who had expressed frustration in a log about trying to make sense of disparate data. The data was direct measurements of temperature, not indirect indicators like the study of tree rings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A globe hung at a conference center in Copenhagen where climate change is to be discussed.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHAN SPANNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A1)
 Negotiations by high-ranking government officials prepared the way for the United Nations conference in Copenhagen.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHAN SPANNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A10) CHART: Evidence of a Warming Planet: A 2007 report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reviewed multiple reconstructions of temperature over the past 1,300 years (below) based on ice cores, tree rings and other indirect measurements. The panel concluded that evidence for global warming was ''unequivocal.''(Source: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (92%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); COMPUTER CRIME (76%); SCIENCE POLICY (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



202 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: Data Mother Lode

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
A big pile of city crime reports is not all that useful. But what if you could combine that data with information on bars, sidewalks and subway stations to find the safest route home after a night out? 
 In Washington, a Web site called Stumble Safely makes that possible. It is one example of the kind of creativity that cities are hoping to mobilize by turning over big chunks of data to programmers and the public. 
 Many local governments are figuring out how to use the Internet to make government data more accessible. The goal is to spawn useful Web sites and mobile applications -- and perhaps even have people think differently about their city and its government. 
 ''It will change the way citizens and government interact, but perhaps most important, it's going to change the way elected officials and civil servants deliver programs, services and promises,'' said Gavin Newsom, the mayor of San Francisco, which is one of the cities leading the way in releasing government data to Web developers. ''I can't wait until it challenges and infuriates the bureaucracy.'' 
 Advocates of these open-data efforts say they can help citizens figure out what is going on in their backyards and judge how their government is performing.
 But programmers have had trouble getting their hands on some data. And some activists and software developers wonder whether historically reticent governments will release data that exposes problems or only information that makes them look good. 
 It is too early to say whether releasing city data will actually make civil servants more accountable, but it can clearly be useful. Even data about mundane things like public transit and traffic can improve people's lives when it is packaged and customized in an accessible way -- a situation that governments themselves may not be equipped to realize. 
 A Web site called CleanScores, for instance, tracks restaurant inspection scores in various cities and explains each violation. After School Special combines data from San Francisco schools, libraries and restaurants so parents can plan after-school activities and see how children's nutritional options compare by neighborhood. And Trees Near You, available for the iPhone, lets people identify trees on New York streets. 
 By releasing data in easy-to-use formats, cities and states hope that people will create sites or applications that use it in ways City Hall never would have considered. 
 San Francisco recently unveiled DataSF, a Web clearinghouse of raw government data that the public can download. The data sets include seismic hazard zones, street sweeping schedules and campaign finance filings. New York City's Data Mine includes directories of sidewalk cafes, property values, horseback riding trails and historic houses. 
 Washington was a leader in releasing its data, and the federal government is doing it too at Data.gov. 
 Much of this data has always been publicly available, but until recently it has been almost impossible to find. Getting hold of it might have required tenacity, drive and endless phone calls. 
 The push to publicize government data goes as far back as the 1960s, but technology has made it possible for people to use the data in ways that would not have been possible even a year ago, said Eric Gundersen, president of Development Seed, the Washington company that created Stumble Safely. The company builds data and map applications for international development programs. 
 ''The timing now with the open data movement is really critical because there are a lot of open-source tools that really make that data usable,'' Mr. Gundersen said. These include the mapping tool he used to build Stumble Safely and also a site for the United States Agency for International Development that maps public health clinics. 
 Some activists are skeptical that governments will release politically risky data that could show that people are not doing their jobs. Mayor Newsom said he wants to release all kinds of data, and said he would not be surprised if ''people who love to hate their mayor'' create an application that maps his public schedule, to bolster their cases about which parts of town he neglects. 
 There is also the concern that people might misinterpret what the data is telling them.
 ''In the most basic of forms, with regard to crime stats and unemployment numbers, these kinds of bulletin boards are very useful,'' said Saul Bloom, executive director of Arc Ecology, an environmental nonprofit group, who has been an activist in San Francisco for three decades. ''But on detailed data dealing with very complicated material, you really have to know what you're looking for in order to distinguish between good data and junk data.'' 
 Mr. Bloom also worries that cities could manipulate data to gloss over things like unemployment rates by neighborhood. 
 Governments are trying to make data openness a more open process itself by asking people to vote for data sets they want to be released. In New York, for example, people have requested data on school violence, public restroom locations and bicycle accidents. 
 Still, asking for the data is often not enough. Software developers in New York have been unsuccessful in getting data feeds of pedestrian and bicyclist injuries and fatalities from the Police Department, said Noel Hidalgo, who is director of technology innovation for the New York State Senate and has been working with developers on building city-data applications. He envisions applications that overlay accident information on city bike maps. 
 Paul J. Browne, a deputy commissioner of the New York City Police Department, said it releases information about individual accidents to journalists and others who request it, but would not provide software developers with a regularly updated feed. ''We provide public information, not data flow for entrepreneurs,'' he said. 
 There have been other scuffles over who has the right to data. Routesy, an iPhone application, uses data from San Francisco's Municipal Transportation Agency to show train and bus schedules and locate stations on a map. It stopped working for a while because a private contractor working with the agency wanted to charge a licensing fee for the information. The agency now requires its contractor, NextBus, to make the data freely available. 
 There is evidence that governments' attitude toward publicizing data is changing. Two years ago, when a Web design and research firm called Stamen Design started a Web site, Crimespotting, that mapped crime data for Oakland, Calif., the city cut off access to the data a week after the site went up. 
 Bob Glaze, the city's chief technology officer, said the frequent data requests from the site were disrupting the city's own crime site. The city eventually changed its mind. And in August, Stamen's designers unveiled a San Francisco version of Crimespotting with Mayor Newsom at their side.
 Some government leaders are making data disclosure an official policy. Mayor Newsom signed an executive order saying city data should be released, and the White House is about to publish a directive expected to give similar instructions to federal agencies.
 San Francisco, New York and Washington have all organized contests to encourage software developers to create applications with their data. And the developers are using the data to build businesses. Stamen, for example, uses Crimespotting to show potential clients what it could create for them. Other firms are selling the iPhone apps they have built. 
 The cities, meanwhile, are to some degree using developers to provide citizens with a service so they do not have to. 
 ''We are increasingly governing in a time when the demand for services exceeds our resources,'' said Aneesh Chopra, chief technology officer of the United States. If the contests ''spur dozens of innovative applications,'' he said, ''then we've essentially achieved a policy objective at virtually no cost.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric Gundersen is president of Development Seed, which created the two Web sites shown below about Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DC Bikes, which shows bike paths in the Washington area, and Stumble Safely, which shows the safest way to get home from bars at night there, were both developed using government data. (pg.B1)
 Stamen Design put together the San Francisco Crimespotting site using information from the city's police department. (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEB SITES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DATA MINING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (76%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); MAYORS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (67%); RESTAURANT INSPECTION & LICENSING (67%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



203 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DRIVEN TO DISTRACTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3792 words

HEADLINE: Promoting the Car Phone, Despite Risks

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
Martin Cooper, who developed the first portable cellphone, recalled testifying before a Michigan state commission about the risks of talking on a phone while driving.
 Common sense, said Mr. Cooper, a Motorola engineer, dictated that drivers keep their eyes on the road and hands on the wheel.
 Commission members asked Mr. Cooper what could be done about risks posed by these early mobile phones.
 ''There should be a lock on the dial,'' he said he had testified, ''so that you couldn't dial while driving.'' 
 It was the early 1960s. 
 Long before cellphones became common, industry pioneers were aware of the risks of multitasking behind the wheel. Their hunches have been validated by many scientific studies showing the dangers of talking while driving and, more recently, of texting.
 Despite the mounting evidence, the industry built itself into a $150 billion business in the United States largely by winning over a crucial customer: the driver.
 For years, it has marketed the virtues of cellphones to drivers. Indeed, the industry originally called them car phones and extolled them as useful status symbols in ads, like one from 1984 showing an executive behind the wheel that asked: ''Can your secretary take dictation at 55 MPH?''
 ''That was the business,'' said Kevin Roe, a telecommunications industry analyst since 1993. Wireless companies ''designed everything to keep people talking in their cars.'' 
 They succeeded. The federal government estimated in 2007 that 11 percent of drivers were talking on their phones at any given time. But that success has come at a cost. Researchers at Harvard have estimated that, even seven years ago, drivers using cellphones were causing 2,600 fatal crashes a year in the United States and 570,000 accidents that resulted in a range of injuries, from minor to serious. 
 And studies show that a driver talking on a cellphone is four times likelier to crash and that using a hands-free device does not eliminate the risk.
 The industry notes that the mobile device has moved well beyond its origins as a car phone and argues that research on the dangers of distracted driving is inconclusive, even as wireless companies have spent millions on campaigns to educate drivers. 
 But the industry's chief spokesman, Steve Largent, acknowledged in recent interviews that those efforts have fallen short. He said the companies plan to do more, particularly in light of the explosion of text messaging, which they say poses a profoundly serious risk. 
 The CTIA, the industry's trade group, supports legislation banning texting while driving. It has also changed its stance on legislation to ban talking on phones while driving -- for years, it opposed such laws; now it is neutral.
 ''This was never something we anticipated,'' said Mr. Largent, head of the CTIA, adding that distracted driving is a growing threat now that more than 90 percent of Americans have cellphones. ''The reality of distracted driving has become more apparent to all of us.''
 Critics of the industry argue that its education efforts over the years provided a weak counterbalance to its encouragement of cellphone use by drivers and to its efforts to fight regulations banning the use of cellphones while driving, or at least requiring drivers to use hands-free devices. 
 The critics -- including safety advocates, researchers and families of crash victims -- say the industry should do more, by placing overt warnings on the packaging and screens of cellphones. 
 The critics also say that even as the industry continues to pay lip service to the risks, companies are marketing a new generation of technology, like GPS applications for smartphones like the iPhone and BlackBerry, and wireless Internet access for cars. A description of one new application for the iPhone reads, ''Maps on iPhone shows you live traffic information, indicating traffic speed along your route in easy-to-read green, red and yellow highlights.''
 Clarence M. Ditlow, executive director at the Center for Auto Safety, a nonprofit advocacy group, was invited last month to speak about distracted driving by the Federal Communications Commission. He told the audience that the cellphone industry was selling a product consumers can use dangerously -- without properly warning them or providing safeguards.
 He added: ''The only questions are: what did they know, and when did they know it?'' 
 Dawn of the Car Phone 
 On Oct. 13, 1983, hundreds of people, including reporters, photographers and TV crews, gathered at Soldier Field in Chicago for a special event. 
 The big draw? A cellphone call.
 An executive from Ameritech, the regional phone company that sponsored the event, sat in the driver's seat of a Chrysler convertible and phoned a great-grandson of Alexander Graham Bell, who was living in Germany.
 That call signified the introduction of mass-market commercial cellphone service, the equivalent of a moon shot for the telecommunications industry. 
 ''The whole idea of placing a call from anywhere -- without wires -- it was amazing,'' said Joe Colson, then a department head at Bell Labs, the prominent research arm of the nation's telephone giants, who was part of the crowd. 
 Their work capped an effort that began decades earlier with radio telephones.
 On its Web site today, AT&T notes that the first mobile telephone call, using that early radio technology, took place in 1946. An accompanying picture shows a trucker, phone to his ear. ''A trucker rolls with one of the first mobile phones,'' the caption says.
 But because of the expense and limits of that radio technology, wireless phones were used early on mostly by truckers and other professional drivers. In the 1960s, AT&T says, New York City had 2,000 customers with these phones, and they typically waited 30 minutes for a call to go through.
 Early innovators, like Mr. Colson, saw new possibilities with the advent of smaller computer chips and batteries, as well as advances in wireless technology to simultaneously carry millions of conversations.
 In ads, the industry promoted car phones as must-have accessories for the elite. In addition, it made sense to market to business people, who could justify the cost of cellphones as a way to make commuting time more productive. 
 In August 1987, an ad in The New York Times for Metro One, a mobile service provider, showed a man talking on a cellphone while driving a sports car with a surfboard in the back. The ad read: ''You can reach all those important clients and still beat the traffic.'' 
 A television commercial for Centel, an early cellphone provider that merged with Sprint, shows a handsome businessman leaving the city in his Jeep while talking on his phone. His wife is on the other end, using her own portable phone, standing in a speedboat. 
 The marketing paid off. Cellphones, including portable models with brick-size batteries, became status symbols, used by Michael Douglas as Gordon Gekko in the 1987 movie ''Wall Street.'' (The first phones, like the one at Soldier Field, cost about $2,800, with installation -- around $6,000 in today's dollars.)
 ''It was like carrying around a Prada bag,'' said Ray DeRenzo, now chief marketing officer for MobiTV, a TV service for phones, who in 1986 worked at Pacific Telesis. 
 In the late 1980s, one company even succeeded in selling tens of thousands of a $16 replica of a car phone called the ''Cellular Phoney.'' The company motto: ''It's not what you own, it's what people think you own.''
 In late 1985, wireless companies had 340,000 customers. Only 10 years later, as the price of phones fell sharply, there were almost 34 million. 
 The industry poured profits back into expanding networks. In just 10 years, the number of cell sites rose to 68,000 in 1995 from 913. The industry planted many cell sites near highways, partly because it was easier than persuading homeowners to put them in neighborhoods, and drivers were crucial customers. 
 Mr. Roe, the longtime industry analyst, estimates that in the 1980s and early '90s, wireless companies got 75 percent or more of their revenue from drivers, a figure that fell below 50 percent by the mid-'90s and is now below 25 percent (the cellphone industry says it does not break out such figures). 
 In the late 1980s, the market remained heavily focused on drivers, even though the original car phones gave way to slimmer and less expensive portable cellphones. 
 Well into the 1990s, Mr. Roe said, wireless companies focused on three questions: ''Can we cover the highways, do we have enough capacity to handle all the people on the highways, and is the signal strong enough?''
 Mr. Colson, the engineer, said he was astonished by the popularity of cellphones, but he and others in the industry rarely paused to wonder about risks. ''Driver distraction?'' he said. ''I mean, come on.'' 
 Troubling Studies
 Mr. Cooper, now 80, and commonly referred to as the father of the cellphone for his early work at Motorola, sensed early on that the technology had risks. 
 ''I'd pass by the exit I was supposed to take because I was talking on the phone,'' he said. Thinking back, he said he was ''absolutely'' aware of potential dangers but did not think roads would become filled with distracted drivers.
 Other early innovators of cellphones said they felt nagging concerns. Bob Lucky, an executive director at Bell Labs from 1982-92, said he knew that drivers talking on cellphones were not focused fully on the road. But he did not think much about it or discuss it and supposed others did not, either, given the industry's booming fortunes. 
 ''If you're an engineer, you don't want to outlaw the great technology you've been working on,'' said Mr. Lucky, now 73. ''If you're a marketing person, you don't want to outlaw the thing you've been trying to sell. If you're a C.E.O., you don't want to outlaw the thing that's been making a lot of money.''
 Revenue for wireless service providers was soaring -- to $16 billion in 1995 from $354 million in 1985. The industry had revenue of $148 billion in 2008.
 One researcher who spoke up about his concerns was quickly shut down. In 1990, David Strayer, a junior researcher at GTE, which later became part of Verizon, noticed more drivers who seemed to be distracted by their phones, and it scared him. He asked a supervisor if the company should research the risks. 
 ''Why would we want to know that?'' Mr. Strayer recalled being told. He said the message was clear: ''Learning about distraction would not be very helpful to the overall business model.''
 Outside the industry, others started raising red flags. In 1984, the AAA urged drivers to park before using their phones. In 1991, the AAA Foundation for Traffic Safety financed a laboratory study that found that drivers talking on cellphones had difficulty responding to challenging situations. 
 In 1997, the Canadian Ministry of Health and other groups helped finance research to determine whether drivers distracted by cellphones were more likely to crash. The researchers' answer: a resounding yes. 
 They found that drivers using cellphones were four times likelier to get into accidents than drivers who were focused entirely on the road. 
 ''This relative risk is similar to the hazard associated with driving with a blood alcohol level at the legal limit,'' the researchers wrote in The New England Journal of Medicine. They said hands-free devices were no safer than hand-held phones because of the distraction that comes from focusing on a conversation, not the road.
 In subsequent years, dozens of researchers also determined that phone use by drivers divides attention, slows reaction time and increases the risks of crashing. Their ranks included Mr. Strayer, who left GTE for academia to research distracted driving. 
 Using a driving simulator at the University of Utah, he showed that drivers distracted by calls miss otherwise obvious sights along a virtual highway and that they face a four times greater crash risk, echoing other studies' findings. 
 The research was not easy for the industry to ignore, particularly given that a wireless company, AT&T, had helped pay for a widely publicized study.
 AT&T paid Harvard researchers to study the economic value created by drivers using cellphones. In 2000, the researchers put that value at $43 billion. But in late 2002, based on an update to the findings, it was those researchers who estimated that distracted drivers using phones also caused 2,600 deaths each year and 570,000 accidents that caused injuries. 
 Similar findings piled up. In 2005, the federal National Highway Traffic Safety Administration published a bibliography of more than 150 scientific papers from the previous eight years about the dangers of cellphone use by drivers. 
 ''It's been a very consistent picture,'' said Chris Monk, a researcher at the agency. ''Frankly, I get a little annoyed that we continue to see studies that investigate the effects of cellphone use on driving, because they all show the same thing, whether you're talking hands-free or not.'' 
 Mixed Messages
 Critics say the wireless carriers have sent mixed messages about the risks posed by drivers using cellphones.
 The industry has resisted legislation to regulate cellphone use and, critics say, it has not warned drivers about dialing and talking as forcefully as it now warns them about texting. 
 Cellphone companies point out that for a decade they have run numerous public service ads, like AT&T's 2001 ''Be Sensible'' campaign, telling customers not to talk while driving through bad weather or heavy traffic. On its Web site, Verizon Wireless cites government recommendations that the safest course is to stay off the phone while driving. 
 The CTIA ran its first distracted-driving campaign in 2000, with the tagline: ''With Wireless, Safety Is Your Most Important Call.'' Its latest slogan: ''On the Road, Off the Phone.'' 
 On its Web site, the CTIA offers safety tips including, ''Do not engage in stressful or emotional conversations that might divert your attention from the road'' and ''Use a hands-free device for convenience and comfort.'' 
 Those warnings do not acknowledge the many studies that show that hands-free devices do not eliminate risks. The industry says the research is inconclusive. One widely cited study, for example, shows that hands-free devices do limit the risk of talking while driving. However, that study, by the Virginia Tech Transportation Institute, also showed that the act of dialing while driving poses serious risks. 
 Cellphone industry leaders also say studies have not shown a link between cellphone use and crashes. But little data exists on the number of crashes caused by drivers using cellphones because police either do not collect such data or started doing so only recently.
 The industry says the number of reported accidents fell to six million in 2007 from 6.7 million a decade earlier -- at the very time cellphone use has soared. Its critics say that the drop reflects the many safety improvements to vehicles and roads and that, besides, fatality rates have stayed fairly constant. 
 Ultimately, the industry has been motivated to educate customers because of good corporate citizenship, not because of research, said Mr. Largent, the head of the CTIA. ''We don't like to see our devices used in a way that puts drivers at risk,'' he said.
 The most aggressive education effort has come in recent months, focused on texting. ''Texting or mobile device usage in acar is an issue on par with drunk driving itself,'' said Daryl Evans, a vice president at AT&T, which has begun adding a sticker that reads ''don't text and drive'' to the screens of nearly all new phones. 
 Verizon Wireless has put up billboards and is running television and radio spots. Last month, Sprint Nextel put out a news release urging customers not to text and drive and urging employees to agree not to do so. The CTIA has started a public service campaign to warn teenagers.
 But why, critics ask, does the industry accept researchers' findings on the dangers of texting when it found their studies lacking on the dangers of dialing or talking on the phone while driving? 
 ''There's probably little difference between making a phone call and texting,'' Mr. Largent conceded. ''If you have to take your eyes off the road, it can't be a good thing.''
 But he said the industry is not taking a position on whether states should ban dialing or talking while driving. ''We're not saying anything about that,'' he said. ''We're going to let our consumers make their voices heard.''
 For critics, it adds up to an effort by the industry over the years to appear responsible without hurting its core business. The companies' warnings, critics argue, have not been loud enough to register (Over the last decade, the percentage of drivers talking on the phone at any given time has doubled, the government estimated). 
 ''The landfill-sized accumulation of studies about the dangers of using these devices while driving should have prompted a much more engaged posture on the part of the industry to be leaders to attempt to rein in this behavior,'' said James E. Katz, the director for the Center for Mobile Communications Studies at Rutgers.
 Other critics go further. ''The real message was: continue to use our product,'' said Mr. Ditlow, from the Center for Auto Safety.
 He and others say a legislative battle in California shows that the industry's actions speak louder than its words.
 The Fight for California
 ''I am at an absolute loss,'' Joe Simitian said, standing at the podium, facing fellow members of a California Assembly subcommittee.
 It was April 23, 2001, the day Mr. Simitian, Democrat of Palo Alto, submitted legislation to require California drivers to use hands-free devices. 
 Mr. Simitian could not understand why major cellphone companies opposed his legislation, even though their educational materials urged drivers to use hands-free devices. 
 He cited such materials published by AT&T, Cingular and Sprint -- companies that opposed the bill. ''When using your Sprint PCS phone in the car, focus on driving, not talking, and use your hands-free kit,'' Mr. Simitian said, reading from Sprint's own materials. ''Failure to follow these instructions may lead to serious personal injury and possibly property damage.'' 
 Mr. Simitian, who seized on the issue after seeing dangerous behavior on the roadways, told his colleagues the legislation merely sought to codify ''the very practices this industry has been promoting for the last several years.''
 Verizon Wireless was the first wireless company to testify. Breaking with the other major companies, as it often has on this issue, it supported Mr. Simitian. Its representative called the Simitian legislation necessary because education was not enough.
 Representatives from AT&T, Sprint and Cingular said their education efforts were working. Their lobbyists added other concerns: research did not show cellphone use as a major cause of accidents; wireless phones should not be singled out from other kinds of distractions like eating; and mobile phones were essential emergency tools. 
 The representative from AT&T said the legislation did not adequately define ''hands-free device.''
 Mr. Simitian saw a contradiction. ''These are the folks who wrote the brochure and now tell us they don't know what a hands-free device is,'' he said.
 The legislation did not make it out of committee, a result Mr. Simitian attributed to heavy company lobbying. In each of the next five years, major wireless companies opposed the same proposal in California, saying education was sufficient. 
 Companies also said they were looking out for consumers. They argued, for instance, that a hands-free law would provide an excuse for police officers to pull over minority drivers. There is ''the very real possibility it will lead to unfair and discriminatory consequences,'' Sprint Nextel wrote in a letter opposing the 2006 bill.
 But that version passed and the law took effect in 2008. 
 The industry's position has since changed. In a recent interview, Mr. Largent conceded that the opposition in California was ''a mistake.'' 
 ''At the time, we were all operating on the science that was before us and the evidence we had,'' he said. 
 Mr. Simitian, now a state senator, finds that position ''disingenuous.''
 ''The science at the time was the science that caused them to publish brochures telling people to use hands-free devices,'' he said. 
 And Mr. Simitian says the industry had ample evidence at the time that its education efforts were not working.
 Mr. Largent conceded recently that the industry's education efforts were inadequate. He added that if people say, '' 'That's not your position 10 years ago,' I say, 'You're right.' This industry continues to evolve. We think it's evolving in the right direction.''
 ''The bottom line is safety. That's our position.'' 
 The Next Wave
 The industry is evolving. It focuses less on marketing the car phone. But some ads promote a new generation of devices for cars. 
 A recent Sprint television ad shows a driver and four passengers in a car. The ad is for a mobile wireless service that allows people to use the Internet not just on phones but also computers. ''Right now, five co-workers are working from the road using a 'Mi-Fi,' a mobile hotspot,'' the voiceover says. One person is checking e-mail, another is streaming music, a third is using Mapquest and two are downloading and revising a presentation, the voice says. 
 Sprint says that despite what the voiceover says, not all five co-workers are actually working. ''Throughout this television commercial, the driver has both hands on the wheel. He is not engaging in any unsafe behavior and is focused on driving,'' Sprint says. The company also says the product's instructions warn about distracted driving. 
 And the newest phones let people do many tasks at once. A recent ad in People magazine for the Nuvifone, sold by AT&T, shows a woman, apparently in the lawn-ornament business, explaining how she got directions from her phone while making a work call. 
 ''I just tapped the address and followed spoken, turn-by-turn directions right to the front door,'' it reads. ''And I was able to take the call about pink palm trees -- while still navigating.'' 
 Mark Siegel, a spokesman for AT&T, said safety is paramount. ''Your first priority in the car is driving safely,'' he said. The marketing for the Nuvifone, he added, is ''not intended to override our position.''
 Driven to Distraction: Articles in this series are examining the dangers of drivers using cellphones and other electronic devices, and efforts to deal with the problem. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A CLOSE RELATIONSHIP: Ads as early as 1985, above, and 1984 promoted the efficiency and cachet of talking on a mobile phone while driving.(A1)
1946: First mobile phone(AT&T WEB SITE)
1984 Western Union cellphone ad
1984 Radio Shack
1985 Cellular One
1990 Ford
2000 Cellular industry's first distracted driving campaign. It was revived in 2004, 2007 and 2009 (above)
ORIGINS: The cellphone era begins in 1983 as Bob Barnett, a phone company executive, makes a call from Chicago. Joe Colson of Bell Labs is at left.
PIONEER: Martin Cooper, who developed the first portable cellphone, warned against dialing and driving.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20)
2002 Freehand car kit ad
2002 Cingular education video recommending not to drive and talk on the cell
2008 Ford Sync system uses voice commands for cellphone calls but requires reading a screen to perform some texting functions
2008 Boost Mobile commercial
2009 Hands-free device Jupiter Jack
 2009 Sprint ad for a Wi-Fi hot spot that can be used in a car (A21) TIMELINE: The Selling of the Car Phone (A20 and A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); DISTRACTED DRIVING (90%); TEXT MESSAGING (89%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (63%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (50%)

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (58%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



204 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: If You Can't Stand the Web Camera, Get Out of the Kitchen

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Chefs and restaurants have become reliable subjects for reality television series. The drama! The conflict! The recipes! So it should not come as a surprise that a campaign is offering diners a peek at a new eatery through a live video feed.
 The campaign is for the D'Amico Kitchen Osteria and Bar, one of 25 restaurants owned and managed by a company called D'Amico & Partners. The restaurant's agency, Brew Creative in Minneapolis, had the idea of piquing the curiosity of would-be customers by installing video cameras in the kitchen.
 The results of what D'Amico Kitchen and the agency refer to as ''culinary voyeurism'' -- well, at least it sounds better than ''voyeuristic cooking'' -- can be watched from 7:30 to 10 p.m. (C.S.T,) on a Web site (damico-kitchen.com). The same live feed is projected into Eden, a courtyard bar and dining area at the Chambers hotel, where it can also be seen by passersby on Hennepin Avenue, a busy downtown thoroughfare.
 The campaign is accompanied by a video blog from the chef, John Occhiato (blog.damico-kitchen.com); the video blog posts are also being posted on the D'Amico Kitchen page on Facebook. 
 There are, in addition, print advertisements, which carry the headline ''A culinary experience this extraordinary should be shared.'' And a billboard offers a similar message: ''Tonight watch our kitchen come alive, live: damico-kitchen.com.''
 The campaign has a thrifty budget that is estimated so far at $40,000 to $50,000. It underlines the increasing popularity of efforts by advertisers to stimulate buzz, or word of mouth, using unconventional measures.
 ''It's a new day of marketing,'' says Richard D'Amico, president and chief executive at D'Amico & Partners. ''Everybody is trying to figure it out.''
 It is also, needless to say, a new day in the restaurant business as consumers worried about their jobs and the course of the economy hunker down at home, cutting back how often they dine out.
 D'Amico Kitchen is ''a different kind of property,'' Mr. D'Amico says, a contemporary Italian eatery intended to be less formal and offer menu items with gentler prices.
 For instance, he describes 24 antipasti ''priced from $8 to $12'' each, adding that the check for a couple of such small plates with a glass of wine could total $30. 
 ''Or you could go for the dining experience,'' he says, ''at $80 to $150 or $200'' per person.
 D'Amico Kitchen is also intended to be significantly different from a well-known restaurant in downtown Minneapolis, D'Amico Cucina, which D'Amico & Partners recently closed. That restaurant had an image as, in the words of a Twin Cities blogger, Chris Kallal, ''old, rich and spendy.'' 
 Mr. D'Amico says: ''What people have traditionally thought of as fine dining is pretty much a dead concept, except maybe in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles and Las Vegas.'' 
 The image that Mr. D'Amico hopes to cultivate for D'Amico Kitchen is meant ''to attract a younger clientele,'' he says, so the campaign is not taking what he refers to as ''the old magazine-put-an-ad-in'' approach.
 ''Dining out is more than just going out to eat,'' Mr. D'Amico says, particularly for that more youthful target audience; they see it as a ''form of entertainment, an experience, not just food.''
 And speaking of entertainment, reality TV, along with cooking shows, has changed ''the way the general public thinks about the restaurant business,'' he adds, compared with 10 or 15 years ago.
 That has paved the way for the live video feeds from the kitchen at D'Amico Kitchen, which started about a month and a half after the restaurant opened. Lipstick cameras were installed to provide the live video.
 There is no audio, to spare viewers the din of a busy restaurant kitchen -- and the epithets that may be uttered when, say, a worker is burned or a server starts an argument with the sous-chef.
 The campaign represents a reunion for Mr. D'Amico and the partners at Brew Creative, Bruce Bildsten and Michelle Fitzgerald. They had worked together when Mr. Bildsten and Ms. Fitzgerald were at Fallon Worldwide in Minneapolis, a unit of the Publicis Groupe.
 ''Richard gave us a call: 'C'mon over; I'm opening a restaurant, I need some advertising,''' Mr. Bildsten, who is also creative director at Brew, recalls. ''Michelle and I went over to meet him and it took about five minutes for us to say, 'Don't think you should do an ad; there's an opportunity to engage people deeper.' ''
 ''People are so into the restaurant business these days, more than ever before,'' Mr. Bildsten says, as evidenced by trends like the growing amount of coverage restaurants are receiving in local media outlets like newspapers.
 So the agency suggested creating content, not just advertising, as a way to ''reach influencers,'' he adds, referring to the consumers to whom other consumers listen when it comes to dining out.
 ''One thought was to do a documentary series about the opening of the restaurant,'' Mr. Bildsten says, but there was not enough time for that. ''So we came up with the idea of putting cameras in the kitchen,'' he adds, ''which is a nice-sized kitchen, with a big staff.''
 There was a proposal to display the live video feed on a billboard, Mr. Bildsten says, but that ran afoul of the City of Minneapolis.
 ''We always thought there'd be an online component'' to the campaign, he adds, so that became the centerpiece as computer users are invited to ''go online and watch it all live.''
 Unlike a reality series, ''it's not like you're going to watch this for hours,'' Mr. Bildsten acknowledges. ''It's an interesting glimpse, that peek behind the curtain.''
 ''We'll probably change it up in the future,'' he adds, to keep it fresh by ''figuring out a different way to do it.''
 In the first days, ''some of the kitchen staff were a little freaked out about it,'' Mr. Bildsten says, so ''we had to have a few sessions to talk it out.''
 Now, for the most part, ''it's like they've forgotten about the cameras,'' he adds, although ''from time to time someone will hold a sign up to a camera that says something funny or tells what dish they're making.'' 
 How much longer will it be before an enterprising marketer pays a kitchen employee to hold a sign up that advertises a brand of cookware, butter or wine?
 Or perhaps a worker with a fondness for vintage commercials will hold a sign up that reads, ''Mama mia, that's a spicy meatball.''
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); PRINT ADVERTISING (70%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (55%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



205 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Report on Sri Lanka Urges New Approach

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: NEW DELHI 

 BODY:
A report on Sri Lanka to be released next week by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee urges a less confrontational approach to that nation, citing strategic American interests in the region. 
 The report says that while the Sri Lankan government has been widely criticized for its handling of the war against the Tamil Tigers, who were fighting for a separate state for the ethnic Tamil minority in northern Sri Lanka, the government has also achieved a measure of progress in resettling the conflict's displaced and rebuilding the war-shattered east of the country. 
 ''With the end of the war, the United States needs to re-evaluate its relationship with Sri Lanka to reflect new political and economic realities,'' says the report, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times. ''While humanitarian concerns remain important, U.S. policy toward Sri Lanka cannot be dominated by a single agenda. It is not effective at delivering real reform, and it shortchanges U.S. geostrategic interests in the region.'' 
 The bipartisan report, which was endorsed by Senator John Kerry, the Democratic chairman of the committee, as well as Senator Richard Lugar, the ranking Republican, is being released as the Obama administration is preparing to announce its new policy on Sri Lanka. It also comes as questions persist about what Western countries can do to influence the government there. 
 Concerns about human rights and humanitarian aid for the people affected by the conflict have dominated the relationship between the United States and Sri Lanka over the past few years as the hard-line government in the capital, Colombo, pressed its military offensive against the Tigers. 
 The tough strategy of Mahinda Rajapaksa, Sri Lanka's president, and his two brothers, Gotabaya and Basil, helped defeat the insurgency in May after more than two decades of war. The rebel group used brutal tactics like the use of child soldiers and female suicide bombers. It was also responsible for the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi, a former prime minister of India who was hoping to return to power, in 1991. 
 Government troops overran a narrow strip of beach where the leaders of the rebel group were pinned down, along with about 300,000 Tamil civilians. Human rights groups have pointed to evidence of an indiscriminate use of heavy weapons by government troops in areas crowded with civilians in the last weeks of fighting. The United Nations documented at least 7,000 civilian deaths in a tally that does not include the last, and probably bloodiest, weeks of fighting. 
 The government also faced pressure to release nearly 300,000 Tamils it had held in closed camps since the end of the war. Officials said the displaced people needed to be screened to weed out fighters, but conditions in the crowded camps deteriorated as the monsoon rains arrived. On Tuesday , the government said the displaced were free to leave, with some limitations. 
 Sri Lanka has resisted calls for an international investigation of its conduct of the war, and has dismissed the demands of the Western countries that have bankrolled much of its humanitarian aid effort as imperialism. 
 Sri Lankan government officials have repeatedly pointed to growing ties between their country and China as a sign that the West's influence there is on the wane. Mr. Rajapaksa, who is running for re-election in January -- and is staking his campaign on the war victory -- has accused foreign aid organizations and Western countries of meddling in Sri Lanka's affairs. 
 More broadly, government officials have expressed dismay at the barrage of criticism they received abroad after the defeat of the Tamil Tigers. Mr. Rajapaksa portrayed the conflict as part of a global fight against terrorism, and the victory over the Tigers as a model for anti-insurgency military campaigns elsewhere. Sri Lankan officials deny that large numbers of civilians were killed by government troops. 
 The United States and other Western countries abstained from a vote at the International Monetary Fund in July to lend $2.6 billion to Sri Lanka. The United States has also curbed military aid because of concerns about human rights abuses in the war against the Tamil Tigers. 
 But Sri Lanka is too important a country to be isolated from the West, the report argues. 
 ''Sri Lanka is located at the nexus of crucial maritime trading routes in the Indian Ocean connecting Europe and the Middle East to China and the rest of Asia,'' the report says. ''The United States, India, and China all share an interest in deterring terrorist activity and curbing piracy that could disrupt maritime trade.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (86%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); CHILD SOLDIERS (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ASSASSINATION (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (50%); BEACHES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (58%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (92%) SRI LANKA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



206 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Push for Deal on Public Health Plan

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama exhorted Senate Democrats on Sunday to put aside their differences and seize their moment in history by passing landmark health legislation. But senators said he did not mention sticky issues like abortion or a new government-run insurance plan.
 Though Mr. Obama gave them no guidance on the question, Senate Democrats on Sunday intensified their yearlong effort to build consensus around some form of a public insurance plan to compete with private insurers. 
 The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, named 10 senators -- five centrists and five liberals -- to seek a compromise. Under a leading proposal, the federal Office of Personnel Management would negotiate with insurers to offer one or more national health plans to individuals, families and small businesses. The personnel office has decades of experience arranging health benefits for federal employees, including members of Congress.
 The push for a deal on the public option indicated the pressure Democrats were feeling to resolve their differences if they hope to pass the bill by their self-imposed deadline of Christmas. On Monday, the Senate plans to take up another explosive issue, restrictions on insurance coverage for abortion.
 In the closed meeting with Senate Democrats, Mr. Obama summarized the achievements of Congress this year and cited evidence that the economy was improving, senators who attended the meeting said. Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, quoted the president as saying that the health care bill was ''the most important social legislation since Social Security.''
 Lawmakers who vote for it will be rewarded in the 2010 elections and by the judgment of the nation in 20, 30 or 40 years, the president said, according to Mr. Baucus.
 Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the assistant Democratic leader, said the president's message was simple: ''He reminded us why we are here. He reminded us why we run for office. And he reminded us how many people are counting on us to come through.'' 
 Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, said Mr. Obama had risen above ''the day-to-day trench warfare of the Senate'' and placed the legislation ''in the sweep of history.'' 
 ''Decades from now,'' the president said, according to Mr. Whitehouse, ''this will be the kind of vote you remember. It will be written in the faces of children and families who are relieved of the burden of anxiety and sorrow.''
 Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said Mr. Obama had emphasized ''the importance of health care reform to our economy.'' But he added, ''the president did not take any questions and did not get into specifics where there are disputes.''
 Mr. Obama's visit came on the seventh day of Senate debate on the legislation. While the floor fight has pitted Democrats against Republicans, the real battle is taking place internally among Democrats.
 Thorny unresolved issues include the proposal for a government-run insurance plan; insurance coverage for abortion; cost-control measures, including the powers of an independent commission to rein in Medicare spending; and requirements for employers to provide health benefits to workers or pay a penalty.
 Mr. Reid has not nailed down the 60 votes he would need to limit debate and move to passage of the health care bill. To offset the possibility that one or more members of the Senate Democratic caucus may break ranks, Mr. Reid and the White House have been wooing the Maine senators, Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins, both Republicans. Mr. Obama met on Saturday in the Oval Office with Ms. Snowe.
 Some Democrats described the president's remarks on Sunday as a pep talk.
 ''It was not about the issues,'' said Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska, a centrist Democrat seeking major changes in the bill. ''For those who have already decided to support the bill, it's helpful to have the president bolster their resolve.''
 The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said Mr. Obama needed support from every Democrat because the bill had ''virtually no appeal to any Republican senator.''
 ''Here we are a few weeks before Christmas, with Democrats trying to squeeze every single one of their members to swallow a pretty bitter pill for the American people,'' Mr. McConnell said.
 At a news conference that echoed last year's presidential race, Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, lit in to Mr. Obama, just as he was meeting with Democrats a few steps away. He said Mr. Obama and the Democrats were plotting a ''takeover of the health care system by the federal government.''
 Senator Reid said it was necessary for senators to work over the weekend to overcome staunch Republican opposition. The Sunday session was only the 30th such meeting since 1861, according to the Senate historical office. Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, said the tactic had backfired on Democrats. ''I've got Reid fatigue,'' Mr. Bond said. ''I just wonder if he will try this stunt next weekend.''
 To attract centrists, Democratic leaders are trying to minimize the role of government in any public plan. But in so doing, they risk alienating liberal Democrats like Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio.
 Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, who opposes creation of a public insurance plan, said he was pleased Mr. Obama did not mention it once on Sunday. Mr. Obama did praise other provisions of the bill that would provide coverage to more than 30 million people, regulate the insurance market and slow the growth of health costs, Mr. Lieberman said.
 The Senate on Sunday rejected two proposed amendments to the health care bill. One, offered by Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, would have limited the tax deductions that health insurance companies could take for compensation paid to top executives.
 The other, by Senator John Ensign, Republican of Nevada, would have limited contingency fees that could be paid to plaintiffs' lawyers in medical malpractice lawsuits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); EVIDENCE (65%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%); HARRY REID (58%); BOB CASEY (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



207 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Cap and Fade

BYLINE: By JAMES HANSEN. 
James Hansen is the author of the forthcoming ''Storms of My Grandchildren: The Truth About the Coming Climate Catastrophe and Our Last Chance to Save Humanity.''

 BODY:
AT the international climate talks in Copenhagen, President Obama is expected to announce that the United States wants to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions to about 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 and 83 percent by 2050. But at the heart of his plan is cap and trade, a market-based approach that has been widely praised but does little to slow global warming or reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. It merely allows polluters and Wall Street traders to fleece the public out of billions of dollars. 
 Supporters of cap and trade point to the 1990 Clean Air Act amendments that capped sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from coal-burning power plants -- the main pollutants in acid rain -- at levels below what they were in 1980. This legislation allowed power plants that reduced emissions to levels below the cap to sell the credit for these excess reductions to other utilities whose emissions were too high, thus giving plant owners a financial incentive to cut back their pollution. Sulfur emissions have been reduced by 43 percent in the two decades since. Great success? Hardly. 
 Because cap and trade is enforced through the selling and trading of permits, it actually perpetuates the pollution it is supposed to eliminate. If every polluter's emissions fell below the incrementally lowered cap, then the price of pollution credits would collapse and the economic rationale to keep reducing pollution would disappear.
 Worse yet, polluters' lobbyists ensured that the clean air amendments allowed existing power plants to be ''grandfathered,'' avoiding many pollution regulations. These old plants would soon be retired anyway, the utilities claimed. That's hardly been the case: Two-thirds of today's coal-fired power plants were constructed before 1975.
 Cap and trade also did little to improve public health. Coal emissions are still significant contributing factors in four of the five leading causes of mortality in the United States -- and mercury, arsenic and various coal pollutants also cause birth defects, asthma and other ailments.
 Yet cap-and-trade schemes are still being pursued in Copenhagen and Washington. (Though I head the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, I'm speaking only for myself.)
 To compound matters, the Congressional carbon cap would also encourage ''offsets'' -- alternatives to emission reductions, like planting trees on degraded land or avoiding deforestation in Brazil. Caps would be raised by the offset amount, even if such offsets are imaginary or unverifiable. Stopping deforestation in one area does not reduce demand for lumber or food-growing land, so deforestation simply moves elsewhere. 
 Once again, lobbyists are providing the real leadership on climate change legislation. Under the proposed law, some permits to pollute would be handed out free; and much of the money actually collected from permits would be used to pay for boondoggles like ''clean coal'' research. The House and Senate energy bills would only assure continued coal use, making it implausible that carbon dioxide emissions would decline sharply.
 If that isn't bad enough, Wall Street is poised to make billions of dollars in the ''trade'' part of cap-and-trade. The market for trading permits to emit carbon appears likely to be loosely regulated, to be open to speculators and to include derivatives. All the profits of this pollution trading system would be extracted from the public via increased energy prices.
 There is a better alternative, one that would be more efficient and less costly than cap and trade: ''fee and dividend.'' Under this approach, a gradually rising carbon fee would be collected at the mine or port of entry for each fossil fuel (coal, oil and gas). The fee would be uniform, a certain number of dollars per ton of carbon dioxide in the fuel. The public would not directly pay any fee, but the price of goods would rise in proportion to how much carbon-emitting fuel is used in their production. 
 All of the collected fees would then be distributed to the public. Prudent people would use their dividend wisely, adjusting their lifestyle, choice of vehicle and so on. Those who do better than average in choosing less-polluting goods would receive more in the dividend than they pay in added costs.
 For example, when the fee reached $115 per ton of carbon dioxide it would add $1 per gallon to the price of gasoline and 5 to 6 cents per kilowatt-hour to the price of electricity. Given the amount of oil, gas and coal used in the United States in 2007, that carbon fee would yield about $600 billion per year. The resulting dividend for each adult American would be as much as $3,000 per year. As the fee rose, tipping points would be reached at which various carbon-free energies and carbon-saving technologies would become cheaper than fossil fuels plus their fees. As time goes on, fossil fuel use would collapse.
 Still need more convincing? Consider the perverse effect cap and trade has on altruistic actions. Say you decide to buy a small, high-efficiency car. That reduces your emissions, but not your country's. Instead it allows somebody else to buy a bigger S.U.V. -- because the total emissions are set by the cap. 
 In a fee-and-dividend system, every action to reduce emissions -- and to keep reducing emissions -- would be rewarded. Indeed, knowing that you were saving money by buying a small car might inspire your neighbor to follow suit. Popular demand for efficient vehicles could drive gas guzzlers off the market. Such snowballing effects could speed us toward a pollution-free world.
 The plans in Copenhagen and Washington have not been finalized. It is not too late to trade cap and trade for an approach that actually works. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL HERTZBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (94%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); DEFORESTATION (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); NITROGEN OXIDES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (76%); LAND DEGRADATION (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); ACID RAIN (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (72%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



208 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: NBC-Comcast Deal Puts Broadcast TV in Doubt

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER; Tim Arango, David Carr and Bill Carter contributed reporting.

 BODY:
From Studio 6B at 30 Rockefeller Center, NBC brought Milton Berle, Jack Parr and Johnny Carson into the nation's living rooms, then broadcast local news to New York City for decades. Last Thursday, it was a stage for a cable takeover as Comcast announced a plan to acquire NBC Universal.
 There, in Studio 6B, a town hall meeting for NBC employees opened with Jeff Zucker, the NBC Universal chief executive, introducing ''our new friends from Philadelphia,'' and closed with a formal welcome to the Comcast family by Ralph Roberts, the cable operator's 89-year-old patriarch. Mr. Roberts received a standing ovation. 
 For employees of the oldest and most storied part of NBC Universal, the broadcast network, one question lingered: will we fit into this cable family? 
 The studios at 30 Rockefeller Plaza -- and shows like ''30 Rock,'' which parodies NBC's corporate culture -- will not be going dark as a result of the deal. But employees inside both the thriving news division and the ailing entertainment division of the National Broadcasting Company still have reason to be anxious about it. 
 At every turn, Comcast has emphasized to its own shareholders that the deal's purpose is to gain control over NBC Universal's fast-growing cable channels. The writer and humorist John Dillon observed Thursday that in the 2,742-word news release about the deal, the broadcast network was not mentioned until word 2,170. There is even talk of changing NBC Universal's name to play down the broadcast association.
 The deal is structured to give Comcast a controlling 51 percent interest, with its partner, General Electric, initially retaining 49 percent. 
 ''Everyone's now talking about NBC as a cable company, and Comcast is a cable company,'' a longtime NBC News staff member said. ''I guess we're wondering, do they like broadcast?''
 On the record, they do. Comcast says NBC and its affiliate structure will remain intact for the time being. All day Thursday, Brian Roberts, the chief executive of Comcast, whose fortunes have come from converting broadcast viewers into cable customers, talked up broadcast as ''an important part of the fabric of America.''
 ''We're very committed to trying to see ways to make it successful,'' he said in an interview on the cable channel CNBC. 
 Later, in a conference call with reporters, the first question was about the viability of broadcast, leading Mr. Roberts to say of NBC, ''I think there's more upside than downside.'' He said Comcast would seek to ''restore it to No. 1.'' Similarly, the G.E. chief executive, Jeffrey Immelt, said on CNBC the same morning that his ''top priority for next year'' is to get NBC back in first place. 
 ''Let's make no mistake, where we are today as a broadcast network is unacceptable,'' he said. ''And I share responsibility with that. That is job one.''
 Even as its news programs remain top-rated, NBC has seen its fortunes fall sharply in the last decade. In prime time, the network ranks a distant fourth, and its 10 p.m. program, ''The Jay Leno Show,'' is increasingly the butt of jokes. 
 The network's ''Saturday Night Live'' alluded to the network's losses over the weekend, with the host of ''Weekend Update'' joking that the final sticking point to the deal was ''G.E. convincing Comcast that it's still 1996.'' With that, the logos for NBC's ''Must See TV'' shows of the 1990s -- ''Seinfeld,'' ''Friends'' and ''E.R.'' -- were flashed on the screen.
 The weakened state of the network aside, NBC employees said in interviews that they only sensed low-level anxiety about Comcast's takeover, in part because changes are not expected until after the deal closes. The companies expect regulatory approvals to take a year or more. But one of the staffers acknowledged, ''Some of us are worried that they're going to have sticker shock over what it takes to do it on the broadcast side.''
 Some employees said they were relieved to hear Comcast executives say at the town hall that widespread layoffs were unlikely because there is little overlap between the two companies. The employees requested anonymity to speak candidly and describe the town hall meeting because they were not authorized by the network to speak.
 Strumming a Comcast-branded guitar to celebrate the Comcast news on Thursday, Conan O'Brien, the host of ''The Tonight Show,'' joked about the deal having ''no apparent redundancy issues.''
 If anyone feels redundant, it would be the NBC affiliates that deliver their signals over the air; they will now be part of a company that provides its programming via cable. Mr. Roberts said in interviews that he did not foresee changes to the NBC affiliate structure, but was not specific about how far into the future he could see.
 Comcast has not yet contacted the affiliates. ''From what we've read and what we've seen, their interest in content certainly aligns with ours, so there's reason to be optimistic,'' said Michael Fiorile, the chairman of the NBC affiliates board and the chief executive officer of Dispatch Broadcast Group, which owns NBC stations in Indiana.
 Comcast could toss a lifesaver of sorts to the broadcast business by supporting per-subscriber payments to stations, or so-called retransmission agreements. Comcast was noncommittal about retransmission last week, saying only that it hoped to play a constructive role.
 In a letter aimed at Washington lawmakers and regulators who will scrutinize the deal in the coming months, David L. Cohen, an executive vice president at Comcast, expressed support for NBC on Thursday. He wrote, ''Notwithstanding the turbulence in the current media marketplace and the ongoing threats to the business model of a national broadcast network, the combined company remains committed to continuing to provide free over-the-air television'' through its owned and operated stations and its local broadcast affiliates. 
 Comcast also said it would ''preserve and enrich the output of local news, local public affairs, and other public interest programming'' on NBC's stations. Public interest groups opposed to the deal called Mr. Cohen's letter weak, noting that it did not make any funding commitments for local or national news.
 Not surprisingly, Comcast did not commit to keeping the name NBC Universal after the deal closes. Internally, the company will house its stake in NBC Universal inside a unit called Comcast Entertainment. Some Comcast executives are keen on using the Comcast Entertainment name in the future, although it is doubtful that the ''NBC Nightly News'' will become the ''Comcast Nightly News'' anytime soon.
 Talking to CNBC on Thursday, Mr. Roberts suggested that the NBC name sometimes distracts from the fact that NBC's cable channels are ''fantastic.'' 
 ''In a way, sometimes their name gets in the way of that,'' Mr. Roberts said. He started to say that he had talked about that fact with others, then cut himself off, saying instead, ''we've joked about that.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 9, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the future of broadcast television after the Comcast-NBC Universal deal misspelled the surname of a former host of ''The Tonight Show.'' He was Jack Paar, not Parr. The article also misstated the age of the broadcast division of NBC Universal relative to its film division. The NBC network was founded in 1926, 14 years after Universal was created by a merger; the network is not the oldest part of NBC Universal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The NBC studios, rich in broadcast history, may feel the pinch of cable TV economies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B1)
Jeffrey Immelt, left, head of General Electric, and Brian Roberts, chief of Comcast, are partners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIRGINIA SHERWOOD/NBC)
 In NBC's glory days, in the late '40s and early '50s, stars like Milton Berle kept America riveted to the small screen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVERETT COLLECTION) (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); CORPORATE CULTURE (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); WRITERS (65%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (98%); COMCAST CORP (93%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (93%); CCV (NYSE) (93%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (98%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: BRIAN L ROBERTS (89%); JEFFREY IMMELT (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



209 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Push for Deal on Public Health Plan

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama exhorted Senate Democrats on Sunday to put aside their differences and seize their moment in history by passing landmark health legislation. But senators said he did not mention sticky issues like abortion or a new government-run insurance plan.
 Though Mr. Obama gave them no guidance on the question, Senate Democrats on Sunday intensified their yearlong effort to build consensus around some form of a public insurance plan to compete with private insurers. 
 The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, named 10 senators -- five centrists and five liberals -- to seek a compromise. Under a leading proposal, the federal Office of Personnel Management would negotiate with insurers to offer one or more national health plans to individuals, families and small businesses. The personnel office has decades of experience arranging health benefits for federal employees, including members of Congress.
 The push for a deal on the public option indicated the pressure Democrats were feeling to resolve their differences if they hope to pass the bill by their self-imposed deadline of Christmas. On Monday, the Senate plans to take up another explosive issue, restrictions on insurance coverage for abortion.
 In the closed meeting with Senate Democrats, Mr. Obama summarized the achievements of Congress this year and cited evidence that the economy was improving, senators who attended the meeting said. Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, quoted the president as saying that the health care bill was ''the most important social legislation since Social Security.''
 Lawmakers who vote for it will be rewarded in the 2010 elections and by the judgment of the nation in 20, 30 or 40 years, the president said, according to Mr. Baucus.
 Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the assistant Democratic leader, said the president's message was simple: ''He reminded us why we are here. He reminded us why we run for office. And he reminded us how many people are counting on us to come through.'' 
 Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, said Mr. Obama had risen above ''the day-to-day trench warfare of the Senate'' and placed the legislation ''in the sweep of history.'' 
 ''Decades from now,'' the president said, according to Mr. Whitehouse, ''this will be the kind of vote you remember. It will be written in the faces of children and families who are relieved of the burden of anxiety and sorrow.''
 Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said Mr. Obama had emphasized ''the importance of health care reform to our economy.'' But he added, ''the president did not take any questions and did not get into specifics where there are disputes.''
 Mr. Obama's visit came on the seventh day of Senate debate on the legislation. While the floor fight has pitted Democrats against Republicans, the real battle is taking place internally among Democrats.
 Thorny unresolved issues include the proposal for a government-run insurance plan; insurance coverage for abortion; cost-control measures, including the powers of an independent commission to rein in Medicare spending; and requirements for employers to provide health benefits to workers or pay a penalty.
 Mr. Reid has not nailed down the 60 votes he would need to limit debate and move to passage of the health care bill. To offset the possibility that one or more members of the Senate Democratic caucus may break ranks, Mr. Reid and the White House have been wooing the Maine senators, Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins, both Republicans. Mr. Obama met on Saturday in the Oval Office with Ms. Snowe.
 Some Democrats described the president's remarks on Sunday as a pep talk.
 ''It was not about the issues,'' said Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska, a centrist Democrat seeking major changes in the bill. ''For those who have already decided to support the bill, it's helpful to have the president bolster their resolve.''
 The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said Mr. Obama needed support from every Democrat because the bill had ''virtually no appeal to any Republican senator.''
 ''Here we are a few weeks before Christmas, with Democrats trying to squeeze every single one of their members to swallow a pretty bitter pill for the American people,'' Mr. McConnell said.
 At a news conference that echoed last year's presidential race, Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, lit in to Mr. Obama, just as he was meeting with Democrats a few steps away. He said Mr. Obama and the Democrats were plotting a ''takeover of the health care system by the federal government.''
 Senator Reid said it was necessary for senators to work over the weekend to overcome staunch Republican opposition. The Sunday session was only the 30th such meeting since 1861, according to the Senate historical office. Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, said the tactic had backfired on Democrats. ''I've got Reid fatigue,'' Mr. Bond said. ''I just wonder if he will try this stunt next weekend.''
 To attract centrists, Democratic leaders are trying to minimize the role of government in any public plan. But in so doing, they risk alienating liberal Democrats like Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio.
 Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, who opposes creation of a public insurance plan, said he was pleased Mr. Obama did not mention it once on Sunday. Mr. Obama did praise other provisions of the bill that would provide coverage to more than 30 million people, regulate the insurance market and slow the growth of health costs, Mr. Lieberman said.
 The Senate on Sunday rejected two proposed amendments to the health care bill. One, offered by Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, would have limited the tax deductions that health insurance companies could take for compensation paid to top executives.
 The other, by Senator John Ensign, Republican of Nevada, would have limited contingency fees that could be paid to plaintiffs' lawyers in medical malpractice lawsuits.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); EVIDENCE (65%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%); HARRY REID (58%); BOB CASEY (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



210 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: As Obama's Poll Numbers Fall, Criticism of Multitasking Rises

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
President Obama began his week lobbying Democratic senators to unite on an overhaul of the health care system.
 On Tuesday, he will lay out his agenda for creating jobs for the 15 million Americans out of work. Then he travels to Oslo to accept the Nobel Peace Prize, even as he seeks support for sending 30,000 more troops to Afghanistan.
 And next week he heads to Copenhagen in search of a worldwide deal to curb climate change by reducing carbon emissions, with sweeping implications for the American economy. 
 Ever since Mr. Obama took office, critics of his leadership style have accused him of tackling too many initiatives at once. That blurs the focus of the White House and Congress, they say, and prevents the president from communicating a clear theme about his agenda to ordinary Americans.
 Now, as Mr. Obama's approval rating in polls has dwindled to 50 percent or below, that criticism has grown louder.
 ''It is a very real problem,'' said a Republican pollster, Jan van Lohuizen, who advised President George W. Bush. ''Not just that attention is scattered, but the message is scattered as well.''
 But that case, 11 months into Mr. Obama's presidency, remains unproved. On health care and climate change, at least, he has drawn closer to achieving his goals -- and challenging accepted notions of how modern presidents communicate and lead a polarized, fragmented country.
 ''I used to firmly believe that the bully pulpit only had one microphone,'' said Mike McCurry, White House press secretary for President Bill Clinton in the mid-1990s. ''But in the age of new media, that's probably changed. There is one 'conversation' in the mainstream media at any hour, but there are hundreds of them coursing across the Web.''
 ''This is the first real test of the 21st-century model of presidential communications,'' Mr. McCurry concluded. ''They may just pass.''
 Busy Schedules
 Every president faces multiple challenges simultaneously. In December 1998, recalled Paul Begala, a former White House political aide, Mr. Clinton juggled the Middle East peace process, violence in the Balkans, a confrontation with the Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein, the drowning deaths of would-be immigrants from Cuba, and the surprise resignation of the House speaker-designate. 
 All while fighting to stave off efforts by Congressional Republicans to oust him from office over the Lewinsky affair.
 ''I always felt like working at the White House was like being one of those plate-spinners on the old variety shows,'' Mr. Begala said. ''It's only newsworthy when one of the plates crashes to the ground.''
 Mr. Obama has drawn particular fire for the substance of his agenda, which emphasizes dialogue with foreign allies and adversaries alike. Republicans faulted the president as showing undue deference by bowing to the Japanese emperor on his recent Asia trip; some Democrats, inside and outside the administration, also questioned whether the weeklong journey to Japan, Singapore, China and South Korea was worthwhile, considering unfinished business on the economy, health care and his new Afghanistan strategy.
 Mr. Obama's response: to risk more such questions by announcing he would go to Copenhagen for the climate change conference. Advisers cited commitments to curb carbon emissions by emerging economic giants China and India as reasons to press for a worldwide deal. 
 Multiple priorities and messages, White House aides said, fit the new media infrastructure on the Internet, social networks and niche publications. ''There have been fundamental shifts in how people consume news and information,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. Among his most urgent tasks, he added, was ''cracking the code.''
 The 24-Hour Cycle
 Robert Shrum, a veteran Democratic strategist, said it was the ever-more-numerous media outlets themselves that had not cracked the code, leaving ''the constancy'' of a 24-hour news cycle ''unable to deal with the normal ebb and flow of a presidency.''
 Even some senior Republicans doubt Mr. Obama's problem is the number of big issues on his agenda.
 ''I've always thought 'too many balls in the air' was a bogus criticism of Obama or any president,'' said Fred Steeper, a pollster for both Presidents Bush who is based in Michigan. Nor does he see much danger that Mr. Obama will be viewed as fawning over foreign leaders in Oslo and Copenhagen. He called that ''a G.O.P.-Beltway perception'' that barely registers with ordinary Americans.
 Instead, Mr. Steeper said, Mr. Obama's political exposure lies ''on the ground results'' on all fronts -- his ability to spur economic growth, curb unemployment, turn around the troubled Afghanistan war and temper soaring health costs.
 On that, both sides can agree.
 ''I think they have been smart in targeting and delivering multiple, but not mixed, messages,'' Mr. McCurry concluded. ''But the payoff is about to come -- or not come.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama is tackling health care, Afghanistan, the economy and climate change.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (79%); POLITICS (79%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (71%); PEACE PROCESS (64%); IMMIGRATION (60%); EMISSIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2009



211 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: A Surfing Event With Everything (but a Big Wave)

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: WAIMEA BAY, Hawaii 

 BODY:
The world's best surfers are waiting for a once-in-a-generation wave here along the North Shore of Oahu, after dozens of them plunged into the churning waters on Monday, dodging rocks, reefs, and driftwood in waves rarely seen even in surf paradises like Hawaii -- but still shy of the big one.
 Not that it wasn't dangerous, with crushing, rolling, manhandling waves able to break boards and bodies alike. Lifeguards talked one surfer through a nasty wipeout early Monday, and used all-terrain vehicles to reach another who had shattered an ankle. 
 ''I'm stoked,'' said Greg Long, 26, a surfer from Southern California. ''If it happens,'' he said of the predicted swell, ''it's going to be the most exciting big-wave event in the history of the sport.''
 Surf experts and weather officials have forecast a swell -- churned by North Pacific storms -- that may rival those of 1969, considered a seminal year in surfing the North Shore, where images of surfers flying down towering waves helped bring the sport into the mainstream and into the perennial realm of cool. 
 In the next day or so, 30-foot to 50-foot wave faces are possible, according to the National Weather Service, the type of prediction that sends professional wave-riders into an extremely mellow frenzy. 
 ''I chase big waves around the world to foggy places where it's freezing cold,'' said Mark Healey, 28, a professional surfer who grew up on the North Shore. ''To finally get a swell like this in my backyard, there's no way I'm missing a second of it.'' 
 Before dawn on Monday, the cream -- or is it the foam? -- of the surfing world assembled at Waimea Bay on the possibility that the Quiksilver in Memory of Eddie Aikau Competition -- one of the sport's most prestigious and rarest events -- would be held. ''The Eddie,'' named for a well-known Hawaiian surfer and lifeguard, is an invitation-only event held when the surf is at its fiercest -- in its 25-year history, it has been held only seven times, the last in 2004 -- and can be called at a moment's notice. 
 So it is that over the last week, all 28 invited surfers and most of the 24 alternates have flown in, shipped in extra boards, and nervously watched the radar and buoy reports for signs that ''Eddie-approved'' waves would arrive. 
 On Monday morning, the surf was big enough but too rowdy for smooth surfing, though organizers had high hopes for Tuesday. ''Welcome to the Thunderdome,'' said Mark Cunningham, one the event's announcers, to thousands of spectators. ''Here comes another set!'' 
 Onlookers filled the wide beach, throwing down towels and pitching tents in the wet sand, while others stood at attention, cheering and ''oohing'' as surfers curled into cylinders of water, shooting out and occasionally into acres of white foam. 
 ''Even the pros know it's sketchy,'' said Cameron Motz, a spectator. ''Or they're crazy.'' 
 Competitors used the day for practice as the surf built. By late afternoon, some people were riding 30-foot waves in the bay, while at nearby Sunset Beach a crew was using a crane to move a lifeguard station out of the way of oncoming surf.
 At Waimea, lifeguards had to continually warn spectators -- and lesser surfers -- from going too close to the water. 
 ''Anybody who enters the water today,'' a lifeguard, Jeff Morelock, said over a beachside public-address system, ''better know what they are doing.'' 
 Dozens of relatives of Mr. Aikau, who vanished -- atop his board -- in 1978 while trying to rescue passengers on a capsized canoe off the Hawaiian coast, had also traveled to the bay where Mr. Aikau's prowess as a lifeguard is the stuff of lore. 
 Officials closed beaches all along the shore in expectation of the big surf, and the police and civil defense officers were warily monitoring the coast for flooding, as some residents moved possessions to higher ground. 
 A predicted three-part swell began developing on Friday night, drawing both professionals and recreational surfers to the wide sand beaches and surfing meccas like the Pipeline and ocean spots with names like Avalanche.
 Bill Weeshoff, who works in advertising in Honolulu, dared the North Shore waves on Sunday even as newly stretched police tape warned beachcombers not to enter the water. Mr. Weeshoff, who moved to Hawaii 16 years ago to surf and never left, called the conditions ''epic.''
 ''This,'' he said, ''is why you live in Hawaii.'' 
 The big waves were also a boon for local businesses, as hotels and surf shops filled up. Joe Green, the owner of Surf N' Sea, in nearby Haleiwa, said that winter tourism -- a lifeblood of the Hawaiian economy -- seemed to be coming back in 2009, and that big surf helped.
 ''People need more equipment,'' Mr. Green said. ''And break more equipment.'' 
 The storm in the Pacific had also raised hopes for another major surfing event -- the Mavericks -- held outside Half Moon Bay, Calif., near San Francisco, with some of the same surfers. 
 ''I'd finish here, and get the red eye,'' said Peter Mel, a veteran surfer from Santa Cruz, near Half Moon Bay. ''It would be the ultimate swell.''
 On Monday, however, organizers said the Mavericks probably would not place this week.
 Whether Hawaii would be witness to the Eddie any time soon remained an open question, though the event's 79-year-old director, George Downing, said that his sense of the weather and wave reports made Tuesday a real possibility. A lifelong big-wave surfer with the laid-back attitude to match, Mr. Downing checked hourly reports from a buoy 200 miles northwest of the islands and seemed to believe that the big surf was on its way.
 ''If it's going to come,'' he said, surveying the surf at daybreak on Monday, ''it's going to come tomorrow.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: As the world's best surfers waited at Waimea Bay on Oahu in Hawaii on Monday for the really big wave, they warmed up on somewhat big ones.
 A lifeguard said that those in the water ''better know what they are doing.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HUGH GENTRY/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SPORTS (91%); SURFING (91%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); WEATHER (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



212 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Adds Drones to Fight Smuggling

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: PALMDALE, Calif. 

 BODY:
To help spot and track smugglers, the Homeland Security Department is expanding its use of drones, the unmanned aircraft widely used in Iraq and other war zones, beyond the Mexican and Canadian borders to the Caribbean and possibly other seas.
 The department, through its Customs and Border Protection division, already operates five of the aircraft, known as the Predator B, along the Southwest border from a base in Arizona and the Canadian border from an installation in North Dakota. 
 Like the drones used by the military, these drones can fly long ranges at high altitudes and are difficult to detect. But the drones that have been used at the border since 2005 are for surveillance and tracking and do not carry weapons.
 The department on Monday unveiled a new drone loaded with special radar, cameras and sensors. Built for $13.5 million by General Atomics Aeronautical Systems here, it is designed for maritime use. It features wide-range radar that gives a more sweeping view of the ocean than any of the government's fleet of manned aircraft.
 The first maritime drones, about the size of a small turbo-prop commuter plane, will start flying in January off Florida, a smuggling hotbed.
 A second drone is scheduled to take flight by summer in the Gulf of Mexico.
 Both ultimately will also be used to patrol off the coast of Central America and Mexico, where drug traffickers use watercraft to bring cocaine from South America. 
 Officials are not sure if the drones will be used off or over Southern California. While there has been an increase recently in the smuggling of drugs and people on the seas there, congested airspace from several commercial airports and military bases could make use of the drone difficult.
 A Customs drone -- like all others controlled by human pilots from a remote location -- that was flying over a sparsely populated area crashed into an Arizona hillside about 100 yards from a house in 2006, causing no injuries or property damage. The National Transportation Safety Board attributed the crash to human error and made several recommendations to make the program safer, most but not all of which were adopted by Customs and Border Protection.
 Still, Homeland Security officials praised the aircraft as a safe and important tool that over land has contributed to the seizing of more than 22,000 pounds of marijuana and the apprehension of 5,000 illegal immigrants.
 ''This is an extraordinary step forward,'' said Adm. Thad W. Allen of the Coast Guard, which will join Customs and Border Protection on drone missions. ''It will help us immeasurably.''
 Michael C. Kostelnik, an assistant commissioner at Customs and Border Protection, said the drones could fly more than 20 hours at a time, more than double the typical manned mission of about 10 hours.
 They travel 275 miles an hour and, Mr. Kostelnik said, are far quieter than conventional aircraft to the point of being virtually imperceptible to anyone on the ground or seas below them.
 ''Right out of the chute they could do things nothing else could do,'' said Mr. Kostelnik, standing next to the whale-gray aircraft, which was formally presented to his agency at an afternoon ceremony here.
 The drones do have limitations. They operate under what is known as visual flight rules, which means the weather must be clear enough for controllers to see where it is going, somewhat limiting its use.
 The program has its critics. The union for Border Patrol agents has criticized the drones as costly and inefficient and has suggested the money would be better spent on adding workers and equipment on the ground.
 ''Unmanned aircraft serve a very useful role in military combat situations, but are not economical or efficient in civilian law enforcement applications,'' said T. J. Bonner, president of the Border Patrol union. ''There are a number of other technologies that are capable of providing a greater level of usefulness at a far lower cost. It appears that the contractors have once again managed to sell a bill of goods to the politicians and bureaucrats who oversee the procurement of technology designed to secure our borders.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Capt. Steve Truhlar, left
Lt. Thomas Shuler
Adm. Jody Beckenridge
 and a Predator B aircraft.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (86%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); MILITARY BASES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); COCAINE (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (72%); CANNABIS (66%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ATOMICS AERONAUTICAL SYSTEMS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3443 FABRICATED PLATE WORK (BOILER SHOPS) (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CARIBBEAN SEA (90%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); IRAQ (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



213 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Fights to Regain Lost Ground

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY and BILL VLASIC

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Chrysler is eagerly awaiting the arrival in 2012 and 2013 of promising new vehicles based on technology from its new partner, Fiat.
 For now, though, the automaker is still struggling badly.
 Chrysler's sales fell more than any other major car company last month, as they have for most of the year -- down 26 percent last month while the overall United States market was flat. Its market share has dwindled from nearly 11 percent in the months before its May 1 bankruptcy filing to about 8 percent after it.
 So Chrysler is trying to market its way back. It fired its ad agency, drastically altered the brand messages for Jeep sport utility vehicles and Ram pickups, and it is offering big incentives to clear dealer lots of inventory. 
 But after receiving nearly $13 billion in federal loans and cleaning up its balance sheet in Chapter 11, it is struggling with products that trail the competition in quality, styling and fuel economy.
 ''We're in a product-driven business, and they don't have much to offer,'' said Wes Brown, an automotive analyst with the consulting firm Iceology in Los Angeles. ''They could get completely drowned out if they don't watch it.''
 Chrysler has been most aggressive in marketing its Jeep brand, with a deluge of television spots during prime-time shows and sporting events.
 Many reviews of the marketing efforts have been sharply critical. 
 Lewis Lazare, a longtime media and advertising writer at The Chicago Sun-Times, recently wrote that the Jeep ads -- with the tagline, ''I live. I ride. I am. Jeep.'' -- may have set ''a new low in the world of consumer advertising.'' 
 The head of Jeep, Mike Manley, said in an interview that consumer traffic in Jeep showrooms increased by up to 20 percent after the campaign began. 
 Still, Jeep sales in the United States fell 24 percent in November, and it went from being the fifth best-selling brand a year ago to 13th place last month. And the only Jeep model that will be completely redesigned before 2013 is the Grand Cherokee, which arrives next spring.
 Mr. Manley said the large sales declines that Chrysler had been posting each month since bankruptcy were a concern, but not unexpected. 
 ''During that time we didn't invest a lot of money in terms of marketing,'' he said. ''Even though the new product might seem a long way away, you're going to see some momentum build.''
 Meanwhile, G.M. has already shown many signs of renewal, despite coming out of bankruptcy a month later than Chrysler. G.M. introduced a money-back guarantee that has increased its visibility and sales, and it has continued to promote new and future products.
 ''General Motors has the products right now,'' said Gerald C. Meyers, a former chief executive of American Motors, a carmaker that Chrysler bought to obtain Jeep. ''Chrysler doesn't have product yet that's as good as G.M.'s products, so they're operating at a handicap.''
 Chrysler, under Sergio Marchionne, its new chief executive who also runs its Italian partner, Fiat, fired BBDO, which had worked with Chrysler for nearly 60 years. The new Jeep ads are by GlobalHue in Southfield, Mich.
 The move prompted BBDO to announce that it would close its Detroit-area office, which employs 485 people and was prohibited in its contract with Chrysler from taking on any other clients. 
 Chrysler dropped BBDO after leaving it with more than $58 million in unpaid bills upon filing for bankruptcy protection May 1. That debt remains in Chapter 11 with other unwanted assets.
 In a memo to BBDO employees, the agency's chief executive, Andrew Robertson, said that they had dealt with, in just four years, ''the inevitable pressures that come with a 60 percent contraction in sales volume, 3 different owners, 4 C.E.O.'s, and 5 heads of marketing'' at Chrysler.
 ''We genuinely hope that the new Chrysler is successful,'' Mr. Robertson wrote. ''Our people have put too much of themselves into those brands to do otherwise.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); BRANDING (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (75%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (75%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (75%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SPORTS (69%); WRITERS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



214 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Board to Propose More Flexible Accounting Rules for Banks

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Facing political pressure to abandon ''fair value'' accounting for banks, the chairman of the board that sets American accounting standards will call Tuesday for the ''decoupling'' of bank capital rules from normal accounting standards.
 His proposal would encourage bank regulators to make adjustments as they determine whether banks have adequate capital while still allowing investors to see the current fair value -- often the market value -- of bank loans and other assets. 
 In the prepared text of a speech planned for a conference in Washington, Robert H. Herz, the chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, called on bank regulators to use their own judgment in allowing banks to move away from Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, which his board sets.
 ''Handcuffing regulators to GAAP or distorting GAAP to always fit the needs of regulators is inconsistent with the different purposes of financial reporting and prudential regulation,'' Mr. Herz said in the prepared text.
 ''Regulators should have the authority and appropriate flexibility they need to effectively regulate the banking system,'' he added. ''And, conversely, in instances in which the needs of regulators deviate from the informational requirements of investors, the reporting to investors should not be subordinated to the needs of regulators. To do so could degrade the financial information available to investors and reduce public trust and confidence in the capital markets.''
 Mr. Herz said that Congress, after the savings and loan crisis, had required bank regulators in 1991 to use GAAP as the basis for capital rules, but said the regulators could depart from such rules.
 Banks have argued that accounting rules should be changed, saying that current rules are ''pro-cyclical'' -- making banks seem richer when times are good, and poorer when times are bad and bank loans may be most needed in the economy. 
 Mr. Herz conceded the accounting rules can be pro-cyclical, but questioned how far critics would go. Consumer spending, he said, depends in part on how wealthy people feel. Should mutual fund statements be phased in, he asked, so investors would not feel poor -- and cut back on spending -- after markets fell?
 The House Financial Services Committee has approved a proposal that would direct bank regulators to comment to the S.E.C. on accounting rules, something they already can do. But it stopped short of adopting a proposal to allow the banking regulators to overrule the S.E.C., which supervises the accounting board, on accounting rules. 
 ''I support the goal of financial stability and do not believe that accounting standards and financial reporting should be purposefully designed to create instability or pro-cyclical effects,'' Mr. Herz said.
 He paraphrased Barney Frank, the chairman of the House committee, as saying that ''accounting principles should not be viewed to be so immutable that their impact on policy should not be considered. I agree with that, and I think the chairman would also agree that accounting standards should not be so malleable that they fail to meet their objective of helping to properly inform investors and markets or that they should be purposefully designed to try to dampen business, market, and economic cycles. That's not their role.''
 Banks have argued that accounting rules made the financial crisis worse by forcing them to acknowledge losses based on market values that may never be realized, if market values recover.
 Mr. Herz said the accounting board had sought middle ground by requiring some unrealized losses to be recognized on bank balance sheets but not to be reflected on income statements.
 Banking regulators already have capital rules that differ from accounting rules, but have not been eager to expand those differences. One area where a difference may soon be made is in the treatment of off-balance sheet items that the accounting board is forcing banks to bring back onto their balance sheets. The banks have asked regulators to phase in that change over several years, to slow the impact on their capital needs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); ACCOUNTING (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (57%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



215 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Coverage Without Borders

BYLINE: By ROGER MAHONY. 
Roger Mahony is the cardinal archbishop of Los Angeles.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
 AS the leaders of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops noted last month, the current health care reform bills in Congress are fundamentally flawed because they fall short in three critical areas: the prohibition of federal financing for abortions and the protection of current conscience laws; the inclusion of meaningful provisions to ensure affordability; and the defense of immigrants' rights to health care.
 Although all three areas are critical for this proposed legislation to be acceptable to the Catholic Church in our country, I would like to focus on the lack of adequate health care for immigrants who live in our midst but who do not yet have legal standing. 
 The two bills are quite different. The Senate bill bars undocumented immigrants from using even their own money to buy health insurance in the government-sponsored marketplace, or exchange, being proposed. The House bill allows undocumented immigrants to purchase health insurance from the exchange, if they use their own money and receive no federal subsidy.
 Most studies estimate that more than 10 million undocumented immigrants live in our country. Many have been here for decades. The majority of these immigrants live in ''mixed families'' -- some members of the family were born here, while other relatives are here without documents. It is unrealistic to think that these millions of people with roots deep in their communities are somehow going to pack up and move back to their country of origin -- whether that is Korea, the Philippines, Russia, England, France or Mexico. Most have their children in local schools, the vast majority of them have jobs here, and all are contributing to the betterment of our nation.
 It makes no sense to deny this large population necessary health care services. It certainly does not help Americans as a whole to remain healthy when millions of people, including schoolchildren, cannot get basic preventive care like immunizations and medications.
 When undocumented immigrants are intentionally excluded from health care coverage, they are forced to go to the only place where they will be accepted for care: trauma centers and emergency rooms -- the most expensive health care delivery systems in the country. What a foolish waste of money, particularly in a time of economic stress for everyone. 
 Using their own money, undocumented immigrants could receive basic health services through less expensive community clinics and doctors' offices. Studies have shown that immigrants are generally younger and healthier than citizens, and use health care facilities and resources less frequently. Giving them access to less costly preventive care would help keep them that way. And by paying into the system, immigrants would make health care less pricey for all by spreading the risks and costs among a larger pool of participants.
 At least the House bill allows undocumented immigrants to purchase health insurance from the proposed exchange. It's difficult to understand anti-immigrant groups' objections to this provision. No one would be rewarded for lacking proper documentation, since undocumented immigrants wouldn't be eligible for subsidies. 
 The Senate bill takes us in the opposite direction and needs to be changed. How is the health of the entire country helped when the Senate will not even allow immigrants to use their own money to purchase their health insurance?
 In many conversations with people around the country, I have found that the dreadful anti-immigrant rhetoric that dominates talk shows does not represent the views of a majority of Americans, who do not reject immigrants out of hand as a burden. Instead, they want to find a way for these people to emerge from the shadows and to begin down a path to legal status.
 To deny our immigrant brothers and sisters basic health care coverage is immoral. To allow people's basic health needs to be trumped by divisive politics violates American standards of decency and compassion. We should pass health care reform that provides access to all, in the interests of the common good. We must also enact comprehensive immigration reform that better balances our country's need for a stable work force with the orderly flow of immigrants to help bring greater prosperity to all Americans. 
 Otherwise, in our country there will remain a permanent underclass left standing in the waiting room, asking for a doctor's visit that will never come.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEANNE VERDOUX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); TRAUMA CENTERS (66%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (63%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ENGLAND (77%); FRANCE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



216 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry Raises More Questions in Case of Arrests After '02 Protest in Capital

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
On a September morning in 2002, the police monitoring protests at the I.M.F./World Bank meetings descended on Pershing Park here and arrested, hogtied and confined for hours hundreds of peaceful protesters, innocent bystanders and other people on their way to work. 
 Those actions led to federal lawsuits that have already cost the city more than a million dollars in legal fees and settlements. They also elicited a sharp reprimand this summer from a federal judge handling one of the cases after it was revealed that city officials lost, destroyed or possibly doctored records relating to the arrests. 
 In hopes of drawing the matter to a close, city officials last week released an investigative report about the missing documents. But the report, which was produced by Stanley Sporkin, a retired federal judge, called for a further inquiry and raised more questions than it answered. 
 Charged with explaining the mysterious gaps in audiotapes from the period surrounding the arrests, Judge Sporkin had also sought to investigate the disappearance of the ''running resume,'' a detailed log of police activity from the day of the arrests. 
 But the report concluded that the only thing certain was that the running log existed at some point, and it suggested that the city try other ways to find a backup copy.
 ''We are particularly disturbed by the fact that not only have we been unable to retrieve a hard copy of the running resume, but also that the electronic copy was purged from the system,'' the report said. ''We have no way of knowing whether this was an act of intentional mischief or reflects a benign action. We do not believe it was the latter.''
 For some City Council members, the findings left much to be desired.
 ''This disappearance of documents appears to be an extraordinary cover-up,'' said Councilwoman Mary Cheh, who helped conduct the City Council investigation in 2004 of the Pershing Park arrests. 
 Adding that she welcomed the United States Attorney's Office or the Department of Justice to investigate the missing documents, Ms. Cheh said, ''Somebody ought to be held accountable.''
 For Peter J. Nickles, the city's attorney general, the Pershing Park arrests have been a scandal that refuses to go away.
 ''I don't like what happened,'' said Mr. Nickles, who took office in 2008 and inherited the Pershing Park cases. ''It happened years ago, and we have done everything we can to settle these cases and make reforms.'' 
 The city has already spent more than $1 million for private lawyers representing the police chief at the time, Charles H. Ramsey, and another top police official, Peter J. Newsham, who has said he ordered the arrests. 
 Mr. Nickles said that he had settled two of the four civil cases and that he hoped to settle the remainder in the next few months.
 The City Council report, released in March 2004, concluded that Chief Ramsey did not have probable cause to arrest anyone in Pershing Park in Northwest Washington and failed to give people in the park proper warning that they were risking arrest. It also questioned whether Chief Ramsey had lied to the Council in testimony about the event.
 Pressure to settle the cases was stepped up in July when Judge Emmet G. Sullivan of Federal District Court lambasted the city attorney general's office for its handling of the litigation. While threatening ''severe'' monetary sanctions and saying he was considering the opening of an independent investigation into the matter, Judge Sullivan voiced his annoyance with the city. 
 ''Mr. Nickles, you're playing games with the wrong judge,'' he said, adding that he wanted Mr. Nickles to submit a sworn declaration detailing his office's shoddy work and the steps he was taking to fix the problems. 
 ''Settle this case soon,'' Judge Sullivan added. 
 In November, the city agreed to pay $450,000 to eight war protesters to settle a civil lawsuit in which they accused F.B.I. agents of detaining them in a Washington parking garage and interrogating them on videotape about their political and religious beliefs. 
 For years, the city police and the F.B.I. said that the interrogation had never happened and that they had no records of such an incident. The police also said no F.B.I. agents had been present when officers arrested the protesters for trespassing. 
 But as lawyers for the protesters were preparing for the trial, which was scheduled to begin in federal court Nov. 30, they unearthed police logs that confirmed the role of a secret F.B.I. intelligence unit in the incident. 
 The city soon settled and agreed to pay each of the protesters $25,000 with the rest of the money going to legal fees and litigation costs. Chief Ramsey was also required to send a letter of apology to each those who sued.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LITIGATION (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%)

PERSON: PETER NICKLES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



217 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Why Was He Shot While Walking the Dog? It Was the Red Shirt

BYLINE: By COREY KILGANNON

 BODY:
Andrzej Leonik no longer wears red shirts.
 And who can blame him? Mr. Leonik, 49, came home from his job as a carpenter in August 2006 and put on a red tank top and took his dog, Sonia, for a walk on 56th Drive in Maspeth, Queens.
 A green Cadillac crept toward him and then stopped. Its driver was aiming a 9-millimeter pistol at him. Mr. Leonik slipped behind a utility pole, but the shooter hit his right leg, shattering the femur. 
 ''I heard the shot but couldn't believe I was hit until I saw the bone sticking out,'' he recalled recently. ''I thought, 'Why would someone do this to me?' ''
 He would find out later, while recovering at Elmhurst Hospital Center. The man in the green Cadillac, the police told him, was Matthew Colletta, an unemployed bricklayer with a long history of mental illness and erratic behavior.
 The police said Mr. Leonik was the first of about a dozen people whom Mr. Colletta, then 34, fired upon that evening. He spent the next six hours roaming Queens, randomly shooting people wearing red or riding in red cars, prosecutors said. The spree left one person dead and five wounded.
 Prosecutors said Mr. Colletta believed he was being threatened by the Bloods gang, which is identified with the color red. None of the shooting victims were Bloods, certainly not Mr. Leonik. This was a man who stood with the Solidarity trade union while living in Poland in the 1980s and immigrated to New York with his wife and two teenage daughters in 2002, hoping to prosper.
 Instead, he is turning 50 with a bad leg, no job and no money, his American dream dashed.
 Hs daughters are helping to support him, now that he can no longer work as a carpenter renovating Manhattan apartments. His wife developed a heart problem and moved back to Poland for health care.
 Mr. Leonik's leg has 15 long screws stabilizing it, and scars from knee to hip. He cannot climb stairs or lift heavy objects and at times, his leg is swollen and useless. A coming operation, his fourth, may help, he is told. He grits through the pain, refusing, he said, to waste money on painkillers.
 More torturous is the notion that his fortunes nose-dived because of the color shirt he put on one quiet summer evening to walk the dog, he said.
 ''For a long time, I could not sleep because of the pain,'' he said. ''I'd think, 'Why me? Why did this happen? How am I going to make it? I've become a burden to my family.' ''
 His small savings ran out quickly. Since he lacked proper immigration documentation, he had trouble receiving benefits.
 ''I was making good money and the whole world was open,'' he said, with the help of an interpreter. ''I was going to send my daughters to college and buy a house, but things turned out otherwise.''
 Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, one of the seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, lent Mr. Leonik a hand by providing $919 to help with his phone and electric bills. And they provided an immigration counselor, Malgorzata Ulbrych-Luczynski, who has helped him apply for a visa that is available to certain crime victims.
 Mr. Leonik recalled that when he fell from the gunshot, Sonia leapt onto his chest. The shooter sped off, but his face was seared into Mr. Leonik's memory, and he later testified before a grand jury and identified Mr. Colletta from an array of photographs, helping prosecutors indict him on second-degree murder and other charges.
 Mr. Colletta has pleaded not guilty, and his trial is likely to start early next year. There were long delays because he changed lawyers repeatedly, prosecutors said recently.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Leonik's mood is improving. 
 ''I was unlucky, at the wrong place at the wrong time,'' he said. ''But I have a grandson now, my family and friends. I consider myself to be lucky except for this one incident.''
 He still has the upper body of a power lifter, and he toys with small dumbbells in his living room. He minds his grandson, plays with Sonia and practices his music.
 Picking up his guitar, he rigged his harmonica holder and began playing on them simultaneously: ''Amazing Grace.''
 He'll get through this, he says, but no more red shirts. Yes, it sounds silly, he admitted, ''but subconsciously, it stays with you.''
 HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged; special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Andrzej Leonik, 49, was walking his dog, Sonia, when a man on a shooting spree wounded him, leaving him unable to work.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Previously recorded: $2,210,454 Recorded: Thursday 29,220 Total: $2,239,674 Last year to date: $2,455,000 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); DOGS (90%); SHOOTINGS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GANGS (71%); IMMIGRATION (64%); MENTAL ILLNESS (53%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



218 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BACK TO BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2418 words

HEADLINE: Debt-Rating Agencies Avoid Broad Overhaul After Crisis

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
When the financial crisis began, few players on Wall Street looked more ripe for reform than the Big Three credit rating agencies.
 It wasn't just that Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings, played a crucial role in the epochal housing market collapse, affixing their most laudatory grades to billions of dollars worth of bonds that went bad in the subprime crisis. 
 It was the near universal agreement that potential conflicts were embedded in the ratings model. For years, banks and other issuers have paid rating agencies to appraise securities -- a bit like a restaurant paying a critic to review its food, and only if the verdict is highly favorable.
 So as Washington rewrites the rules of Wall Street, how is the overhaul of the Big Three coming? It isn't, finance experts say. 
 ''What you see in these bills are Botox shots,'' says Joseph A. Grundfest, a professor of securities law at Stanford Law School. ''For a little while, everyone is going to be frozen into a grin, and then the shots are going to wear off.''
 What explains the timidity of Congress' proposals? This is not a case of lobbyists beating back ideas that might hurt their clients, say those close to the discussions. Instead, Congress is worried that bold measures may backfire. The Big Three, by allowing companies and public entities to raise money by issuing debt, are an essential engine in the country's vast credit factory, and given the still-fragile condition of the equipment, lawmakers are reluctant to try anything but basic repairs, patches and a new alarm system.
 In addition, legislators say, there is little consensus about what a top-to-bottom renovation should look like.
 Under bills that legislators are currently considering, the rating agencies will have to contend with greater oversight, stiffer rules about disclosure and a provision that would make it easier for plaintiffs to sue the firms. But nothing in the laws tackles the critic-for-hire problem or threatens the 85 percent market share that Moody's, S.& P. and Fitch now enjoy.
 ''It's fair to say we knew we were taking on a problem with no silver bullet,'' said Representative Paul Kanjorski of Pennsylvania, the chairman of the Financial Services subcommittee that has led reform efforts in the House. ''I'm convinced that we're getting more control over the rating agencies than ever before but not at all sure we've developed the perfect system.''
 Dozens of Lawsuits
 While Congress may be happy with cosmetic surgery, law enforcement officials are getting more aggressive. Dozens of lawsuits have been filed against the rating agencies, including a case filed on Nov. 20 by the Ohio attorney general on behalf of public pension funds. The Ohio suit, as well as the earlier suits, seeks billions of dollars in damages from the rating agencies and accuses the firms of negligence and fraud. 
 When he filed his suit, Ohio's attorney general, Richard Cordray, said that the ''rating agencies' total disregard for the life's work of ordinary Ohioans caused the collapse of our housing and credit markets and is at the heart of what's wrong with Wall Street today.'' 
 After the suit was filed, Richard Blumenthal, Connecticut's attorney general, said he planned to join the suit and thought that a ''coalition of states'' would also jump on the legal bandwagon -- a potentially grim development for the rating agencies, which could find themselves contending with a phalanx of state officials like the one that aimed at big tobacco in the 1990s.
 The Big Three object that the legislation proposed by Congress could make them more vulnerable to legal action. But they otherwise do not sound particularly exercised about much else that is likely to become law. 
 ''Moody's shares the committees' goal of increased transparency for the ratings process,'' said Michael Adler, a Moody's spokesman.
 S.& P. is equally sanguine. ''We support globally consistent, nondiscriminatory regulation that will help restore investor confidence and bring more transparency to the capital markets,'' said Catherine J. Mathis, a spokeswoman for Standard & Poor's. A spokesman for Fitch declined to comment.
 Without question, the credit rating system is one of the capitalism's strangest hybrids: profit-making companies that perform what is essentially a regulatory role. The companies serve the public, which expect them to stamp their imprimatur on safe securities and safe securities alone. But they also serve their shareholders, who profit whenever that imprimatur shows up on a security, safe or not.
 To make matters more complicated, rating agencies are deeply entrenched in millions of transactions. Statutes and rules require that mutual fund and money managers of almost every stripe buy only those bonds that have been given high grades by a Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organization, as the agencies are officially known.
 But even if there is no foolproof way to reform the rating agencies, the measures that Congress is now backing are strikingly weak, a number of critics say. There is no talk, for instance, about creating a fee-financed, independent credit rating agency, one modeled along the lines of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which was established to oversee auditors after the Enron debacle -- an idea floated by Christopher J. Dodd, the Senate Banking Committee chairman as recently as August.
 That approach would attack the conflict of interest problem head on. 
 Nor is anyone on Capitol Hill suggesting a rewrite of all those rules that put rating agencies in the middle of so much Wall Street action. Instead of cajoling the Big Three into producing more accurate ratings, why not take away the special status of those ratings and make them less important? 
 ''There are a lot of complicated issues that nobody knows how to deal with, like water shortages in different parts of the world,'' says Jonathan Macey, a deputy dean at Yale Law School and a member of a bipartisan task force that has conferred with lawmakers about rating agency reform. ''But this isn't one of them. We could solve this one pretty easily with a modicum of political will. It's just mortifying.''
 Meantime, to the consternation of detractors, the companies are now earning fees from a new source: re-Remics, an acronym for resecuritization of real estate mortgage investment conduits. These are transactions that take downgraded mortgage securities and separate the riskiest assets from the strongest, making the strongest easier to sell.
 The companies do not break out re-Remic revenue in financial reports, but to some, it seems to be a way for rating agencies to profit from a mess they helped make. 
 Academics and former rating agency employees who have been warning lawmakers about the Big Three for years say Congress is tiptoeing when it ought to be charging ahead. But for now, and for the foreseeable future, the market for ratings is sure to look uncannily similar to the one that helped usher in the crisis: three rivals, all of them paid by issuers, bestriding the market.
 It is a picture of the future so rosy and so rife with the potential for profits that some investors see a buy sign.
 ''I've had a few hedge funds call and ask me what I think of the rating agencies as investments,'' said Frank Partnoy, a professor of law and finance at the University of San Diego school of law, who has written extensively on the rating agencies. ''If the dysfunctional regulatory structure stays put, the rating agencies soon will be back to business as usual, which will mean a continuingmonopoly and sky-high operating margins approaching 50 percent.''
 In November 2005, the structured finance department of Moody's held its annual off-site meeting at Chelsea Piers, a sports and entertainment complex in Manhattan. The day, according to several attendees, started as it always did, promptly at 8 a.m. There were hours of presentations, trust-building exercises and near dinnertime, a small concert by three top executives dressed as the Blues Brothers.
 Their song, an original called ''The Compliance Blues,'' was all about the problems of dealing with Moody's compliance department, the group in charge of maintaining the company's ratings standards. A photo of the faux Blues Brothers later showed up in Moody's in-house magazine.
 The performance, according to several former Moody's employees who requested anonymity because they have signed severance agreements, turned the company's quality control team into comic fodder. And it came just as the Securities and Exchange Commission was publicly devising the Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006. One of the act's major new initiatives: bulking up the compliance departments.
 Mr. Adler, the Moody's spokesman, says that the Blues Brothers skit ''poked fun at the intensity of our own compliance efforts,'' and was meant to underscore ''that while dealing with these compliance obligations could be cumbersome and time-consuming for analysts, it was nonetheless crucial to our business.''
 Others remember it differently. Scott McCleskey, a former F.B.I. agent and the man Moody's hired as its ''designated compliance officer,'' in accordance the 2006 act, testified on Capitol Hill last summer that he was marginalized almost from the start and excluded from important meetings at Moody's, including those with the S.E.C. when it examined the company.
 He was fired in 2008, having been told little more than that he had lost the confidence of his bosses.
 The ease with which Moody's side-stepped provisions of the 2006 law -- which also gave the S.E.C. more authority to inspect the agencies, among other measures -- has some critics arguing that Washington is now simply pushing a stronger version of old and ineffective medicine. At minimum, much of what is in the House and Senate bills sounds familiar.
 Both bills enhance the power of the S.E.C. to supervise the rating agencies and both require the companies to bulk up their compliance teams. The Senate bill allows individuals to sue a rating agency for a ''knowing or reckless failure to investigate or to obtain analysis from an independent source.''
 Mr. Kanjorski and Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, who led the Senate's look at rating agencies, said in interviews that they thought their bills went as far as possible to change the system in a judicious manner.
 ''We all understand the outrage,'' Mr. Reed said, ''but our priority is to prevent this from happening again, rather than looking backwards and punishing.'' 
 Mr. Reed has listened in recent months to lots of proposals that would have aimed at the issuer-pays system and promoted alternatives. He also looked at the idea of curtailing the importance of ratings by rewriting rules and laws that require mutual fund and money managers to stick to triple-A securities.
 But he was concerned about the huge numbers of professional investors out there -- like those working for small towns -- who don't have the resources to research every bond they buy.
 Mr. Kanjorski said he worried about remedies that undermined the Big Three because they were pretty much the whole system right now.
 ''We want to do as much correction as we can,'' he said, ''but we don't want to kill the institutions because we have nothing to replace them with.'' 
 One senior Senate aide, who requested anonymity because the aide was not authorized to speak, said that the bill that would reach President Obama's desk early next year would merely be a beginning.
 ''Look at what happened in the 1930s,'' this aide said, ''they passed bill after bill after bill. Now, we're not going to do that, but credit rating agencies are so tied into the way business is conducted, so tied into rules, it's going to be incredibly complicated to unwind, and we're not going to fix it all in one bill.'' 
 Still, there is worry that if Congress doesn't think ambitiously now, it never will. Mr. Macey of Yale Law School, who advocates rewriting the rules that now require nationally recognized statistical ratings organizations to bless countless deals, says that the ratings system as it currently stands encourages bubbles.
 ''You have to ask yourself this question, in any matter of financial reform: Does the change increase the chances of lemminglike behavior?'' he said. ''Because that is the root of all great busts. The price of tulips doesn't soar because a newspaper says that tulips are undervalued. It soars because everyone is buying them. And that's the problem with ratings. They turn investors into lemmings.''
 Business Is Down 
 Even after the disastrous performance of recent years, the Big Three remain deeply entrenched. In September, four companies -- Bank of America, Nissan, Discovery and American Express -- issued structured finance bonds, worth more than $6 billion, and paid Moody's to rate them. None of the companies would comment on their transactions with the rating agencies.
 Business, of course, is down for the rating agencies compared with the boom years. Revenue at Moody's will this year come in at approximately $1.8 billion, predicted Michael Meltz, an analyst for J.P. Morgan Securities, down about 20 percent from the peak in 2007. Shares that traded in the 70s two years ago now trade in the mid-20s.
 ''The brands have been hurt in the last five years, that's a factual statement,'' Mr. Meltz said. ''But when I look at these stocks and see where they're trading relative to the market, given their earnings generating capacity, I find them attractively valued.''
 Given how entrenched the ratings giants already are, some worry that the current legislative proposals will solidify their positions. 
 ''I think these bills are misguided and wrongheaded because they will have the ironic effect of making the incumbents even more important,'' said Lawrence J. White, an economics professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University. ''They're going to encrust the procedures already in place and discourage new business models.''
 The paradox is that everyone -- even the Big Three -- insist that the current system has to change. But somehow, what looked like the low-hanging fruit of financial reform is still dangling, right where it hung at the start of this calamity.
 IN FEAR OF OVERREACHING: Articles in this series are examining the battles being fought in the aftermath of the economic crisis to reshape the financial industry. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric Kolchinsky, left, Scott McClesky and Richard Cantor at a House oversight committee hearing in September. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Ratings agencies' disregard is ''at the heart of what's wrong with Wall Street today. '' RICHARD CORDRAY Attorney general of Ohio (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RUSSELL/THE COLUMBUS DISPATCH)
''I'm convinced that we're getting more control over the rating agencies than ever before but not at all sure we've developed the perfect system.'' PAUL KANJORSKI Representative from Pennsylvania (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 ''We all understand the outrage, but our priority is to prevent this from happening again ... '' JACK REED Senator from Rhode Island (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); LAWYERS (74%); MARKET SHARE (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); BUILDING RENOVATION (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); LITIGATION (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (50%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (50%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: RICHARD CORDRAY (60%); JACK REED (50%); PAUL E KANJORSKI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (50%) OHIO, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



219 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; EXPERIENCE NECESSARY; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Drinks for Truman, a Beatle and the Next Guy In

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

 BODY:
It was the year the Brooklyn Dodgers split for Los Angeles. The year ''Gigi'' swept the Oscars. The year American Express introduced its charge card. The year the young Dubliner Tommy Rowles went wandering into Bemelmans Bar, looking for a bathroom and ending up behind the bar. Fifty-one years later, Mr. Rowles, 69, is still at it, pouring drinks at the chic Madison Avenue boite in the Carlyle, under the New York whimsicalities of Ludwig Bemelmans, the artist who created Madeline. Mr. Rowles drives in daily from Pearl River across the Hudson. His shift: 11 a.m to 6 p.m. 
 Who comes into a bar at 11 o'clock? Oh, this is the Carlyle. We don't talk about our guests. 
 Favorite libation: All I drink is Heineken.
 Easiest drink to make: A martini. Just don't use vermouth. 
 The road to the bar exam: I came here in '58, with $80, from Dublin. I was 18. I left school at 14. My dad died when I was 2, my mom cleaned houses. She was educated. She taught English literature, but they paid her more to clean houses than to teach. In The Irish Echo I found a room for rent on Madison and 96th. I was looking for a job in an Irish bar, but I walked down Madison. There were no bars on Madison. I had to go to the bathroom because I had been up late drinking beers. I walked into the Carlyle. A guy said, ''What do you want?'' I said: ''Mind your own business. I want an Irish bar.'' We talked. He said, ''Do you have black socks and black shoes?'' I said, ''Who doesn't have black socks and black shoes?'' He said, ''Come in tomorrow.'' 
 Most memorable moment. My fourth customer was Harry Truman. He came in and asked me, ''Go outside and tell me what you see.'' I looked outside and I saw six guys with cameras, four guys with microphones and a reporter with a pad and pen. He said, ''If you had to walk 15 blocks with these guys following you, you'd need a drink too.''
 Best tip: A wedding party finished and came in here. They drank and gave me $500. I said, ''Excuse me, no, this is hundreds.'' They said, ''It's O.K.'' 
 Echoes of Camelot: I served Bobby and Teddy, but not Jack. When they know they're running, they don't go into bars. Jackie came in. She was not a drinker. She was class. 
 Happy hours: The friendliest person I ever served was Paul McCartney. And Jack Lemmon. Remember him in ''The Apartment''? 
 Greatest sorrow: My wife, Elizabeth, died on New Year's, five years after a heart attack and two massive strokes. We married in '68. We met at the City Center Ballroom. She had a white dress on. I said, ''I'm going to marry you.'' She said: ''In your dreams. In your dreams.'' I knew when I met her, but it took me a long time to persuade her. The only way I'd get married again is if she was reincarnated.
 Greatest joy: My girl, she's 37. She's having a baby. I hope it's a girl. Girls are great for dads and granddads. 
 Hobby: [He makes a beer-drinking motion.]
 Where you'll find him at his hobby:Doyler & Dunney's in New City. You go in there, the bar is good, the service is great, the food is great. 
 Exercise secrets of a bartender: I'm a walker. If you drink beer, you have to walk. I walk four miles weekdays with a partner. 
 Most amazing revelation: There's no recession on the Upper East Side, I can tell you.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (77%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (84%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%)

PERSON: PAUL MCCARTNEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRELAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



220 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Tax Tax Revolution

 BODY:
One sure way for a government to save taxpayers' money is to do a job only once, not twice or more. A research report released last week by the New York State comptroller, Thomas DiNapoli, backs up that sensible but all-too-often-ignored principle with real-life examples of governments saving money by sharing services, consolidating functions and cooperating. 
 Mr. DiNapoli evidently hopes that it's possible to get jaded New Yorkers to listen to common sense by telling them that some people somewhere else have found ways to lower their property-tax bills.
 New York State has thousands of local governments that control counties, towns, villages, fire districts, schools, garbage collection, sewer treatment, water supplies and who knows what else. No one is even sure how many there are: Mr. DiNapoli counts more than 3,000. The attorney general's office says it's more like 10,500. 
 Whatever the number is, every one of them could potentially save money by working with its counterparts to eliminate or shrink duplicative services and redundant employees. But old habits and bureaucrats' keen survival instincts keep them from acting. Even simple things like merging back-office business functions face resistance from residents unwilling to cede local control. Very seldom does practicality trump parochialism.
 There are exceptions. Not so much in the prideful fiefs of Long Island, where garbage, sanitation and especially school districts might as well have their own moats and portcullises, but in upstate and western New York, where dwindling population and entrenched economic problems have forced people to swallow hard.
 Take the tiny village of Pike, southeast of Buffalo, which at the end of this month will cease to exist. By 31 votes to 5, the village chose to be dissolved into the Town of Pike, after which officials estimate that tax rates will fall by 4.7 percent within the village's old boundaries and 5.3 percent in the town outside. 
 It's a big change for Pike. But it will take a lot more and bigger mergers to start saving real money. Still, Mr. DiNapoli says it's possible. His report calculates theoretical savings of up to $765 million through means far less drastic than village dissolution, like sharing equipment, merging accounting functions and records management and forming health-insurance cooperatives. 
 Saving money through streamlined government is hard, dull work. Governments throughout New York State, which is scraping the bottom of the revenue barrel, would be foolish not to work harder at it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MERGERS (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



221 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Civil Suit Says Lender Ignored Own Warnings

BYLINE: By ZACHERY KOUWE

 BODY:
Like clockwork, the bulletins arrived from California's Mortgage Alley, each bearing the same ominous title: ''Storm Watch.'' 
 Now, those internal warnings, sent from the epicenter of the subprime fiasco, in sunny Orange County, Calif., lie at the heart of one of the biggest fraud cases stemming from that crisis.
 The weekly reports came from workers at the New Century Financial Corporation, a giant mortgage lender that, the authorities now say, lied to its investors about the perilous state of its finances as the housing bubble began to burst. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission on Monday accused three former executives at the now-defunct company of hiding losses as homeowners began missing mortgage payments. The claims, made in a civil suit filed in the Central District of California, come two years after New Century buckled under the weight of its bad loans. 
 New Century is the latest subprime mortgage lender to come under sharp scrutiny from federal regulators for its business during the bubble years. 
 The S.E.C. claims that Brad A. Morrice, the company's former chief executive, and two other senior executives received dire warnings about their company's prospects in weekly ''Storm Watch'' reports from employees but assured New Century investors that the company was sound. 
 As early as September 2006, the reports warned that losses in the company's mortgage portfolio were mounting, according to the S.E.C. The executives did not disclose those losses until the company was nearly bankrupt.
 Mr. Morrice, through his lawyers, denied any wrongdoing. In a statement, he said he had lost millions of dollars on his stock investments in New Century and had done all he could to avert the company's collapse. 
 ''While his efforts failed, there was no fraud,'' his lawyers said. 
 Mr. Morrice, who co-founded New Century in 1995, was appointed to lead the company in mid-2006, just as the real estate market began to implode. Months later, in February 2007, New Century abruptly announced that it would restate its quarterly results for the previous year, causing its stock price to plummet nearly 40 percent. The company, once the nation's second-largest subprime mortgage lender, filed for bankruptcy shortly thereafter, presaging the financial crisis. 
 While Mr. Morrice and others sought to assure investors the company was outperforming its peers, ''New Century's business was anything but 'good' and it soon became evident that its lending practices, far from being 'responsible,' were the recipe for financial disaster,'' the S.E.C. said in its complaint. Also charged with accounting and securities fraud were Patti M. Dodge, New Century's former chief financial officer, and David N. Kenneally, the company's former controller. 
 Regulators are seeking financial restitution for investors who were defrauded as well as fines, but are also aiming to claw back more than $7 million in bonus and other incentive payments received by Mr. Morrice and Ms. Dodge. The S.E.C. said its investigation was continuing.
 In its complaint, the S.E.C. zeroed in on New Century's popular ''80/20'' mortgages, which allowed borrowers with weak credit to buy homes with little or no money down. Even as real estate prices peaked, New Century played down the growing risk of its 80/20 mortgages, calling them niche products and emphasizing to investors its strict underwriting standards.
 But New Century failed to disclose the risks associated with loans and their growing prominence in the company's portfolio, the S.E.C. said. By the fourth quarter of 2006, the products made up more than 30 percent of New Century's total outstanding loans. As more homeowners began missing payments, Mr. Morrice and the other executives intentionally failed to account for the losses, according to the complaint.
 The complaint also alleges that Ms. Dodge and Mr. Kenneally fraudulently accounted for expenses related to bad loans that the company had to repurchase from Wall Street investors. In the face of increasing loan repurchases and a huge, undisclosed backlog of repurchase demands, the S.E.C. said, Mr. Kenneally, with Ms. Dodge's knowledge, made changes to New Century's accounting for loan repurchases in both the second and third quarters of 2006.
 ''The calculations misled investors by implying that virtually all of New Century's borrowers had considerable equity in their homes, whereas, in fact, nearly one-third of New Century's borrowers had no equity in their homes whatsoever,'' the S.E.C. said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); WEATHER (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); ACCOUNTING (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); LAWYERS (73%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



222 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Credit Shrank Again In October, Setting a Record

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Americans borrowed less for a record ninth month in October, another sign that consumer spending would remain weak, making it harder for the economy to mount a sustained rebound.
 Consumer credit fell at an annual rate of $3.51 billion in October, the Federal Reserve said Monday. Economists expected a $9.3 billion decline. 
 Demand for revolving credit, the category that includes credit cards, fell 9.3 percent, while borrowing in the category that includes auto loans rose at an annual rate of 2.6 percent.
 Americans are borrowing less as they try to replenish depleted investments. Many are finding it hard to get credit as banks, hit by the worst financial crisis since the 1930s, have tightened lending standards.
 The 2.6 percent rise in the category that includes car loans reflected a rebound in auto sales in October after they fell sharply in September. That drop came after a surge in auto sales in August as consumers rushed to take advantage of the government's popular ''cash for clunkers'' incentives before they expired.
 While economists have worried for years about the low rate of savings, the concern is that consumers could derail the recovery if they start saving too much of their incomes. Consumer spending accounts for 70 percent of total economic activity.
 Consumers have been reluctant to spend in large part because the labor market has been so weak. The government reported Friday that the unemployment rate improved slightly in November, dropping to 10 percent after hitting a 26-year high of 10.2 percent in October.
 However analysts cautioned that they expected a recovery in jobs to remain lackluster because the overall economy would be growing at rates that are too modest to support solid growth. Many analysts believe the unemployment rate will resume rising, hitting a peak of about 10.5 percent by next summer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER LENDING (92%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (74%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



223 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'THE LAST CARGO CULT'; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Putting His Money Where His Mouth Is

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

 BODY:
Before I settle into my seat at ''The Last Cargo Cult,'' a stem-winding solo meditation on the meaning of money from the prolific storyteller Mike Daisey, the usher slaps a dollar bill in my hand. I'm shocked. If you're going to bribe a theater critic, a measly buck is an insult. 
 I then notice that I am not the only one getting paid off; $10 and $20 bills are being handed out like fliers at a fringe festival. What is going on here? Mr. Daisey lets that question hang there for most of this show at the Public Theater. 
 When he arrives onstage, sitting as he always does behind a glass of water and a desk, he dives into a story about a plane ride to the Pacific island Tanna, which he describes as a land ''beyond the reach of money.'' With an effortlessness that comes from years of spinning tales, he imbues this uneventful trip with the punch of the first explosion of an action movie. 
 As Mr. Daisey explains, the United States set up military bases on this island during World War II and when the soldiers left, a religious movement -- known as a cargo cult -- formed to celebrate their visitors. Every year the tribal community mounts a song-and-dance show about the history of America. Mr. Daisey is there to see one of those shows. He frames the account of his visit with a second story: the recent financial crisis, paralleling the islanders' belief in the United States with our faith in money. 
 The way Mr. Daisey makes his arguments, more than the arguments themselves, is what makes him one of the elite performers in the American theater. Sometimes he lays them out straightforwardly, but more often he expresses ideas indirectly through story and, increasingly, through a self-conscious use of language. He repeats words (pay attention to ''island'' and ''detached''), making them signposts to guide audiences toward his conclusion. He illustrates the relationship between money and trust this way: ''I don't buy that. That's what we say in our culture when we don't believe something.''
 In his new show, the seventh that I've seen, Mr. Daisey's longtime director, Jean-Michele Gregory, helped him expand beyond a Spalding Gray aesthetic. For the first time there is an actual set dominated by a mountain of boxes, designed by Peter Ksander. Mr. Daisey still sits down and turns rumpled papers, but he has added more flamboyance to his repertory. He curses more, punctuates several jokes with a Sam Kinison scream; and he really has perfected the art of juxtaposing rubbery facial expressions with absolute stillness. 
 Lately Mr. Daisey has become known as a polemicist. And when connecting disparate narratives to make sweeping claims about the way power works, his manner can resemble that other gifted star of the monologue, Glenn Beck. This tactic has always been in tension with a more wandering style, committed to spontaneity, real-time thinking (he famously does not use a script) and complexity. My favorite moments are not when two story lines lead to an epiphany, but when they, like characters in a play, argue with each other, making answers seem more remote. 
 At its core ''Cargo Cult'' is about how the increasingly abstract financial instruments of our day have not only made people blind to questions of risk but also to the value of money, which, Mr. Daisey argues, is much more relative than we think. Reaching for poetic flourishes, he indulges in hyperbole, calling the financial system a giant Ponzi scheme and employing the term ''financial terrorism.'' At the same time he is willing to complicate his argument. While he begins by imagining Tanna as beyond the world of business, he learns that the island is not so foreign after all. 
 At the end of ''Cargo Cult'' Mr. Daisey puts a bowl on a table and tells audience members that the bills they received at the beginning of the show were from his own bank account and that if they choose to, they can give them back. It's a provocative experiment designed to make concrete something that is often unspoken. Building on his bomb-throwing critique of regional theater, ''How Theater Failed America,'' Mr. Daisey reminds us that acting is work rooted in a business relationship. 
 To hit the point home, Mr. Daisey tells us that we don't just pay for tickets to see a show. We are also paying so that he can afford rent. ''You are nothing to me,'' he says, scowling. ''You sit there in the darkness, strangers to me. You listen, and you laugh. You are a job. And you will be replaced.'' Money binds us to him. And the fact that its value shifts arbitrarily seems more natural than ever. After all, that dollar has been sitting in my pocket for two hours, and when I put it in the bowl it feels, for a fleeting moment, like I am actually giving up something.
 ''The Last Cargo Cult'' runs through Sunday at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village; (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike Daisey in his new one-man show, ''The Last Cargo Cult.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CULTS & SECTS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); FILM (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); THEATER REVIEWS (71%); THEATER (71%); FESTIVALS (70%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (67%); WORLD WAR II (66%); ARMED FORCES (66%); RELIGION (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Last Cargo Cult, The (Play)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



224 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: At the Copenhagen Climate Talks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Forecast: Expect Temperatures to Rise in Copenhagen'' (Week in Review, Dec. 6):
 Despite many divisions at the Copenhagen climate talks, there is one part of society that is united: young people. The two of us, both in our 20s, from India and the United States, are here in Copenhagen with over 1,000 more youth from over 100 countries as part of a growing international youth climate movement. 
 This October, we helped organize over 5,200 events in over 180 countries to call for a strong climate target to safeguard our survival: 350 parts per million, the safe upper limit of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. 
 Now we're looking for our leaders to set aside the divisions that we as youth have overcome and sign a fair, ambitious and binding treaty here in Copenhagen. If we can work together, so can our parents.
 Roselin Dey Jamie Henn Copenhagen, Dec. 6, 2009
 The writers are organizers with 350.org.
 To the Editor:
 Your Week in Review article about the Copenhagen gathering notes the perceived importance of parity among nations' emissions plans, in their efforts to reach agreement. Parity is the wrong target and the wrong measurement.
 As long as our leaders focus on parity, its absence remains an excuse for avoidance of real issues. Without parity, some key nations will not sign an international agreement. Negotiators return home and blame someone else for failure. 
 Instead of holding occasional meetings like this to sign a global agreement, our leaders should meet more frequently to publicize the issues of emissions and climate change, and the achievements and failures of nations around the globe.
 Change the focus from international agreements to local change, and let each nation's industries, citizens and politicians battle out solutions. Make this a race among nations; do not hinder progress by tying all our legs together. 
 Some will progress more rapidly. There will not be parity, but there will be progress.
 Stanley Goodman Wyckoff, N.J., Dec. 7, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''In Face of Skeptics, Experts Affirm Climate Peril'' (front page, Dec. 7):
 Ten years ago the world was holding its breath awaiting the devastating impact of the millennium bug. Though we had been assured by countless scientific experts that this was a huge problem, we now know that the global hysteria was almost entirely baseless.
 It should not be a surprise that people have second thoughts about what scientific pundits tell them about global warming, particularly when this is attended by quasi-religious fervor and denigration of those who hold an opposing view.
 Gary Kitchen Southport, England, Dec. 7, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''That Climate Change E-Mail'' (editorial, Dec. 6):
 What the e-mail messages hacked from British climate scientists show is that scientists, too, have human frailties and are capable of behaving in a partisan and even vindictive manner. 
 What they clearly do not show is anything that would alter the enormous preponderance of evidence that human-caused climate change is occurring. 
 Throughout 2009 I have read several articles in The Times reporting new data showing that conditions are worsening even faster than had been anticipated. There is accumulating evidence that we are losing ice sheets and glaciers faster, that sea levels have risen more and that global temperatures are rising faster than the models had predicted. Of course, these are the very consensus models that the global warming skeptics are now stridently attacking.
 What the skeptics call Climategate is just another in the seemingly endless parade of phony conspiracy theories that attract attention because of their sizzle, not their substance.
 Russ Weiss West Windsor, N.J., Dec. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial concludes, ''It is also important not to let one set of purloined e-mail messages undermine the science and the clear case for action, in Washington and in Copenhagen.''
 Hold on a minute. It was precisely because ''one set'' of opinions has been driving climate politics that the whistleblowers, not hackers, published the evidence. And it is precisely because of the type of coverage that The New York Times and other mainstream news organizations are giving the whistleblowing incident that the integrity of both the scientific and journalistic communities is being threatened.
 Honest questions have been raised and honest attempts have been made to shed light on questionable claims about climate science for decades. We need to push for greater disclosure, more scrutiny, better research and a halt in the action before we jump into policy and regulatory schemes that we will deeply regret.
 Michelle Michot Foss Houston, Dec. 6, 2009
 The writer, an energy economist based at the University of Texas at Austin, is a past president of both the United States and International Associations for Energy Economics.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM GOUGH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); EMISSIONS (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); WRITERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (72%); ENGLAND (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



225 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Job Seekers Get a Gift Of Goodwill

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
She had the sad eyes of someone who'd known tough days, the eyes of the jobless. ''It's been a year,'' she said when asked when she last had work. ''A long time.''
 At first this middle-aged woman didn't mind giving her name, but then asked to retreat into anonymity. She had a possible job lined up: case manager for a social services agency. Might as well play it safe. No need to advertise her long unemployment or where she was standing at the moment, in a Goodwill store on Third Avenue in East Harlem. 
 She needed an outfit for the job interview. ''I'd like a business suit,'' she said, ''and preferably a shirt to go with it.''
 A young man went to the same store. He, too, had been without work for a year, ever since his release from an upstate prison. He'd done time for burglary. Starting over has been bumpy but, at last, he had a job interview with a car detailer. ''I need khakis and a nice shirt,'' he said.
 Other stories of hard times and hard luck abounded. Few would surprise you. The latest employment figures were issued the other day, and they showed that the country was not hemorrhaging jobs the way it used to. But in a place like the Goodwill store in East Harlem, all it meant was that the economy had gone from thoroughly rotten to merely terrible.
 ''Maybe the bleeding has stopped, but the patient is still ill,'' said William J. Forrester, the president and chief executive of Goodwill Industries of Greater New York and Northern New Jersey. ''Actual hiring has got to take place.''
 To help out, Goodwill in New York did something new for it. Over the weekend, it offered a free outfit -- a suit, a dress, a skirt, a shirt -- to anyone who needed to spiff up for a job interview. Formally, there was a $50 per-person limit. But $50 stretches far in a Goodwill store. For all intents and purposes, the outfits were free.
 There are many ways to calibrate the misery index. One reasonable measurement was the weekend turnout at Goodwill's 37 stores across the region. In all, officials of the organization said, 569 men and women accepted the offer. That suggests an awful lot of need.
 Did they all have job interviews? No one could say. That's because no one asked. An honor system ruled.
 ''People seem legitimately in need,'' said Mauricio Hernandez, Goodwill's vice president for retail sales. Might some have stretched the truth? ''Our concern for that doesn't override our concern to help people,'' Mr. Hernandez said. ''And there's no reason to be concerned. Most people are gracious.''
 Alan Kirpalani, who manages 10 Goodwill shops in the city, told of one woman who picked out two dresses at a store on the Upper East Side. ''I told her, 'Madam, an outfit means one dress,' '' Mr. Kirpalani said. ''She said to me, 'I may have to go for a second interview. I can't wear the same dress.' I said, 'O.K., you've convinced me.' ''
 Providing outfits to enhance job prospects is not a new concept. It all but defines groups like Dress for Success, Bottomless Closet and Career Gear. But the offer of free clothing was a departure for Goodwill, which depends heavily on retail sales of donated garments to pay for its educational, employment and athletic programs.
 AN overarching theme is the sanctity of work. At the store in East Harlem and other neighborhoods with many Spanish speakers, that point is reinforced on wall signs in two languages: ''Believe in the power of work! Cree en el poder del trabajo!''
 Along this line, Mr. Forrester cited John D. Rockefeller. ''Charity, but don't make it forever'' was his rendition of a Rockefeller admonition. ''Charity,'' Mr. Forrester said, ''so that the person who receives the charity can eventually become independent.'' More precisely, Rockefeller has been quoted as saying, ''Charity is injurious unless it helps the recipient to become independent of it.'' In either version, the principle is much the same.
 To Mr. Forrester's surprise, donations have held steady in this Great Recession, confounding his expectation that people would hold on longer to an old skirt or jacket. He's not quite sure why this is so. ''Maybe people who are in a good place realized, 'I'm lucky, maybe I should support a charity,' '' he said. ''But that's just anecdotal.''
 ''I was educated by the Franciscans,'' Mr. Forrester said. ''St. Francis said -- I'm paraphrasing here -- that in giving, you receive. I truly believe that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RETAIL SALES (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BURGLARY (67%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



226 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Climate Talks Open With Calls for Urgent Action

BYLINE: By TOM ZELLER Jr.; Andrew C. Revkin and James Kanter contributed reporting from Copenhagen.

 BODY:
COPENHAGEN -- A much-anticipated global meeting of nearly 200 nations -- all seeking what has so far been elusive common ground on the issue of climate change -- began here on Monday with an impassioned airing of what leaders here called the political and moral imperatives at hand. 
 ''The clock has ticked down to zero,'' said the United Nations' climate chief, Yvo de Boer. ''After two years of negotiation, the time has come to deliver.'' 
 From now until Dec. 18, delegates will try to hammer out some of the most vexing details involved in the pursuit of a global climate accord. 
 While the critical action will unfold much later in the process, when higher-level ministers and, ultimately, heads of state arrive, the opening day of the conference was an opportunity for the United Nations to nurture a sense of mission and for delegates to begin staking out their positions.
 Among the most difficult hurdles, many participants acknowledged throughout the day, are achieving adequate cuts in greenhouse gas emissions -- particularly from big polluters like the United States and China. 
 So, too, are securing commitments from wealthy nations to deliver what could ultimately be hundreds of billions of dollars in financing to poor countries, which argue that they are ill equipped to deal with a problem they did little to create.
 Several countries announced new emissions goals in the days leading up to the meeting, including China, Brazil, the United States, India and South Africa -- although many participants have noted that the targets are far too low to keep rising temperatures in check in coming decades. 
 The pledges so far are ''not going to get us as far we need to go, to really stay within the two-degree limit,'' said Koko Warner, an observer with the United Nations University in Bonn, Germany. He was referring to scientists' recommendations that temperature increases be capped at two degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels. 
 ''We don't want to admit it, because the consequences are so bad,'' she said.
 Still, speakers at the conference's opening plenary session -- which began with a video appeal from children across the world to save them from what looked like an apocalyptic future of deserts and rising seas -- were clearly aiming to spur negotiators forward. 
 After several hundred delegates and observers settled inside the main conference hall of the Bella Center to music from a trumpeter, a harpist and the Danish Girls Choir, Connie Hedegaard, the Danish minister presiding over the conference, noted the recent string of emissions commitments by various countries. 
 ''Every positive announcement will improve our chances of staying below the two degrees Celsius target,'' she said. ''But as we all know only too well, we are not there yet.'' 
 ''This goes for financing as well,'' Ms. Hedegaard said, noting that arriving at a consensus on that issue ''may be an even bigger challenge'' than emissions cuts.
 Rajendra K. Pachauri, the chairman of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, spoke before delegates of the urgent need for action. And, alluding to a recent controversy over e-mail messages between scientists hacked from a university computer server, he had pointed remarks for those who ''find it difficult to accept'' climate change science. 
 Climate change skeptics have argued that the e-mail shows that the evidence for global warming is less unequivocal than scientists assert.
 But Dr. Pachauri ticked off a list of trends that robustly reflect the warming of the global climate. ''Internal consistency from multiple lines of evidence strongly supports the work of the scientific community, including the individuals singled out in these e-mail messages,'' he said. 
 Both inside and outside the plenary session, the mood among negotiators and other participants was one of cautious optimism. Alden Meyer, who directs climate policy for the Union of Concerned Scientists, said he was encouraged that the meeting appeared to have nudged previously reluctant nations to begin offering up emissions cuts.
 ''It has focused attention and gotten all the major players to put their initial offers on the table,'' Mr. Meyer said. ''I think that's good news.''
 Still, negotiators who have spent the last year working out the technical details of a potential treaty are now coming up hard against political pressures at much higher levels that will ultimately shape any agreement.
 The challenge, Mr. Meyer said, will be getting parties to ''rise above the politics as usual'' that threatens to bog down the process.
 Jonathan Pershing, the State Department's special climate envoy, who represented the United States at the opening plenary, said he saw strong signs that the conference would prove critical in getting traction on curbing emissions and helping poor countries that are urgently threatened by climate change -- particularly given the decision by more than 100 leaders, including President Obama, to attend.
 He said he saw no indication that efforts could be blunted by Saudi Arabia and other countries that have cited the e-mail flap in challenging climate findings. 
 At a subsequent news conference, however, Mr. Pershing faced questions from European reporters about the adequacy of Mr. Obama's plan for emissions cuts, which is roughly parallel to what is laid out in legislation in the House and Senate.
 Mr. Pershing said the American proposal -- which calls for a reduction in emissions by 30 percent from 2005 levels by 2025, 42 percent by 2030 and 80 percent by 2050 -- was in keeping with cuts that scientists say would avert the worst dangers, but only if all countries, including emerging economies, did their part.
 ''It's a vision that moves the United States down the curve of greenhouse gas emissions at a level that no other country has even begun to seriously contemplate,'' Mr. Pershing said. While the United States produces one-fifth of worldwide greenhouse emissions, he noted, four-fifths are coming from elsewhere.
 ''Unless the world can combine its efforts, we won't solve the problem,'' he said.
 Outside the Bella Center, calls were growing for conference participants to overcome their differences and deliver results in coming days. 
 An open letter from a coalition of groups, including Friends of the Earth, the Third World Network and others, accused Danish leaders of ''undemocratic practices'' and of ''convening small and exclusive groups of countries before the Copenhagen meeting.'' 
 The assertion is a reference to rumors that ''alternate'' treaties are being readied by some big players, including conference organizers, should efforts to resolve differences on the current text prove fruitless. 
 Meanwhile, 56 newspapers around the world published the same editorial calling for ''decisive action'' in Copenhagen. 
 ''In scientific journals the question is no longer whether humans are to blame, but how little time we have got left to limit the damage,'' read the editorial, which was widely distributed in a campaign led by Britain's Guardian newspaper. ''Yet so far the world's response has been feeble and half-hearted.'' 
 Continued inaction will ravage the planet and wreak havoc on economies and livelihoods, the editorial's authors warned. 
 ''The politicians in Copenhagen have the power to shape history's judgment on this generation: one that saw a challenge and rose to it, or one so stupid that we saw calamity coming but did nothing to avert it,'' the editorial said. ''We implore them to make the right choice.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (74%) CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); DENMARK (90%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



227 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: An Appeal To Congress To Extend Jobless Aid

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
State labor officials and worker advocates appealed on Monday for quick Congressional action to extend emergency jobless benefits and to renew health insurance subsidies for the long-term jobless. 
 Prolonged unemployment insurance, passed this year in the stimulus act, expires this month, and an estimated one million workers will see benefits end in January if Congress does not act. 
 The health subsidies, under which the federal government pays 65 percent of insurance costs under Cobra for up to nine months, have expired and are not available to the newly unemployed. 
 Renewal this month of both forms of aid is ''a moral imperative,'' Sandi Vito, the secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Labor and Industry, said Monday at a news conference here. Ms. Vito said the extensions were needed ''through at least the end of 2010 as a bridge for people.''
 Congressional aides said in interviews that renewing the aid programs had bipartisan support. 
 Democratic Congressional leaders are considering adding the measures to a spending bill for government operations before the end of the month. But prospects are uncertain in the Senate, which is dealing with the health care overhaul and where there is disagreement over how long any extensions should last. 
 Another year of extended benefits and aid for health insurance would cost about $100 billion, officials estimate. 
 State officials said that any gaps in the program would have disastrous effects on people who are on the edge of foreclosure or eviction. It would also cause serious administrative burdens for state agencies, resulting in delays for applicants, said David Socolow, New Jersey's commissioner of labor and workforce development. 
 While unemployment declined in last week's report, to 10 percent, more than 15 million people remained unemployed in October and 36 percent of them had been jobless more than six months.
 Prof. Raj Chetty, an economist at Harvard University, said that with so many without jobs for so long, ''people have depleted their savings and exhausted the help of relatives.'' 
 Douglas Holmes, president of UWC, which represents businesses on unemployment insurance and compensation issues, said his group was ''not opposed to some further extension,'' but cautioned against adding burdens on employers. 
 The first 26 weeks of unemployment benefits are paid by the states with money collected from employers. This year Congress added several extensions, bringing the potential total to 99 weeks in many states. 
 But without Congressional action, people who lost their jobs after July 1, for example, would receive no federally paid extensions once their customary six months of state aid ran out. 
 In January alone, benefits would halt for more than one million unemployed people, according to projections by the National Employment Law Project, an advocacy group and a co-sponsor of Monday's news conference. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 10, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about an appeal to Congress to extend emergency jobless benefits misstated eligibility for federal subsidies for Cobra payments for up to nine months. They are available to workers who become unemployed up to Dec. 31; they have not expired.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); EVICTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



228 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Carbon Credits Seen as Barrier to Warming Curb

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
Does Russia hold hostage the future of a carbon cap-and-trade system that many experts see as a critical tool for curbing global greenhouse gases? Improbable as it may seem, the answer appears to be yes.
 That is because Russia, as a result of the collapse of much of its heavy industry in the 1990s, owns one of the largest stocks of credits to offset carbon emissions.
 The unearned windfall, a legacy of the Kyoto agreement that tried to deal with the threat of climate change, is worth several billion dollars. If abruptly sold abroad, those credits could send the price of carbon on the world's fragile emissions markets plunging toward zero. 
 Without a predictable and reasonably high price for carbon emissions, most economists say, there is little prospect of setting in motion the many investments needed to shift from a carbon-intensive industrial economy to a more sustainable energy base in developed and developing countries alike.
 Carbon trading is mainly based on permits that are issued or sold by governments to companies that emit carbon dioxide and other gases that are believed to affect the climate. The companies are required to buy permits, or seek credits elsewhere, if they emit more than a specified amount of carbon. They can profit by selling their permits for cash if they come in below their cap. 
 As governments lower the overall caps, the prices for permits and credits should rise. Supporters of carbon trading say that the system is working when companies facing high-cost permits cut their output, invest in cleaner technology or buy emissions credits from a company or organization that has taken actions to reduce emissions or absorb greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. 
 The main model for such a system already operates in the European Union, which has called on all industrialized countries to have systems in place by 2015 and for rapidly emerging economies like China and India to adopt them by 2020. A similar system is being debated in the United States.
 But even if a global market develops, many experts warn that carbon trading should not be relied on to deliver the scale of emissions cuts needed to keep the rise in global temperatures within a range that scientists say would prevent dangerous changes. 
 Environmental groups warn that carbon markets may end up providing only a fraction of the money some poor countries expect, largely because wealthy countries are not willing to set their caps stringently enough. Tougher caps would push up demand for more offsetting in the developing world. That, the theory goes, should raise the price of carbon, so that governments selling permits would have more money to redirect to a future global climate protection fund. 
 The prospect of Russia dumping its credits is just the latest challenge facing emissions trading, the expected financial backbone to any global agreement that may emerge from the talks taking place in Copenhagen over the next two weeks. The hoard of Russian credits is a ''gorilla sitting in the background'' that ''nobody dares to touch,'' said Peter Zapfel, a senior official who helps to oversee the European Union's four-year-old emissions trading system.
 Russia could ''fundamentally affect the environmental integrity of what we agree to at Copenhagen,'' he said.
 Industrialized countries, including the United States, are counting on trading as the most inexpensive and efficient way to help meet future emissions targets intended to limit the carbon pumped into the atmosphere.
 European leaders, meanwhile, have emphasized the role any trading project should play in channeling the large sums of money that poorer countries have demanded as a condition for a deal at Copenhagen.
 Henry Derwent, the president of the International Emissions Trading Association, an industry group based in Geneva, predicted that an emissions market could be worth $3 trillion by the end of the next decade, compared with about $130 billion a year now.
 In a number of countries, however, powerful lobbies, often backed by the coal industry, have blocked efforts to pass legislation to cap emissions. And where such systems have come into existence, particularly in Europe, the low prices and volatility in carbon markets have spooked investors rather than encouraged them to invest in clean energy. 
 There are also serious doubts about the way reductions in greenhouse gases can be earned, traded and managed, reinforcing the view that carbon markets may turn out to be just another Wall Street gambit.
 ''I do think that carbon markets have an important role to play,'' said Nicholas Stern, a professor at London School of Economics and one of the world's leading climate economists. But ''all markets have to have some kind of regulation and rules in order to function properly,'' he added. ''We've surely seen that in the last few years -- and this surely is one of them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CARBON OFFSETS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (53%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



229 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Choice Seating

BYLINE: By BARBARA S. PETERSON

 BODY:
As airlines continue to reduce the number of seats they offer on domestic routes, flights are getting fuller. For business travelers whose companies insist they fly in coach, that means finding a more comfortable seat on an aisle or in an exit row is becoming harder. 
 And just as surely, industry experts say, airlines are finding new ways to charge for the privilege of escaping a dreaded middle seat in the back of a crowded economy cabin. There are rows with more legroom near the front, roomier exit rows in the middle, and aisle seats. All have a price, it seems, but what you pay can vary widely by airline and by your status on a particular carrier. 
 ''It can be a Darwinian process'' to pounce on a good seat before it is taken, says Joe Brancatelli, who runs the joesentme.com Web site for business travelers. ''Each airline is doing its own thing, and the rules keep on changing.''
 Frontier Airlines is the latest airline to create what is effectively a subclass within coach. In November, Frontier reconfigured its layouts to give those sitting in the first four rows 36 inches of seat pitch (the distance from one point on a seat to the identical spot on the seat in front), up from 33 inches. It charges $15 to $25 for the so-called stretch rows. But since the airline did not change the total number of seats in coach, that means that fliers sitting in the rest of the cabin are getting less legroom -- as little as 31 or 30 inches, according to some reports. 
 The general concept is not new. United's Economy Plus and Jet Blue's Even More Legroom programs offer rows with as much as four inches of additional legroom in the front of the plane. Fees depend on the length of flight. United, for example, charges from $9 to $109, with the top fee for a long run like Los Angeles to Tokyo. AirTran also charges $20 for exit-row seats.
 Road warriors tend to have their own strategies for seeking out, or avoiding, a particular location. The most avid ones study a particular airline's layout on sites like seatguru.com. For Mr. Brancatelli, avoiding a middle seat is the ultimate objective, he said, even if it means sitting far in the back. ''It wouldn't make any sense to pay for a middle seat in an exit row,'' even one with more legroom, he said.
 Michael Derchin, a financial analyst with FTN Equity Capital Markets in New York, said that when he traveled on business, he preferred to sit on the aisle near the front door, to avoid the crush of passengers upon landing. ''If you've had a rough day and are trying to get home, getting out quickly when the plane lands is key,'' he said. Besides, he said, the airline fees on checked bags were encouraging more people to carry bags on board. ''It can take what seems like forever to get off a plane if you're stuck in back.'' 
 Mr. Derchin, whose specialty is airlines, said the seat fees seemed to be gaining acceptance. ''Consumers understand that when you go to the theater or a concert, you pay for location; there's one price for sitting in the orchestra, another for the back of the mezzanine.
 ''The airlines have figured out that where you sit potentially could be worth different things to different people.'' 
 Some travel experts think the trend is positive. ''They are charging you for something of value,'' said Brett Snyder, a former airline employee who writes the crankyflier.com blog. ''Why should someone who sits in an exit row aisle seat pay the same as someone who sits in the last row in the middle?''
 Still, he said, some consumers were not happy with this development. ''I think the biggest problem is that for fliers, it looks like just another fee,'' on top of a myriad of new charges for items like checked bags and pillows. In addition, since the fee is paid separately, it usually comes out of the traveler's own pocket, rather than being folded into the overall fare. 
 Of course, fliers who have elite status on an airline usually do not have to pay for the best coach seats. USAirways Choice Seats program is typical. The airline opens up a handful of prime spots 24 hours before departure, typically aisle or window seats near the front. Passengers checking in online are given a shot at securing one for fees that range from $5 to $30 a flight segment, depending on the length of the flight. But there is no charge for high milers. On average, USAirways sets aside about 12 percent of its capacity for the program, according to Morgan Durrant, a spokesman for the carrier. 
 Still, when Delta Air Lines tried to introduce a similar program after it acquired Northwest, which had its own choice seats plan, it was inundated by complaints from its elite ''medallion'' fliers, who were accustomed to getting a chance at those spots well in advance of departure for no charge. Delta later backed off and does not charge for premium spots in coach. 
 But for most airlines, the fees are a moneymaker. JetBlue figures customers paying for more legroom will generate $65 million this year, said Marty St. George, senior vice president for marketing.
 Even Southwest Airlines, which has made a point of proclaiming its independence from fees, has joined in. The airline does not assign seats, and, much like a bus, passengers typically board on a first-come, first-served basis and sit wherever they want. But travelers who paid its higher-price ''business select'' fare could already board ahead of the masses. 
 Several months ago, Southwest allowed some passengers to pay $10 for the right to board ahead of the crowd -- but after ''business select'' and elite frequent fliers. Those traveling on the lowest discount fares are not eligible for the perk. 
 Foreign airlines are experimenting with seat fees as well. British Airways said recently that it would begin allowing fliers to reserve specific seats well in advance of flight time, beginning at $16 a flight, and up to $90 for business-class customers (only first class and full-fare fliers are exempt). Customers still can get an assigned seat at no charge, one day before departure. 
 ''It's getting to the point where we may end up with a different price for each seat on a plane,'' Mr. Brancatelli said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



230 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America Executive Under Scrutiny

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
One of the leading candidates to take the helm at Bank of America has become embroiled in an investigation of the bank's merger with Merrill Lynch.
 The office of New York's attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, has contacted several of the bank's lawyers in the last two weeks with concerns about testimony given last month by Greg Curl, the bank's chief risk officer.
 The issue emerged just as the bank's board began a two-day meeting in Charlotte, N.C., where the bank is based, with the goal of appointing a new chief executive before Kenneth D. Lewis retires at year-end. The board has been torn over whether to name an internal candidate, like Mr. Curl, as its next chief, or an outsider unmarred by the Merrill deal. 
 Mr. Curl led the bank's negotiations to take over Merrill during the financial crisis last year, and he remained involved in decisions related to the merger as it was presented to shareholders. Lawmakers and investigators have since criticized the bank for failing to disclose billions of dollars in losses at Merrill, and huge bonuses paid to Merrill executives, before shareholders approved the deal on Dec. 5.
 Mr. Cuomo's staff began questioning Mr. Curl about the disclosures in the spring, as the attorney general opened his investigation. The bank said it had relied on the advice of its attorneys, and Mr. Curl testified at the time about a phone conversation he had with a lawyer at Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz on Dec. 3 about the disclosure of Merrill's losses, according to a person familiar with the matter.
 The bank declined to disclose the content of conversations held with Wachtell, citing privacy privileges. Months later, the bank waived these privileges. But when it opened its legal records to Mr. Cuomo's staff, no log emerged proving that the phone call cited by Mr. Curl had taken place, the person familiar with the matter said. Mr. Curl returned to Mr. Cuomo's office in November and testified that he no longer remembered the call.
 Lawrence Di Rita, a spokesman for Bank of America, said: ''Mr. Curl provided his testimony on two occasions, several months apart, to the best of his recollections of events that had occurred as much as one year earlier. We are confident in the consistency and truthfulness of the Bank of America testimony.'' 
 Mr. Curl, a longtime company executive, led negotiations on all of the bank's recent mergers and is best known for his deal-making skills. In recent weeks, he represented the bank in its negotiations to return taxpayer money.
 The bank expects to repay its $45 billion in bailout funds this week, after it raised nearly $20 billion in the private market last week. The bailout had been a stumbling block in the search for a chief, as some outsiders were wary of leading a bank still tethered to the government. Now, the bank's board may reapproach some of those who were hesitant. 
 A person close to the board said some members knew about Mr. Cuomo's concerns with Mr. Curl, but do not think they represent legal exposure for Mr. Curl.
 Mr. Cuomo's investigation -- and several others -- center on whether the bank should have disclosed more information about Merrill before shareholders voted to approve the deal on Dec. 5. 
 The subcommittee of the board hunting for a new chief is being advised by Edward D. Herlihy and other lawyers at Wachtell. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BAILOUTS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (84%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); KENNETH D LEWIS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



231 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: An Effort To Spread Green Power To Coasts

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For 40 years, the North American electric system has operated as three loosely linked grids, but a new transmission company is aiming to unite them. That union, if consummated, could have strong implications for renewable energy.
 The company, Tres Amigas, proposes a huge power hub near Clovis, N.M., covering more than 20 square miles. It would be remote from populated areas but near the fulcrum of the continent's wind and solar resources. Tres Amigas plans to make regulatory filings on Tuesday in pursuit of its goal.
 The project could, backers say, transform a region that is a sparse frontier for transmission lines into a robust intersection that would allow immense transfers of power across the country. The direction of flow would depend on where the wind was blowing, the sun was shining and the temperatures were creating extra electrical demand. 
 The project would link the Eastern Interconnection, which stretches from Halifax to the Dakotas and New Orleans; the Western Interconnection, which runs from British Columbia to a slice of Baja California, and extends east toward the Rockies; and the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, a transmission grid covering most of that state.
 Only eight small connections now link the grids, with a total power-moving capacity of 2,000 megawatts, equivalent to the output of a couple of nuclear plants. The first phase of the project would more than double the size of the linkage, to 5,000 megawatts, and it might eventually be expanded to 30,000 megawatts.
 James J. Hoecker, who was chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission during the Clinton administration, said 31 states had adopted quotas for renewable energy and Congress might establish a national quota. 
 But the places where it is easiest to generate such power, like the windy states in the middle of the country or the sunny states of the desert Southwest, do not have the heaviest demand. Already, wind turbines in some areas, notably Texas, sometimes generate more power than can be delivered to market. 
 ''How do we get this massive amount of renewable energy that's in the middle of the country, where there aren't that many customers, to the coasts, where they can use it and where they may be legally required to use it?'' Mr. Hoecker said.
 Phillip G. Harris, former president of a grid organization that oversees the Middle Atlantic states, founded Tres Amigas and designed the proposed hub. His part of the project would cost less than $2 billion, but other companies would have to spend substantial sums building transmission lines. Mr. Harris said he had obtained letters of intent from three major transmission companies to build such lines.
 The American Superconductor Corporation, one partner, will supply special cables to move huge amounts of electricity.
 ''The size and scale of this thing are dramatic,'' said an electricity industry expert, Peter S. Fox-Penner, principal of the Brattle Group. His firm recently predicted that $250 billion in transmission investments would be needed by 2030, but he said the Tres Amigas project raised an economic question, whether enough electricity would be traded to justify the cost.
 The project would use several new technologies on an unprecedented scale, to do two jobs. It would move energy among grids that all use alternating current, but the alternation is not synchronized, and it would use advanced electronic controls to stabilize each grid. Mr. Harris said electricity users would benefit from the energy transfers, and the hub would reduce large differences in price among the grids.
 His company plans to file two applications with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission on Tuesday. One seeks approval to operate an electricity market, a forum for arranging purchases and sales. The other asks the agency to affirm that the Texas electric grid can remain free of federal regulation even if Texas utilities join the proposed hub. The utilities view that as a requirement for their participation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); WIND POWER PLANTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); SUPERCONDUCTORS (68%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (65%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN SUPERCONDUCTOR CORP (60%)

TICKER: AMSC (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335312 MOTOR & GENERATOR MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3643 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICES (60%); SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



232 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Census Finds Increase In Foreign-Born Workers

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Nearly one in six American workers is foreign-born, the highest proportion since the 1920s, according to a census analysis released Monday. 
 Because of government barriers to immigration, the share of foreign-born workers dipped from a 20th-century high of 21 percent in 1910 to barely 5 percent in 1970, but has been rising since then, to the current 16 percent.
 In 2007, immigrants accounted for more than one in four workers in California (35 percent), New York (27 percent), New Jersey (26 percent) and Nevada (25 percent). 
 For the first time, the Census Bureau also compared immigrants by generation. Generally, income and other measures of achievement rose from one generation to the next, although educational attainment peaked with the second generation. 
 Monica Boyd, a sociology professor at the University of Toronto, said the second generation personified ''the overachievement model, a tendency for very high achievement that seems to come as a result of immigrant parents' instilling in these kids an enormous drive.'' Professor Boyd added, ''Many try to instill in their kids the phrase, 'We did this all for you.' ''
 Among all immigrant families, median income rose from $50,867 in the first generation to $63,359 and $65,144 in the second and third, respectively. The only group to register any decrease was family households headed by single mothers; their income declined from the second generation to the third.
 Similarly, the overall proportion of immigrant families living below the government's official poverty level declined, from 16.5 percent to 14.5 to 11.5 among three generations. But among adult immigrants, the proportion who are poor grew again between the second and third generations.
 While the proportion of high school graduates increased from one generation to the next, the share who had bachelor's degrees or more higher education declined from the second to the third generations. The proportion with doctorates peaked with the first generation.
 Elizabeth Grieco, chief of the Census Bureau's immigration statistics staff, said the figures suggested substantial progress from the first generation to the second.
 ''This really shows that immigrants integrate over time the same way they always have,'' Ms. Grieco said.
 In terms of education, she said, ''the third generation seems to be stopping at bachelor's or master's degrees.''
 Nancy Foner, a sociology professor at Hunter College of the City University of New York, said, ''If there is some evidence of third-generation decline, then this no doubt has a lot to do with persistent inequalities and disadvantages facing many of the second generation and their children.''
 Professor Foner added that ''the economic declines of the past few years no doubt play a role'' and that ''it could also be that second-generation parents, themselves born in the U.S., are less optimistic and push their children less hard than their own immigrant parents who came here and struggled so their children could succeed.'' 
 In 2007, the census found that immigrants were more likely to be employed or looking for work than native-born adults. The proportion of immigrants without a high school diploma is higher than among native-born Americans, but so is the share of immigrants with graduate degrees. While immigrants constitute 16 percent of the total labor force, the foreign-born (mostly from Asia and Europe) make up 28 percent of workers with doctoral degrees.
 Noncitizens were most likely to work in agriculture, construction and the hotel and food service industries. Citizens born abroad were most prevalent in real estate, health care and transportation. Immigrants from Asia, Europe and Africa are most likely to be employed in management and professional occupations, those from Mexico in construction and farming.
 The labor force figures are from the 2007 American Community Survey. The generation comparison comes from the 2008 Current Population Survey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CENSUS (91%); FAMILY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PARENTS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



233 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: A Fearful Price

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
I spoke recently with a student at Columbia who was enthusiastic about the escalation of U.S. forces in Afghanistan. He argued that a full-blown counterinsurgency effort, which would likely take many years and cost many lives, was the only way to truly win the war.
 He was a very bright young man: thoughtful and eager and polite. I asked him if he had any plans to join the military and help make this grand mission a success. He said no. 
 There was an article in The Times on Monday about a new study showing that the eight years of warfare in Iraq and Afghanistan were taking an emotional toll on the children of service members and that the difficulties increased the longer parents were deployed.
 There is no way that the findings of this study should be a surprise to anyone. It just confirms that the children of those being sent into combat are among that tiny percentage of the population that is unfairly shouldering the entire burden of these wars.
 The idea that fewer than 1 percent of Americans are being called on to fight in Afghanistan and Iraq and that we're sending them into combat again and again and again -- for three tours, four tours, five tours, six tours -- is obscene. All decent people should object.
 We already knew that in addition to the many thousands who have been killed or physically wounded, hundreds of thousands have returned with very serious psychological wounds: deep depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, and so on. Other problems are also widespread: alcohol and drug abuse, family strife, homelessness.
 The new study, by the RAND Corporation, was published in the journal Pediatrics. The children surveyed were found to have higher levels of emotional difficulties than their peers in the general population. 
 According to the study:
 ''Older youth and girls of all ages reported significantly more school, family and peer-related difficulties with parental deployment. Length of parental deployment and poorer non-deployed caregiver mental health were significantly associated with a greater number of challenges for children, both during deployment and deployed parent reintegration.'' 
 The air is filled with obsessive self-satisfied rhetoric about supporting the troops, giving them everything they need and not letting them down. But that rhetoric is as hollow as a jazzman's drum because the overwhelming majority of Americans have no desire at all to share in the sacrifices that the service members and their families are making. Most Americans do no want to serve in the wars, do not want to give up their precious time to do volunteer work that would aid the nation's warriors and their families, do not even want to fork over the taxes that are needed to pay for the wars.
 To say that this is a national disgrace is to wallow in the shallowest understatement. The nation will always give lip-service to support for the troops, but for the most part Americans do not really care about the men and women we so blithely ship off to war, and the families they leave behind.
 The National Military Family Association, which commissioned the RAND study, has poignant comments from the children of military personnel on its Web site. 
 You can tell immediately how much more real the wars are to those youngsters than to most Americans:
 ''I hope it's not him on the news getting hurt.''
 ''Most of my grades dropped because I was thinking about my dad, because my dad's more important than school.''
 ''Mom will be in her room and we hear her crying.''
 The reason it is so easy for the U.S. to declare wars, and to continue fighting year after year after year, is because so few Americans feel the actual pain of those wars. We've been fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan longer than we fought in World Wars I and II combined. If voters had to choose right now between instituting a draft or exiting Afghanistan and Iraq, the troops would be out of those two countries in a heartbeat.
 I don't think our current way of waging war, which is pretty easy-breezy for most citizens, is what the architects of America had in mind. Here's George Washington's view, for example: ''It must be laid down as a primary position and the basis of our system, that every citizen who enjoys the protection of a free government owes not only a proportion of his property, but even his personal service to the defense of it.''
 What we are doing is indefensible and will ultimately exact a fearful price, and there will be absolutely no way for the U.S. to avoid paying it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (89%); FAMILY (88%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (76%); MENTAL HEALTH (74%); DEPRESSION (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); VOLUNTEERS (69%); MENTAL ILLNESS (64%); HOMELESSNESS (63%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



234 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths GEISS, PHYLLIS E.

 BODY:
GEISS--Phyllis E.,81, adored wife of Tony Geiss, died Sunday, December 6. She was in the first class to attend Hunter High School, placing first in its city-wide entrance exam. After a Cornell University B.A. in sociology (Phi Beta Kappa) she was appointed a research analyst at the London School of Economics, later becoming supervisor of copy research at Kenyon & Eckhardt Advertising, then was vice-president at Market Facts, NY. As an independent consultant she advised Citibank in the use of sophisticated research to help them attune their products--credit cards, ATMs and computer banking--to people's needs. She was a warm, quick-witted woman whom a bank colleague described as "a pixie who could charm anyone into doing the right thing." She was a wonderful friend who will be greatly missed. She is survived by a sister, Eda Mason of Phoenix, AZ, the loving Saperstein and Eisen families, and her husband, Tony Geiss. Services will be at Riverside Memorial Chapels, 76th and Amsterdam, on Wednesday, December 9 at 11:45am. In lieu of flowers please send donations to: The Joseph Michaeli Multiple Myeloma Foundation at NY Presbyterian Hospital--Cornell, 525 East 68th Street, NYC, NY 10065. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (72%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (84%); PHI BETA KAPPA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



235 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Greenhouse Gases Imperil Health, E.P.A. Announces

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency on Monday issued a final ruling that greenhouse gases posed a danger to human health and the environment, paving the way for regulation of carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles, power plants, factories, refineries and other major sources.
 The announcement was timed to coincide with the opening of the United Nationsconference on climate change in Copenhagen, strengthening President Obama's hand as more than 190 nations struggle to reach a global accord. 
 The E.P.A.'s administrator, Lisa P. Jackson, said that a 2007 decision by the Supreme Court required the agency to weigh whether carbon dioxide and five other climate-altering gases threatened human health and welfare and, if so, to take steps to regulate them. 
 She said Monday that the finding was driven by the weight of scientific evidence that the planet was warming and that human activity was largely responsible.
 ''There have and continue to be debates about how and how quickly climate change will happen if we fail to act,'' Ms. Jackson said at a news conference at the E.P.A.'s headquarters. ''But the overwhelming amounts of scientific study show that the threat is real.''
 Industry groups quickly criticized the decision, saying that the regulation of carbon dioxide, a near-ubiquitous substance, would be legally and technically complex and would impose huge costs across the economy.
 In her prepared remarks and in response to questions, Ms. Jackson waded into the current dispute over leaked e-mail messages from a British climate research group that have stirred doubts among a number of people about the integrity of some climate science.
 Several Republicans in Congress had asked the E.P.A. to delay the so-called endangerment finding because of questions about the underlying science. Ms. Jackson rejected their plea.
 ''We know that skeptics have and will continue to try to sow doubts about the science,'' she said. ''It's no wonder that many people are confused. But raising doubts -- even in the face of overwhelming evidence -- is a tactic that has been used by defenders of the status quo for years.''
 She said that the agency had reviewed the arguments of some of those skeptics during months of public comment but that none of them had raised significant new issues.
 The Obama administration had signaled its intent to issue an endangerment finding for carbon dioxide and five other greenhouse gases (methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride) since taking office in January. Ms. Jackson announced a proposed finding in April and has since taken steps to draft the rules needed to back it up.
 The administration has used the finding as a prod to Congress, saying that if lawmakers do not act to control greenhouse gas pollution it will use its rule-making power to do so. At the same time, the president and his top environmental aides have said that they prefer such a major step be taken through the legislative process. 
 The administration struck a deal with automakers last spring to set stricter tailpipe emissions and higher fuel economy standards as part of the greenhouse gas regulation efforts. The E.P.A. has also announced rules requiring all major emitters to report an annual inventory of emissions.
 In late September, the agency announced a proposed ''tailoring rule'' that limits regulation of climate-altering gases to large stationary sources like coal-burning power plants and cement kilns that produce 25,000 tons or more a year of carbon emissions.
 Industry groups said that the finding and the proposed regulations would damage the economy and drive jobs overseas. Some groups are likely to file lawsuits challenging the new regulations, which could delay their effective date for some years.
 ''E.P.A. is moving forward with an agenda that will put additional burdens on manufacturers, cost jobs and drive up the price of energy,'' said Keith McCoy, vice president of energy policy at the National Association of Manufacturers. 
 ''Unemployment is hovering at 10 percent, and many manufacturers are struggling to stay in business,'' he said. ''It is doubtful that the endangerment finding will achieve its stated goal, but it is certain to come at a huge cost to the economy.'' 
 Jeff Holmstead, head of air policy at the E.P.A. under the administration of George W. Bush and now an industry lobbyist, said the finding was mainly symbolic.
 ''It does not have any immediate effect and does not impose any regulations or requirements on anyone,'' he said. ''Today's announcement comes as no surprise and is clearly designed to set the stage for the Copenhagen conference.''
 Environmental advocates who have pushed for the finding for years exulted.
 ''The stage is now set for E.P.A. to hold the biggest global-warming polluters accountable,'' said Emily Figdor, federal global-warming program director for Environment America, an activist group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (93%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); NITROGEN OXIDES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); METHANE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); EVIDENCE (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%)

PERSON: LISA P JACKSON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



236 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 CHILDREN BEAR BRUNT 
 Of Blast Near Iraqi School
 As attacks on Iraq's security forces continued, an explosion near a school in the Sadr City district of Baghdad wounded scores of children and killed at least one. PAGE A15
 REPORT FAULTS MEXICAN ARMY 
 Amnesty International is scheduled to release a report raising allegations of extrajudicial killings, torture and arbitrary detentions against soldiers engaged in Mexico's drug war. PAGE A12
 A TEST FOR KARZAI
 President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan faces a decisive test of his pledge to reduce corruption and cronyism when he names members of his new government, Afghan and Western officials say. PAGE A16 
 National
 LEAVING SCANDAL BEHIND,
 A Counselor Resurfaces
 Two and a half years ago, Marilee Jones, the highly regarded dean of admissions at M.I.T., vanished from public sight when it was revealed that she had lied about her academic credentials. But like many others tainted by scandal, she has begun a second act. PAGE A21
 APPEAL TO EXTEND AID
 State labor officials and worker advocates appealed for quick Congressional action to extend emergency jobless benefits and to renew health insurance subsidies for the long-term jobless. PAGE A20
 CASE ON RIGHTS AND RELIGION
 The Supreme Court agreed to hear an appeal from a Christian student group that had been denied recognition by a public law school in California for excluding homosexuals and nonbelievers. The case pits anti-discrimination principles against religious freedom. PAGE A24
 New York
 2 BROOKLYN COMPLEXES 
 With a Ghost-Town Feel
 Hundreds of units at the Ingersoll Houses and the adjacent Whitman Houses in the Fort Greene section of Brooklyn are vacant. Most are unoccupied because of a costly, long-delayed modernization project that has forced hundreds of tenants to relocate and has fueled rumors that low-income residents are being pushed out as Fort Greene gentrifies. PAGE A29
 Business
 A BOOM IN DRILLING
 Fuels Pollution Fears
 Across vast regions of the country, gas companies are using a technology called hydraulic fracturing to produce natural gas from previously untapped beds of shale. But the drilling boom is raising concern in many areas, and the reaction is creating political obstacles for the gas industry. PAGE B1
 GOOGLE ADDS LIVE UPDATES
 Google announced that it would begin supplementing its search results with the updates posted each second to sites like Twitter, Facebook and MySpace. PAGE B1
 A PAYBACK ALL ABOUT PAY
 Bank of America was in a rush to pay back its funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program in order to rid itself of the scarlet letter that has tainted its public image. But it was also eager to get from under the program's pay restrictions in order to offer a competitive compensation package for a prospective new chief executive. Andrew Ross Sorkin, Dealbook. PAGE B1
 SPREADING GREEN ENERGY
 A company has proposed a huge power hub near Clovis, N.M., covering more than 20 square miles, that would be near the fulcrum of the continent's wind and solar resources. PAGE B3
 Sports
 UNDERMINED BY INJURIES, 
 Trail Blazers Keep Pushing
 The Portland Trail Blazers have assembled an enviably deep and talented young roster. But a devastating injury to their emerging young center, Greg Oden, is just the latest demoralizing turn for the team, which has seen a barrage of injuries to its players and its owner, Paul Allen, was found to have cancer. PAGE B19
 LEADING THE IRISH
 When the college football world descends on New York City this week for its annual postseason black tie affair, there will be a lobby full of speculation about who will be the next Notre Dame football coach. So far, Brian Kelly, the Cincinnati coach, appears to be the leading remaining candidate. Analysis. PAGE B16
 Arts
 BOOKSELLERS FEED IMPORTS
 To Mystery's Hungry Fans
 A group of independent bookstores has found one way to lure customers into paying premium prices for a hardcover title: import and charge a premium for ''The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet's Nest,'' the much-anticipated third installment in a thriller trilogy that is available in Britain several months before its release in the United States. PAGE C1
 A LOOK INSIDE GOOGLE
 In his book ''Googled,'' Ken Auletta depicts the online search giant Google as having the virtues and flaws of the classic geek: a brilliant game-changer that can be socially inept, and both naive and arrogant in its dealings with the world. Review by Michiko Kakutani. PAGE C1
 Review: Assassin's Creed II C3 
 'So Help Me God!,' Revived C3 
 Science Times
 ADDICTION ON 2 FRONTS:
 At Work and at Home
 A. Thomas McClellan, the country's No. 2 drug official, knows addiction well. He is married to a former cocaine addict and he lost one son to an overdose. And as an expert, Dr. McClellan has been a leading voice for the idea that addiction is a chronic illness and not a moral issue. PAGE D1
 Can a Shoe Tone Your Muscles? D5 
 Mapping the Unseen Sky D3 
 Op-ed
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A37
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A37

CORRECTION-DATE: December 9, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A capsule summary on Tuesday for an article about the new deputy director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy misspelled his surname. He is A. Thomas McLellan, not McClellan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); CORRUPTION (76%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (71%); DISCRIMINATION (71%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (67%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (67%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); RELOCATIONS (64%); SOCIAL MEDIA (60%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (60%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); GOOGLE INC (52%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



237 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Recovery Remains Fragile, Fed Chief Says

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve Chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, warned Monday that it is too soon to know whether the economic recovery will last and again pledged to hold interest rates at record-low levels for an ''extended period.'' 
 Speaking to the Economic Club of Washington, Mr. Bernanke said he thinks the economy will struggle even as it recovers from the recession. He said the economy confronts ''formidable headwinds,'' including a weak job market, cautious consumers and tight credit.
 Those forces ''seem likely to keep the pace of expansion moderate,'' he said.
 The central bank has leeway to keep rates low because inflation is under control and is expected to stay tame because of the economy's weakness. Some private forecasters even fear that the recovery could fizzle late next year as government stimulus fades.
 Asked about prospects for such a ''double dip'' recession, Mr. Bernanke said he could not guarantee it would not happen. He stuck with his forecast for a moderate recovery but said a ''vigorous snapback'' is less likely.
 Mr. Bernanke said he expects ''modest'' economic growth next year. That should help push down the nation's unemployment rate, now at 10 percent, ''but at a pace slower than we would like,'' he acknowledged.
 Under one Fed forecast released last month, the jobless rate would remain high next year, ranging from 9.3 percent to 9.7 percent. The Fed has warned that it could take five or six years for the job market to return to normal.
 On other matters, Mr. Bernanke predicted taxpayers will get all their money back from the financial bailouts as well as some ''fairly significant extra income'' from the investments. ''I think we're in very good shape,'' he said.
 President Obama also addressed the financial bailouts on Monday and said that he would consider using money from the government's bank bailout package to reduce the deficit and to create jobs.
 Speaking with reporters after a meeting with Tayyip Erdogan, the prime minister of Turkey, the president said that the $700 billion financial bailout program, the Troubled Asset Relief Program, had cost the Treasury less than expected, which could free up some money for other uses.
 One possibility, he said, would be to use the money to help small businesses get loans to expand and hire new workers.
 ''Some of that money can be devoted to deficit reduction,'' Mr. Obama told reporters. ''The question is, are there selective approaches that are consistent with the original goals of TARP, for example making sure that small businesses are still getting lending, that would be appropriate in accelerating job growth.''
 His comments came after the Treasury Department reported that it expected to recover all but $42 billion of the $370 billion it has lent to ailing companies since the financial crisis began last year, with the portion lent to banks actually showing a slight profit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); BANK FAILURES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (62%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



238 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Stalls After Fed's Comments

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
In the morning, investors tried to predict what the Fed chairman would say. In the afternoon, they were not exactly sure whether what he said was good or bad. 
 Wall Street ended little changed on Monday as traders dissected remarks by Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve. Initially, investors seemed encouraged by his reassurances that interest rates would remain low until the economy showed firmer signs of recovery.
 But by the end of the day, they had grown pessimistic about the pace of economic renewal. 
 In a speech, Mr. Bernanke said the economy faced ''formidable headwinds'' and he predicted growth would be moderate.
 ''We still have some way to go before we can be assured that the recovery will be self-sustaining,'' Mr. Bernanke said before the Economic Club of Washington, according to a copy of his remarks. He added, however, that stimulus efforts would be reduced in a ''timely and effective way'' and that the central bank was ''giving careful thought to our exit strategy.'' A Fed committee will meet next week to consider changes to monetary policy.
 Investors were concerned that the Fed, buoyed by signs of renewal in the jobs market, might lift interest rates sooner than expected, a move that could prompt a rush for the dollar as investors left equity markets in hopes of higher returns.
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 1.21 points, at 10,390.11. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 2.73 points, to 1,103.25, and the technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index fell 4.74 points, to 2,189.61. Shares posting losses included financial and information technology companies.
 On Friday, the most promising jobs report since the recession began two years ago added hope that the nascent recovery would endure. The unemployment rate fell to 10 percent in November from 10.2 percent in October, and employers eliminated only 11,000 jobs after months of six-digit declines.
 The employment report both encouraged and unnerved investors, who thought it might motivate the Fed to move interest rates from near-zero levels when it meets to set monetary policy next week. Low interest rates have helped feed a rally in stocks, as traders abandoned the dollar, a less lucrative investment when interest rates are low, for riskier markets.
 Mr. Bernanke's remarks ''put a little bit of a cap on the abundant enthusiasm,'' said Marc Harris, co-head of global research for RBC Capital Markets. 
 ''The market's looking for its next leg of momentum,'' Mr. Harris added. ''And when we hear it's not just going to be an ever-expanding economy, people take that as a signal to sort of take a breath.'' 
 Quincy M. Krosby, a markets strategist at Prudential Financial, said investors were closely watching economic reports before the Fed's policy meeting to see if there were any hints of a turnaround that would give the central bank a reason to raise rates.
 ''As long as the economic data between now and the next meeting continue to be more positive than the market expects, the language in that meeting is going to be crucial,'' she said. ''They're looking to see if the Fed is looking at various exit strategies, not just with raising rates, but with mopping up the liquidity.''
 The dollar reached a five-week high against the euro early Monday but retreated by day's end, finishing around $1.48 against the euro. The yen also strengthened, to 89.51 against the dollar
 Forex.com, an online trading and research group, said in a research note that the dollar would probably continue to gain through the end of the year because of speculation about higher interest rates and a general aversion to the risks of the stock market. 
 As the dollar strengthened, gold continued to retreat, falling 0.5 percent at $1,163.40 an ounce in New York. Oil fell to $73.95 after several OPEC ministers said over the weekend that they did not expect to change production levels this month.
 Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 11/32, to 99 17/32, and the yield fell to 3.43 percent from 3.47 percent late Friday.
 Following are the results of Monday's auction of three- and six-month bills: 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-MONTH TREASURY BILL: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (63%); COMPANY LOSSES (63%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (63%)

COMPANY: HARRIS CO (SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA) (61%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (51%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



239 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Obama Suggests Uses for Bailout Fund

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama said on Monday that he would consider using money from the government's bank bailout package to reduce the deficit and to create jobs.
 Speaking with reporters after a meeting with Tayyip Erdogan, the prime minister of Turkey, the president said that the $700 billion financial bailout program -- called the Troubled Asset Relief Program -- had cost the Treasury less than expected, which could free up some money for other uses.
 One possibility that he cited: using the money to help small businesses get loans to expand and hire new workers.
 ''Some of that money can be devoted to deficit reduction,'' Mr. Obama told reporters. ''The question is, are there selective approaches that are consistent with the original goals of TARP, for example making sure that small businesses are still getting lending, that would be appropriate in accelerating job growth.'' 
 His comments came after Treasury Department reported that it expected to recover all but $42 billion of the $370 billion it has lent to ailing companies since the financial crisis began last year, with the portion lent to banks actually showing a slight profit. 
 The new assessment of the $700 billion bailout program, provided by two Treasury officials on Sunday ahead of a report to Congress on Monday, is vastly improved from the Obama administration's estimates last summer of $341 billion in potential losses from the TARP program. That figure anticipated more financial troubles requiring intervention.
 The officials said the government could ultimately lose $100 billion more from the bailout program on new loans to banks, aid to troubled homeowners and credit to small businesses. 
 Still, the new estimates would lower the administration's deficit forecast for this fiscal year, which began in October, to about $1.3 trillion, from $1.5 trillion. 
 The report could tamp down some of the public anger directed against both political parties over the bailouts. Congressional leaders are already planning to use some of the program's money for economic stimulus and job creation.
 Of course, the government's potential losses extend beyond the Treasury program. The Federal Reserve, for example, still holds an immense portfolio of mortgage-backed securities whose market value is unknown. 
 The improved picture of the Treasury program is the result of higher-than-expected returns on the loans and the fact that, as the financial sector has recovered from its free fall last year, the government has not had to use much more of its $700 billion in lending authority this year, according to the Treasury officials, who declined to be identified as discussing the report before it was presented to Congress.
 Last week, Bank of America became the latest big bank to say that it was raising private capital and would soon repay its $45 billion bailout loan. Once that payment is made, Citigroup will be the last big bank tethered to the state.
 The estimated $42 billion in losses is a net figure that accounts for some profits to offset the losses. The Treasury officials said the government had lost about $60 billion, roughly half to Chrysler and General Motors and the other half to the insurance giant American International Group. 
 But the government is projecting a $19 billion profit and perhaps more on the $245 billion lent to banks, through interest, dividends and the sale of warrants the government received as collateral.
 Aside from the rare good news for the federal deficit, the latest bailout accounting could have political and legislative ramifications. 
 Politically, the Treasury program has been unpopular ever since it was created in October 2008 by former President George W. Bush and a Congress controlled by Democrats. It has grown only more reviled over time as a symbol for many Americans of the government's perceived favoritism toward Wall Street, which is making money, over Main Street, which continues to struggle and shed jobs.
 An anti-Washington anger is disturbing both parties as they approach a midterm election year, and some Republican lawmakers have drawn primary opponents largely because of their votes last year in favor of the bailout program. 
 It was unclear how that climate might be altered as taxpayers realize they did not actually lose $700 billion to help big banks. At most, the Treasury officials said, the ultimate losses will be one-fifth of that amount and probably less.
 Democrats in Congress have already decided to divert about $70 billion from what is left in the bailout fund to the cost of additional road-building and other construction projects, credit to small businesses and further aid to state and local governments.
 The administration had wanted to dedicate unspent bailout money to the deficit but signaled to Congressional leaders late last week that it would not oppose their plans. Mr. Obama is expected to touch on those ideas and others in an economic speech. 
 The bailout program is due to expire at the end of the year, but the Treasury has indicated it will use the authority it was granted by Congress to extend it into 2010. 
 The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, testified last week to a Senate committee that ''nothing would make me happier than to end this as quickly as possible,'' but he added, ''we're not quite there yet.''
 Mr. Geithner, who has become the administration's lightning rod for anger among both liberal Democrats and conservative Republicans, said ''there are parts of the system that are still very damaged'' -- in banking, housing, commercial real estate and credit-starved small businesses.
 He said the administration would propose within weeks when and how to end the program safely.
 At that hearing, he hinted at the Treasury's improved forecast for the program, saying ''we're going to be able to return very, very substantial amounts of money to address the critical economic needs, long-term fiscal needs, of this country.''
 That prediction contrasts with the administration's planning soon after Mr. Obama took office in January. Fearing that additional bank failures could exhaust the entire $700 billion fund, they proposed up to $500 billion more in federal lending authority in the administration's first budget in February.
 Instead, just $7 billion more in bailout money has gone out to banks since Mr. Obama became president, making a second loan authorization unnecessary. Meanwhile, banks have raised 16 times as much, $114 billion, in private capital, according to the Treasury.
 Since the Treasury subjected big banks to ''stress tests'' last winter to determine how much private capital they must raise to withstand future financial shocks, the financial institutions have been eager to do so, in order to repay the government and thereby exit the Treasury's rescue program -- not least to escape the restrictions on executive compensation that come with it.
 Mr. Geithner now says that banks will repay $175 billion by the end of next year. To date, counting Bank of America's promised payment, banks have repaid $116 billion, according to the Treasury. Also, in coming weeks the Treasury will sell more of the government's bank warrants to investors.

GRAPHIC: Treasury officials said the government had lost roughly $30 billion to the insurance giant American International Group. MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS The bank bailout has been unpopular since it was created in October 2008 by former President George W. Bush and Congress. SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (93%); CREDIT CRISIS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); HOMEOWNERS (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TURKEY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



240 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: An Innovation Agenda

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The economy seems to be stabilizing, and this has prompted a shift in the public mood. Raw fear has given way to anxiety that the recovery will be feeble and drab. Companies are hoarding cash. Banks aren't lending to small businesses. Private research spending is drifting downward.
 People are asking anxious questions about America's future. Will it take years before the animal spirits revive? Can the economy rebalance so that it relies less on consumption and debt and more on innovation and export? Have we entered a period of relative decline? 
 The first thing to say is, let's not get carried away with the malaise. The U.S. remains the world's most competitive economy, the leader in information technology, biotechnology and nearly every cutting-edge sector.
 The American model remains an impressive growth engine, even allowing for the debt-fueled bubble. The U.S. economy grew by 63 percent between 1991 and 2009, compared with 35 percent for France, 22 percent for Germany and 16 percent for Japan over the same period. In 1975, the U.S. accounted for 26.3 percent of world G.D.P. Today, after the rise of the Asian tigers, the U.S. actually accounts for a slightly higher share of world output: 26.7 percent.
 The U.S. has its problems, but Americans would be crazy to trade their problems with those of any other large nation.
 Moreover, there's a straightforward way to revive innovation. In an unfairly neglected white paper on the subject, President Obama's National Economic Council argued that the U.S. should not be in the industrial policy business. Governments that try to pick winners ''too often end up wasting resources and stifling rather than promoting innovation.'' But there are several things the government can do to improve the economic ecology. If you begin with that framework, you can quickly come up with a bipartisan innovation agenda.
 First, push hard to fulfill the Obama administration's education reforms. Those reforms, embraced by Republicans and Democrats, encourage charter school innovation, improve teacher quality, support community colleges and simplify finances for college students and war veterans. That's the surest way to improve human capital.
 Second, pay for basic research. Federal research money has been astonishingly productive, leading to DNA sequencing, semiconductors, lasers and many other technologies. Yet this financing has slipped, especially in physics, math and engineering. Overall research-and-development funding has slipped, too. The U.S. should aim to spend 3 percent of G.D.P. on research, as it did in the 1960s.
 Third, rebuild the nation's infrastructure. Abraham Lincoln spent the first half of his career promoting canals and railroads. Today, the updated needs are just as great, and there's widespread agreement that decisions should be made by a National Infrastructure Bank, not pork-seeking politicians.
 Fourth, find a fiscal exit strategy. If the deficits continue to surge, interest payments on the debt will be stifling. More important, the mounting deficits destroy confidence by sending the message that the American government is dysfunctional. The only way to realistically fix this problem is to appoint a binding commission, already supported by Republicans and Democrats, which would create a roadmap toward fiscal responsibility and then allow the Congress to vote on it, up or down.
 Fifth, gradually address global imbalances. American consumers are now spending less and saving more. But the world economy will be out of whack if the Chinese continue to consume too little. The only solution is slow diplomacy to rebalance exchange rates and other distorting policies.
 Sixth, loosen the so-called H-1B visa quotas to attract skilled immigrants.
 Seventh, encourage regional innovation clusters. Innovation doesn't happen at the national level. It happens within hot spots -- places where hordes of entrepreneurs gather to compete, meet face to face, pollinate ideas. Regional authorities can't innovate themselves, but they can encourage those who do to cluster.
 Eighth, lower the corporate tax rate so it matches international norms.
 Ninth, don't be stupid. Don't make labor markets rigid. Don't pick trade fights with the Chinese. Don't get infatuated with research tax credits and other gimmicks, which don't increase overall research-and-development spending but just increase the salaries of the people who would be doing it anyway.
 This sort of agenda doesn't rely on politicians who think they can predict the next new thing. Nor does it mean merely letting the market go its own way. (The market seems to have a preference for useless financial instruments and insane compensation packages.)
 Instead, it's an agenda that would steer and spark innovation without controlling it, which is what government has done since the days of Alexander Hamilton. It's the sort of thing the country does periodically, each time we need to recover from one of our binges of national stupidity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); MAMMALS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EDUCATION REFORM (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); GENOMICS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); DNA (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (66%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (61%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (61%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (60%); VETERANS (50%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



241 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Told To Ratchet Up Taliban Fight

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration is turning up the pressure on Pakistan to fight the Taliban inside its borders, warning that if it does not act more aggressively the United States will use considerably more force on the Pakistani side of the border to shut down Taliban attacks on American forces in Afghanistan, American and Pakistani officials said.
 The blunt message was delivered in a tense encounter in Pakistan last month, before President Obama announced his new war strategy, when Gen. James L. Jones, Mr. Obama's national security adviser, and John O. Brennan, the White House counterterrorism chief, met with the heads of Pakistan's military and its intelligence service. 
 United States officials said the message did not amount to an ultimatum, but rather it was intended to prod a reluctant Pakistani military to go after Taliban insurgents in Pakistan who are directing attacks in Afghanistan. 
 For their part the Pakistanis interpreted the message as a fairly bald warning that unless Pakistan moved quickly to act against two Taliban groups they have so far refused to attack, the United States was prepared to take unilateral action to expand Predator drone attacks beyond the tribal areas and, if needed, to resume raids by Special Operations forces into the country against Al Qaeda and Taliban leaders. 
 A senior administration official, asked about the encounter, declined to go into details but added quickly, ''I think they read our intentions accurately.''
 A Pakistani official who has been briefed on the meetings said, ''Jones's message was if that Pakistani help wasn't forthcoming, the United States would have to do it themselves.'' 
 American commanders said earlier this year that they were considering expanding drone strikes in Pakistan's lawless tribal areas, but General Jones's comments marked the first time that the United States bluntly told Pakistan it would have to choose between leading attacks against the insurgents inside the country's borders or stepping aside to let the Americans do it. 
 The recent security demands followed an offer of a broader strategic relationship and expanded intelligence sharing and nonmilitary economic aid from the United States. Pakistan's politically weakened president, Asif Ali Zardari, replied in writing to a two-page letter that General Jones delivered from Mr. Obama. But Mr. Zardari gave no indication of how Pakistan would respond to the incentives, which were linked to the demands for greatly stepped-up counterterrorism actions. 
 ''We've offered them a strategic choice,'' one administration official said, describing the private communications. ''And we've heard back almost nothing.'' Another administration official said, ''Our patience is wearing thin.'' 
 Asked Monday about the exchange, Tommy Vietor, a White House spokesman, said, ''We have no comment on private diplomatic correspondence. As the president has said repeatedly, we will continue to partner with Pakistan and the international community to enhance the military, governance and economic capacity of Afghanistan and Pakistan.'' 
 The implicit threat of not only ratcheting up the drone strikes but also launching more covert American ground raids would mark a substantial escalation of the administration's counterterrorism campaign. 
 American Special Operations forces attacked Qaeda militants in a Pakistani village near the border with Afghanistan in early September 2008, in the first publicly acknowledged case of United States forces conducting a ground raid on Pakistani soil.
 But the raid caused a political furor in Pakistan, with the country's top generals condemning the attack, and the United States backed off what had been a planned series of such strikes. 
 During his intensive review of Pakistan and Afghanistan strategy, officials say, Mr. Obama concluded that no amount of additional troops in Afghanistan would succeed in their new mission if the Taliban could retreat over the Pakistani border to regroup and resupply. But the administration has said little about the Pakistani part of the strategy. 
 ''We concluded early on that whatever you do with Pakistan, you don't want to talk about it much,'' a senior presidential aide said last week. ''All it does is get backs up in Islamabad.''
 During his speech at West Point last week, Mr. Obama said that ''our success in Afghanistan is inextricably linked to our partnership with Pakistan.'' But for the rest of the speech he referred to the country in the past tense, talking about how ''there have been those in Pakistan who've argued that the struggle against extremism is not their fight, and that Pakistan is better off doing little or seeking accommodation with those who use violence.'' 
 He never quite said how his administration views the Pakistanis today, and two officials said that Mr. Obama used that construction in an effort not to alienate the current government or the army, led by Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani. 
 Even before Mr. Obama announced his decision last week, the White House had approved an expansion of the C.I.A.'s drone program in Pakistan's lawless tribal areas. A missile strike from what was said to be a United States drone in the tribal areas killed at least three people early Tuesday, according to Pakistani intelligence officials, The Associated Press reported.
 Pakistani officials, wary of civilian casualties and the appearance of further infringement of national sovereignty, are still in discussions with American officials over whether to allow the C.I.A. to expand its missile strikes into Baluchistan for the first time -- a politically delicate move because it is outside the tribal areas. American commanders say this is necessary because Mullah Omar, the Taliban leader who ran Afghanistan before the 2001 invasion, and other Taliban leaders are hiding in Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan Province. 
 Pakistani officials also voice concern that if the Pakistani Army were to aggressively attack the two groups that most concern the United States -- the Afghan Taliban leaders and the Haqqani network based in North Waziristan -- the militants would respond with waves of retaliatory bombings, further undermining the weak civilian government. 
 Publicly, senior American officials and commanders take note of that concern. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton arrived in Pakistan in late October with offers of a strategic partnership. But General Jones followed Mrs. Clinton two weeks later carrying more sticks than carrots, American officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JAMES L JONES (89%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



242 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: The Endangerment Finding

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency formally declared on Monday that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases constitute a threat to human health and welfare. The move empowers the agency to regulate these emissions and gives President Obama an important tool if Congress fails to pass legislation to reduce global warming emissions. 
 Mr. Obama and the E.P.A. administrator, Lisa Jackson, have said repeatedly that they would much prefer a comprehensive legislative approach. But while the House has passed a broad climate change bill, the prospects in the Senate are uncertain. The threat of regulation gives Congress extra incentive to act; regulation would provide a strong backstop if it does not.
 The E.P.A.'s declaration -- known as an ''endangerment finding'' -- is a necessary precondition under the Clean Air Act to regulatory action. Earlier this year, the administration proposed new rules limiting greenhouse gas emissions from cars and light trucks. Those rules, which have been broadly accepted by industry and will be accompanied by big increases in fuel-economy standards, will now be finalized.
 The finding also allows the E.P.A. to regulate emissions from stationary sources including power plants, refineries and factories. So far, Ms. Jackson has offered no specific proposals -- though she is working on them -- beyond a ''tailoring rule'' that would limit any new regulations to big operations that produce 25,000 tons or more a year of carbon emissions. 
 Even so, the mere prospect of regulation has inspired something approaching panic, with industry groups like the Chamber of Commerce railing against ''top-down, command-and-control'' regulation. The House, in an otherwise admirable climate change bill, included a provision restricting the E.P.A.'s authority to control emissions. 
 This is utterly wrongheaded. The Supreme Court ruled two years ago that the E.P.A. has clear authority under the Clean Air Act to regulate greenhouse gases. It should be retained as both a goad and a backstop. 
 There is one obvious way to keep the E.P.A. from having to use this authority on a broad scale. And that is for Congress to pass a credible and comprehensive bill requiring economywide cuts in emissions.
 No one would be cheering louder than Ms. Jackson, who has neither the resources nor the ambition to regulate what would amount to 70 percent of the American economy. If Congress fails to act, she will have no choice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); POWER PLANTS (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); SUPREME COURTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); LISA P JACKSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2009



243 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2009

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1869 words

HEADLINE: Right There in Black and White? Identity, Assimilation and the Rsum

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER ACETO and HOLLY EPSTEIN OJALVO


HIGHLIGHT: Lesson Plan | Developing and reflecting on resumes that conceal identity to avoid discrimination. 

 BODY:
Overview | Why do some people conceal their identities to try to assimilate or circumvent prejudice? What are the effects of these decisions on the individuals and on society? In this lesson, students consider the practice of individuals reworking their resumes to avoid discrimination and then create two versions of resumes - authentic and edited - for literary or historical figures. 
Materials | Student journals and research materials
Warm-Up | Tell students to jot down a list in their journals of the various personal identifiers that create their identities. Prompt them to consider physical, cultural, racial, national and familial characteristics, along with gender, sexual orientation and religious belief, plus other key identifiers like political beliefs and defining personal interests, activities and abilities. When lists are complete, tell students to rank each one according to how integral it is to their identity and self-definition. 
Next, have students look at their top 3 identifiers. Ask: Would you be willing to veil or hide any of these elements if you thought that doing so might help you get accepted to a college or land a job? Why, or why not? What elements on a resume or application might "give away" these aspects of your identity? How might you change or hide this element so as to avoid prejudice? Why do you think people might edit their resumes to minimize personal identifiers?
Related | The New York Times columnist Michael Luo examines reports of African-American job applicants' perceiving the necessity to scrub their resumes of cultural markers in his article "'Whitening' the Resume": 
Tahani Tompkins was struggling to get callbacks for job interviews in the Chicago area this year when a friend made a suggestion: Change your name. Instead of Tahani, a distinctively African-American-sounding name, she began going by T. S. Tompkins in applications. [ ]
The dueling forces of assimilation and diversity have long battled for primacy in the American experience, most acutely among African-Americans. It's not clear that assimilation has gained an edge here in the waning days of the decade, but the women's behavior - "whitening" the resume - is certainly not isolated. Ms. Tompkins and Ms. Orr were among the more than two dozen college-educated blacks interviewed for an article about racial disparities in hiring published last week on the front page of The New York Times. A half-dozen said they had taken steps to hide their race, or at least dial back the level of "blackness" signaled in their resumes.
That seemed startling somehow, maybe because of the popular perception that affirmative action still confers significant advantages to black job candidates, a perception that is not borne out in studies. Moreover, statistics show even college-educated blacks suffering disproportionately in this jobless environment compared with whites, as that article reported.
But if playing down blackness is a common strategy born of necessity, perceived or real, it still takes a psychic toll, maybe a greater one now, as people calibrate identity more carefully.
Read the entire article with your class using the questions below.
Questions | For discussion and reading comprehension: 

        
How and why have some people attempted to "whiten" their resumes, according to the article?
        
What do studies show about affirmative action, diversity programs and racial disparities in hiring?
        
Why does Ms. Orr report that she "wrestled with what kind of message" this gave to her children? Is there a way to explain the apparently inconsistent messages that her mother gave her about black pride?
        
What are the similarities and differences between the example provided from "Roots" and the current examples given in the article?
        
What conclusions have the professors Kenji Yoshino and John L. Jackson Jr. drawn about the effects of "covering"?
Activity | To draw students' attention to the crux of the article, re-read this passage from the article to the class: "The dueling forces of assimilation and diversity have long battled for primacy in the American experience, most acutely among African-Americans. It's not clear that assimilation has gained an edge here in the waning days of the decade, but the women's behavior - "whitening" the resume - is certainly not isolated."
Tell students that they will work with a partner on a resume project. 
In literature classes, this project might be done with a literary work involving a character who experiences prejudice and struggles with identity issues (like "Black Boy," "The Woman Warrior" and even "The Great Gatsby"). In social studies or history, students might focus on a historical figure (real or invented) from a specific period who experienced prejudice; historical connections here could include women's suffrage, the civil rights movement, McCarthyism and so on.
Explain to the class that each pair will choose (or be assigned) a literary or historical figure, from the book or period you are studying, to create two different versions of a resume for that figure: first, a fully accurate, authentic version, and then a "scrubbed" version that omits or obscures any details or elements that would inhibit the figure from assimilating or "passing." 
Before proceeding, you may wish to prompt students to think more deeply and reflectively about the ethical issues involved in both discriminatory practices in hiring and misrepresenting one's background on a resume. For more practical considerations, you might also share with them some of the elements of effective professional resumes.
Students might also be assigned to more fully research the time, place and circumstances in which their literary or historical figure lived. What aspects of their backgrounds or experiences might stand out given the prevailing point of view of the era about the group(s) from which they come? What demographic clues might someone like this want to "scrub"? For instance, what might someone Irish in the United States of the 1850's, when employers' signed declared, "Help Wanted - No Irish Need Apply" want to excise from their resumes?
Provide each pair with two copies of the handout "Right There in Black and White: Creating Double Resumes" (PDF) to guide their work, along with the resources they need, like copies of the literary text, history textbooks and so on.
When resumes are complete, have all pairs present their work to the class or compile all of the resumes into a class booklet or slide show presentation. After all the presentations, hold a class discussion.
Ask: What issues and questions came up as you viewed these resumes? Did the two different versions seem to represent different people? How do you think the life of this person - whether real or invented - would have been affected if he or she had been able to pass? If the figures you chose to investigate were real people or literary characters rather than invented composites, would any of them have tried to "cover" in ways like this? Could doing so have changed any of their lives? Would people (historical contemporaries and students of history, or fellow characters and readers/critics, as appropriate) view these figures differently if they had obscured their identities? 
Conclude by leading a discussion on the practices of covering and the effects on people and society. Ask: What effects does pressure to assimilate have on individual groups and on society as a whole? What can be done to minimize discriminatory practices?
Going Further | Depending on the focus of your class, you may wish to do one or more of the following activities to take this activity further:

        
Students read Michael Luo's article "In Job Hunt, College Degree Can't Close Racial Gap," (on which his Week in Review article was based), and look through the nearly 500 reader comments, and/or the Charles Blow Op-Ed column "Black in the Age of Obama," on the impact of the Obama presidency on blacks in America and the related reader comments (also nearly 500). They then summarize both the article(s) and the responses, and write their own response to the following prompt: How do you respond to the anecdotes, data and arguments presented in the article(s)? Do the reader opinions change your own views on this topic? How would you respond to the readers whose views differ from yours?
        
Students read the chapter "Of Our Spiritual Strivings" in the book "The Souls of Black Folk," by W.E.B. Du Bois. They then write a response. Questions to respond to might include these: What is the "veil" that Du Bois describes? How does this "veil" affect his life and that of other "black folk?" Has anyone ever considered you a "problem"? How did you feel about and react to that? 
        
Students do another double resume project, focused on the president. (For starters, in the authentic version he might be identified as "Barack Hussein Obama," and in the "scrubbed" version he might be called Barry Obama.) They then reflect on his life story and what it means for America and the issues of assimilation, racism and racial tension, perhaps drawing on the articles by Michael Luo and Charles Blow. They might also do a double resume project for themselves and reflect on how they felt about the process.
Standards | From McREL, for grades 6-12: 
Behavioral Studies
1. Understands that group and cultural influences contribute to human development, identity and behavior.
2. Understands various meanings of social group, general implications of group membership and different ways that groups function.
3. Understands that interactions among learning, inheritance and physical development affect human behavior.
4. Understands conflict, cooperation, and interdependence among individuals, groups and institutions.
Historical Understanding
2. Understands the historical perspective.
Civics
11. Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values, political beliefs and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse American society.
14. Understands issues concerning the disparities between ideals and reality in American political and social life.
25. Understands issues regarding personal, political and economic rights.
26. Understands issues regarding the proper scope and limits of rights and the relationships among personal, political and economic rights.
United States History
29. Understands the struggle for racial and gender equality and for the extension of civil liberties.
31. Understands economic, social and cultural developments in the contemporary United States.
Working With Others
1. Contributes to the overall effort of a group.
4. Displays effective interpersonal communication skills.
Language Arts
1. Uses the general skills and strategies of the writing process.
2. Uses the stylistic and rhetorical aspects of writing.
4. Gathers and uses information for research purposes.
5. Uses the general skills and strategies of the reading process.
6. Uses reading skills and strategies to understand and interpret a variety of literary texts.
7. Uses reading skills and strategies to understand and interpret a variety of informational texts.

        
Why Is Race Hard to Talk About?
        
Should Harry Reid Resign?
        
Failure on Deficit Reduction Plan
        
Nov. 4, 2008 | Obama Is Elected President
        
Do You Trust Your Government?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (92%); HISTORY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); LITERATURE (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (77%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); STATISTICS (76%); WRITERS (76%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (71%); RELIGION (69%) discrimination; hiring; Obama; prejudice; race; resume; American History; Belief Systems; Biographies; Civics; Civil Rights; Culture and Identity; Current Events; Economics; Expository Writing; History of North America; Individual Rights; Language Arts; Lesson Plans; Personal Economics; Personal Writing; Race in America; Social Sciences; Social Studies

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2011



244 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Catch Of the Freezer

BYLINE: By ASTRID SCHOLZ, ULF SONESSON and PETER TYEDMERS. 
Astrid Scholz is the vice president of knowledge systems at Ecotrust in Portland, Ore. Ulf Sonesson is a researcher at the Swedish Institute for Food and Biotechnology. Peter Tyedmers is a professor at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia.

 BODY:
GO local. Eat organic. Buy fresh. Those food mantras continue to make waves among environmentally conscious consumers. But -- as is often the case in these climate-conscious times -- if the motivation is to truly make our diets more earth-friendly, then perhaps we need a new mantra: Buy frozen. 
 Several years ago, the three of us -- two ecological economists and one food system researcher -- teamed up in an effort to understand how to develop sustainable food systems to feed a planet of nine billion by 2050. As the focus of our study, we chose salmon, an important source of protein around the world and a food that is available nearly anywhere at any time, regardless of season or local supply. 
 We examined the salmon's life cycle: how the fish are caught in the wild, what they're fed when farmed, how they're processed and transported and how they're consumed.
 And what did we find in our research? When it comes to salmon, the questions of organic versus conventional and wild versus farmed matter less than whether the fish is frozen or fresh. In many cases, fresh salmon has about twice the environmental impact as frozen salmon. 
 The reason: Most salmon consumers live far from where the fish was caught or farmed, and the majority of salmon fillets they buy are fresh and shipped by air, which is the world's most carbon-intensive form of travel. Flying fillets from Alaska, British Columbia, Norway, Scotland or Chile so that 24 hours later they can be served ''fresh'' in New York adds an enormous climate burden, one that swamps the potential benefits of organic farming or sustainable fishing. (Disclosure: A nonprofit subsidiary of Ecotrust, the North Pacific Fisheries Trust, lends money to sustainable fisheries.)
 Fresh fish is wonderful and healthful, and if it's driven a reasonable distance to market, then its relative environmental impact is low. Fortunately for conscientious diners, when fish is flash-frozen at sea, its taste and quality is practically indistinguishable from fresh. More important, it can be moved thousands of miles by container ship, rail or even truck at much lower environmental impact than when air freighted. If seafood-loving Japanese consumers, who get most of their fish via air shipments, were to switch to 75 percent frozen salmon, it would have a greater ecological benefit than all of Europe and North America eating only locally farmed or caught salmon. 
 Is the future full of fish sticks? No. But when it comes to eating seafood from halfway around the world, we need to get over our fetish for fresh. With the challenges facing the world's oceans mounting, buying frozen is a powerful choice that concerned eaters everywhere can make.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEAN MORRIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN MARKET (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (89%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (89%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); SEAFOOD (89%); FISHES (89%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (78%); WILDLIFE (73%); FISHERIES (73%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MARINE SHIPPING (69%); MARINE VESSELS (68%); OCEANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (93%); ALASKA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



245 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 830 words

PERSON: Otto Lambsdorff 

HEADLINE: Otto Lambsdorff Dies at 82; Shaped Nazi Victims Fund

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Otto Lambsdorff, a former leader of a small but pivotal German political party and his country's chief architect of a program that paid reparations to hundreds of thousands of Nazi-era slave laborers, died in Bonn on Saturday. He was 82.
 The death was confirmed by Karl-Matthias Klause, a spokesman for the German Embassy in Washington. 
 Mr. Lambsdorff, a fierce fiscal conservative, was one of the most influential leaders of the Free Democratic Party for more than 20 years and its chairman from 1988 to 1993. The party, which rarely received more than 8 percent of the vote in national elections, provided the swing vote in one coalition government after another. Because of his political sway and his economic expertise, Mr. Lambsdorff was West Germany's minister of economics from 1977 to 1984.
 Tainted by a scandal in 1984, Mr. Lambsdorff resigned as economics minister, but retained power in his party and was still held in such esteem that the government chose him in 1998 to direct the negotiations leading to the historic slave-labor reparations agreement. 
 Known as ''the count,'' a reference to the title that one of his ancestors had received from a Russian czar, Mr. Lambsdorff was eloquent and adamant about free-market policy. Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, the leader of the Social Democratic Party, chose him as economics minister in 1977 because he felt that Mr. Lambsdorff would bring a pro-business voice to an otherwise left-leaning coalition. 
 But in the early 1980s, Mr. Lambsdorff assailed the government's drift toward what he considered an overweening welfare state. His attack paved the way for the Free Democratic Party to shift allegiance to the conservative Christian Democrats. And in 1982 the new chancellor, Helmut Kohl, rewarded Mr. Lambsdorff with the economics ministry he had held under Mr. Schmidt. 
 Two years later, however, Mr. Lambsdorff resigned because of a scandal involving illegal political contributions to his party by Flick, a conglomerate with shares in more than 300 companies. Mr. Lambsdorff was acquitted of all corruption charges. He was convicted only of tax evasion, a misdemeanor, and was fined about $100,000. That did not prevent him being elected chairman of his party. 
 And it did not prevent Chancellor Gerhard Schroder from choosing him in 1998 to negotiate with the United States government on the slave-labor reparations program. 
 Several dozen major German companies were facing a raft of class-action lawsuits filed in American courts on behalf of Jewish slave laborers and some non-Jewish forced laborers who had received minimal pay. 
 They had been forced, for example, to work in munitions factories and mining pits for 14-hour shifts with no food. They rolled boulders up steep slopes and were shot if they fell. Near Buchenwald, they lived in deep tunnels while building V-2 missiles, and they slept on straw and were denied drinking water, ventilation and sanitary facilities.
 Working with Mr. Lambsdorff on what would eventually be a $5 billion settlement was Stuart E. Eizenstat, a former under secretary of state for economic affairs in the Clinton administration.
 ''Count Lambsdorff was a great German patriot in the best sense of the term,'' Mr. Eizenstat said Monday. ''He was one of the earliest government officials in postwar Germany who was imbued with the conviction that Germany must face its past and do justice for Holocaust survivors. At the same time, he had to make sure that the German companies and the German government would contribute.''
 In the end, the former slave laborers received $7,500 each; those who had been forced laborers received $2,500 each.
 ''It was imperfect justice,'' Mr. Eizenstat said, ''but without the settlement the victims would have had great difficulty ever recovering in a court of law. Count Lambsdorff made it possible for people to be paid within their lifetimes, and for their suffering to be recognized.''
 Otto Friedrich Wilhelm Freiherr von der Wenge, Graf (Count) Lambsdorff, was born in Aachen, Germany, on Dec. 20, 1926. His family had spent centuries in the service of Russian czars, but had returned to Germany during the Russian Revolution.
 Drafted into the German Army in 1944, Mr. Lambsdorff lost his lower left leg in an Allied air attack. After the war, he worked in banking and insurance. He joined the Free Democratic Party in 1951 and began rising through its ranks. He was elected to the German Parliament in 1972.
 In 1991, during the Persian Gulf war, some American officials voiced anger at the German government, accusing it of moving slowly to prevent some German companies from supplying Iraq with arms and poison gas plants. 
 Mr. Lambsdorff was fiercely critical of those suppliers. ''These companies knew what they were doing,'' he told an audience in Washington. ''They did so in violation of existing German laws.'' 
 Why? ''Greed,'' he said. 
 ''Such things must not and will not recur,'' he said. ''Never again!'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Otto Lambsdorff, left, with Gerhard Schroder in 2001. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDRA WINKLER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SLAVERY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); BOARD CHANGES (75%); TAX FRAUD (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); SCANDALS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%); LITIGATION (67%); MISDEMEANORS (67%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); CRIMINAL FINES (66%); CLASS ACTIONS (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (61%); ACQUITTAL (61%); TAX LAW (60%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FREE DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (54%)

GERHARD SCHRODER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

CATEGORY: Philanthropy, Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



246 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Muslim Prayers and Renewal Near Ground Zero

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL and SHARAF MOWJOOD

 BODY:
On that still-quiet Tuesday morning, the sales staff was in a basement room eating breakfast, waiting to open the doors to the first shoppers at 10 a.m. 
 There was no immediate sign of the fiery cataclysm that erupted overhead starting at 8:46. But out of a baby-blue sky suddenly stained with smoke, a plane's landing-gear assembly the size of a World War II torpedo crashed through the roof and down through two empty selling floors of the Burlington Coat Factory.
 The Sept. 11, 2001, attack killed 2,752 people downtown and doomed the five-story building at 45 Park Place, two blocks north of the World Trade Center, keeping it abandoned for eight years. 
 But for months now, out of the public eye, an iron gate rises every Friday afternoon, and with the outside rumblings of construction at ground zero as a backdrop, hundreds of Muslims crowd inside, facing Mecca in prayer and listening to their imam read in Arabic from the Koran. 
 The building has no sign that hints at its use as a Muslim prayer space, but these modest beginnings point to a far grander vision: an Islamic center near the city's most hallowed piece of land that would stand as one of ground zero's more unexpected and striking neighbors. 
 The location was precisely a key selling point for the group of Muslims who bought the building in July. A presence so close to the World Trade Center, ''where a piece of the wreckage fell,'' said Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf, the cleric leading the project, ''sends the opposite statement to what happened on 9/11.''
 ''We want to push back against the extremists,'' added Imam Feisal, 61.
 Although organizers have sought to avoid publicizing their project because they say plans are too preliminary, it has drawn early encouragement from city officials and the surrounding neighborhood. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said through a spokesman that Imam Feisal told him of the project last September at a celebration to observe the end of Ramadan. As for whether Mr. Bloomberg supported it, the spokesman, Andrew Brent, said, ''If it's legal, the building owners have a right to do what they want.''
 The mayor's director of the Office of Immigrant Affairs, Fatima Shama, went further. ''We as New York Muslims have as much of a commitment to rebuilding New York as anybody,'' Ms. Shama said. Imam Feisal's wife, Daisy Khan, serves on an advisory team for the National September 11 Memorial and Museum, and Lynn Rasic, a spokeswoman for the memorial, said, ''The idea of a cultural center that strengthens ties between Muslims and people of all faiths and backgrounds is positive.'' 
 Those who have worked with him say if anyone could pull off what many regard to be a delicate project, it would be Imam Feisal, whom they described as having built a career preaching tolerance and interfaith understanding. 
 ''He subscribes to my credo: 'Live and let live,' '' said Rabbi Arthur Schneier, spiritual leader of Park East Synagogue on East 67th Street. 
 As a Sufi, Imam Feisal follows a path of Islam focused more on spiritual wisdom than on strict ritual, and as a bridge builder, he is sometimes focused more on cultivating relations with those outside his faith than within it.
 But though the imam is adamant about what his intentions for the site are, there is anxiety among those involved or familiar with the project that it could very well become a target for anti-Muslim attacks. 
 Joan Brown Campbell, director of the department of religion at the Chautauqua Institution in upstate New York and former general secretary of the National Council of Churches of Christ U.S.A., who is a supporter of Imam Feisal, acknowledged the possibility of a backlash from those opposed to a Muslim presence at ground zero. 
 But, she added: ''Building so close is owning the tragedy. It's a way of saying: 'This is something done by people who call themselves Muslims. We want to be here to repair the breach, as the Bible says.' '' 
 The F.B.I. said Imam Feisal had helped agents reach out to the Muslim population after Sept. 11. ''We've had positive interactions with him in the past,'' said an agency spokesman, Richard Kolk. Alice Hoagland of Las Gatos, Calif., whose son, Mark Bingham, was killed in the hijacked plane that crashed in Pennsylvania, said, ''It's quite a bold step buying a piece of land adjacent to ground zero,'' but she said she considered plans for the site ''a noble effort.''
 On a recent Friday, worshipers in the old Burlington Coat Factory heard Imam Feisal's call for spiritual purity during the time of the hajj, the annual pilgrimage to Mecca. 
 ''We like Imam Feisal, the way he presents the philosophy of the true Islam that I call it,'' said one of the congregants, Mohammed Abdullah, an investment banker who traveled from Washington for the service. 
 The location is not designated a mosque, but rather an overflow prayer space for another mosque, Al Farah at 245 West Broadway in TriBeCa, where Imam Feisal is the spiritual leader.
 Built in 1923, the building at 45 Park Place was bought by Sy Syms, the discount retailer, and a partner, Irving Pomerantz, in 1968, and became one of the early Syms stores. The store closed in 1990, the partners parted ways, and the Pomerantz family then leased the building to the Burlington Coat Factory. 
 On Sept. 11, the store, with 80 employees, was one of 250 Burlington outlets nationwide owned by the Milstein family. That morning, recalled Stephen Milstein, the company's former general manager and vice president, the staff was in the basement when a piece of a plane plunged through the roof, either from American Airlines Flight 11 crashing into the north tower at 8:46 a.m., or United Airlines Flight 175 crashing into the south tower at 9:03. 
 Kukiko Mitani, whose husband, Stephen Pomerantz, owned the building at the time, tried to sell it for years, at one time asking $18 million. But when the recession hit, she sold it in July to a real estate investment firm, Soho Properties, for $4.85 million in cash, records show. One of the investors was the Cordoba Initiative, an interfaith group founded by Imam Feisal. 
 ''It's really to provide a place of peace, a place of services and solutions for the community which is always looking for interfaith dialogue,'' said Sharif El-Gamal, chairman and chief executive of Soho Properties. 
 The patched-up roof was easily visible on a recent tour of the building, along with evidence of its sudden evacuation: food bags still in a fifth-floor staff refrigerator and, most eerily, a log sheet for the testing of the emergency alarm system that shows a sign-in signature for 9/11 but no sign-out.
 Records kept by the city's Department of Buildings show anonymous complaints for illegal construction and blocked exits at the site. Inspectors tried to check but were unable to gain access, so the complaints, though still open, were listed as ''resolved'' under city procedures, according to an agency spokeswoman, Carly Sullivan. 
 But worshipers are legally occupying the building, where retail space is offered for lease, once a week under temporary permits of assembly through December, Ms. Sullivan said.
 With 50,000 square feet of air rights, Imam Feisal said, the location, with enough financing, could support an ambitious project of $150 million, akin to the Chautauqua Institution, the 92 Street Y or the Jewish Community Center.
 Joy Levitt, executive director of the Jewish Community Center, said the group would be proud to be a model for Imam Feisal at ground zero. ''For the J.C.C. to have partners in the Muslim community that share our vision of pluralism and tolerance would be great,'' she said. 
 Mr. El-Gamal agreed. ''What happened that day,'' he said, ''was not Islam.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The prayer space was once a store that was damaged on 9/11. (A1)
The building was abandoned after a plane's landing-gear assembly hit it during the World Trade Center attacks.
 The prayer space is envisioned as the first step in the creation of an Islamic center. ''We want to push back against the extremists,'' said Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A39) MAP: The location was a selling point to the building's buyers. (A39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); RELIGION (91%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (75%); RAMADAN (73%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); WORLD WAR II (56%)

COMPANY: BURLINGTON COAT FACTORY WAREHOUSE CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



247 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; RESTAURANT REVIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Wait, There's More?

BYLINE: By SAM SIFTON

 BODY:
THERE is a moment at the beginning of most meals at Madangsui, Manhattan's best Korean barbecue restaurant, when someone at the table begins to laugh.
 A small army of workers has been filling the table with small plates of banchan, the side dishes central to Korean restaurant cuisine, for what appears to be a minute straight. They add to this bounty bubbling iron bowls of bean paste casserole and steamed eggs, and bring vast piles of bright green lettuce and slaw, small bowls of sesame oil and salt, soybean paste and the fiery hot sauce known as kochujang. 
 They offer savory oyster pancakes, kimchi pancakes, steaming piles of cellophane noodles, bottles of beer, glasses of tea and kettles of soju, a kind of low-alcohol Korean vodka. The table fills and fills and fills, and at a certain point it begins to be ridiculous -- there's no visible table anymore! -- and someone starts to giggle at the crazy excess, the sheer weight of the experience. 
 Korea was poor for much of the last century. It spent almost 40 years as a colony under the boot of Japan. It was physically divided in the aftermath of World War II and suffered mightily in the war that followed. None of this was much good for the feeding of its citizenry. It should be no surprise that when prosperity finally came to the peninsula in the 1970s (came to South Korea at least), so too came a groaning board. As Americans well know, nothing says economic security like the inevitability of leftovers.
 Madangsui is not much to look at, really, just a long fluorescent-illuminated room with chocolate accents, almost barnlike, with exhaust hoods over the tables and a carpet down the center, leading to the tea station, the bathrooms and the kitchen. The clientele runs to groups of celebratory young Koreans texting as they eat, office parties and passers-by from local hotels; it is hardly a clear picture of fine dining in New York. But jiminy crickets, is the dining fine. 
 There is kimchi among the banchan, of course: Napa cabbage fermented with chili peppers and salt, Korea's national dish. There is also a zucchini version, a bok choy one, a wonderful bouquet of tiny pickled scallion shoots. There are cold boiled bean sprouts fragrant with sesame oil, and salty tangles of wakame dressed with sweet vinegar, soft on the tongue, a kiss in a rock club, right after the show. There is boiled eggplant; dried shredded squid fried with hot chili sauce; occasionally there is a strange cold cabbage dish with bits of hot dog in it, or a crab split in two. A fellow could pick at these with his chopsticks for an hour and be pleased with the time spent. 
 There is raw beef as well, in a dish called yook hwe, slightly frozen and run through a grinder, then seasoned with sesame oil and raw egg: it's a beef tartare, essentially, that literally melts in the mouth.
 The real purpose of the restaurant, though, is barbecue, to grill your own food right there at the table, on the gas grill built into its center, still covered in banchan, not yet lighted. That is why you are here. And you will get to it in due course: to fiery marinated pork and sweet, tender beef wrapped in lettuce and eaten as candy or tacos. 
 But first, a warning: responsibility for the pace of a meal at Madangsui belongs to the diner alone. Service at the restaurant is brisk, almost brutally efficient. 
 Order some appetizers to be sure. There is a long list on the menu, including steamed edamame, fried tofu and the Korean dumplings known as mandoo. Ignore these. Ask instead for some of those pancakes and for the restaurant's silky, mushroom-studded jap chae, cellophane noodles stir-fried with soy sauce, vegetables and a few strips of beef. These, paired with that salty, voluptuous oyster pancake, are the correct introduction to the restaurant's big, addictive flavors; they help to align the brain.
 Order, too, a bowl of kimchi soup, bubbling and restorative in its heat; alternatively, you might try the mool naeng myun, a pile of thin buckwheat noodles in an icy, bracing broth.
 But make sure not to ask for your barbecue, not yet. Diners who order soups and appetizers at the same time as main dishes at Madangsui will receive, far more often than not, the main dishes in advance of the appetizers. This throws a wrench into the works. Be firm on this point and be happy. Praemonitus praemunitus is what they say in Latin class: forewarned is forearmed. 
 The barbecue is excellent: fresh, glistening butterflied short rib, thin-sliced ribeye, brisket, tongue. There is pork belly and there are giant mushrooms; there are jumbo shrimp. Some meats are served plain, for dressing afterward in a sheet of sesame oil run through with salt and pepper, with a dash of bean paste. Others are served in marinades, in either a soy-based, fruit-thickened number that is almost reminiscent of teriyaki or a garlicky take on kochujang that tingles in the mouth, leads to sweat and more laughter. It is particularly good on pork. Best, perhaps, is the plain butterflied short rib known as saeng galbi. 
 The waitress redistributes the wealth on the table in such a way as to clear the stainless steel top for the grill. A runner then removes the top, and lights the gas hob below. This service tic is left over from the days when the grills were most often powered by glowing charcoal, brought in buckets from the kitchen by men with thick leather gloves. (There are still Korean restaurants in Manhattan that use live fire, most notably Kom Tang Soot Bul on West 32nd Street, which is a fine place to eat but does not match Madangsui for quality.) 
 The waitress then uses tongs to place the meat on the grill top -- a kind of modified broiler pan -- and leaves it to bubble and spit. She will soon return to cut it with sharp scissors, and to turn it just so. Traditionally, waiters are responsible for the grilling in Korean restaurants. At Madangsui this can mean an almost manic attention to the progress of each piece of protein, a lot of prodding with the tongs. If you like a little more char on that bulgogi of yours, announce that you'll cook it yourself. No eyebrow stays raised in the presence of grilling self-confidence.
 Now use your chopsticks to drag a piece of cooked meat through the mixture of sesame oil, salt and pepper. Place it on a piece of fresh romaine cupped in your opposite hand in the manner of a tortilla. Add to this some banchan, some slaw, perhaps a dot or two of bean paste or kochujang. Wrap and eat: heaven in Midtown, with cold beer besides.
 Dessert's an orange cut into eighths. It tastes of magic and happiness.
 Madangsui
 35 West 35th Street (Fifth Avenue), Midtown; (212) 564-9333; madangsui.com.
 ATMOSPHERE Informal, welcoming, a little smoky.
 SOUND LEVEL Moderate.
 RECOMMENDED DISHES Savory pancakes, kimchi soup, noodles in cold broth, yook hwe, saeng galbi, bulgogi, dweiji bulgogi.
 WINE LIST You'll only be disappointed by it. Instead have OB beer and some cucumber soju.
 PRICE RANGE Appetizers and soups, $4.99 to $17.99; barbecue, $20.99 to $27.99.
 HOURS Daily, 11:30 a.m. to 11 p.m. Galbi for breakfast. 
 RESERVATIONS Friday and Saturday nights can be busy midevening, and reservations are recommended a few days ahead. Otherwise, call on the day you're coming.
 CREDIT CARDS All major cards.
 WHEELCHAIR ACCESS Restaurant is all on one level. Entrance is accessible, but bathroom is not. 
 WHAT THE STARS MEAN Ratings range from zero to four stars and reflect the reviewer's reaction to food, ambience and service, with price taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change. 
 This restaurant was rated one star. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: YOURS, MINE, OURS: The barbecue grill is the center of the action at Madangsui in Midtown. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KRISTIN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); WORLD WAR II (72%); BEER & ALE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



248 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Balancing Football and Academic Success

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Always sit up front in class. That has been Colt McCoy's rule for himself in every class he has taken at the University of Texas. 
 ''Does that sound weird?'' he asked a former C-plus back-row slacker who was taking notes. 
 Not really. Attention to detail, every second of every demanding day, helped McCoy earn a grade point average of 3.20 while starring at quarterback. His next game will be the national championship meeting with Alabama next month. 
 McCoy was one of 16 admirable seniors who found ways to balance football and academics and became finalists for the William V. Campbell Trophy, given by the National Football Foundation to the top scholar-athlete in the United States. At a dinner in New York on Tuesday evening, the award was given to Tim Tebow, the quarterback from Florida who won the 2007 Heisman Trophy.
 McCoy and Tebow are also among the five finalists for the Heisman Trophy, for the best college football player in the country, to be awarded Saturday in New York. 
 Tebow has earned a grade point average of 3.66 while playing football, including up to 20 hours a week studying film. He is so intense that Coach Urban Meyer has kicked him out of the bunker a few times just to make sure he did not burn out. Yet Tebow, like McCoy, found ways to do volunteer work, too.
 These 16 seniors must live by some alternate clock, because they seem to cram more into a day than most college students are able to do. 
 The Division I players described pressure to be part of every team activity, while the players at the more modest levels of college football seemed to feel a bit more personal leeway to take care of academics. But all of them played well and studied well, or they would not have been finalists.
 The top scholar-athlete honor, formerly the Draddy Trophy, has been renamed for Bill Campbell, a two-way player at Columbia from 1959 through 1961 and later the Columbia coach and now the chairman at Intuit. Each of the 16 finalists will receive an $18,000 postgraduate scholarship; some will be trying to play pro football next year while several others will be in medical school.
 McCoy said he occasionally ran into teachers ''who wanted nothing to do with football players.'' But he would sit up front to show he was paying attention, and if he could not make a class he would tell the teacher. ''You work it out, you do your homework on the road,'' McCoy said. More than once, a teacher praised him at the end of a semester, perhaps an acknowledgment that he or she had changed the perception of McCoy, or of college football players.
 Joe Pawelek, a linebacker from Baylor with a 3.71 grade point average, recalled how he had missed some spring practice work because of a class in entrepreneurial finance -- ''a no-brainer,'' he called the decision; he needed the course for his degree in finance and economics. 
 ''The coaches kind of understand, but they also wish you could be there,'' Pawelek said, ''Honestly? It's an everyday thing. Do I relax? Do I work out? Do I study?'' He said his coaches never pressured him -- ''but they might have been thinking it,'' he added.
 Eric Decker, the leading receiver at Minnesota, on crutches after tearing up his left ankle in midseason, has a 3.42 grade point average in marketing. The unsubtle demands of Big Ten football made him learn to manage his time. Plus, the weight room had a special session at 6 a.m. -- when there are no classes or labs. 
 Jarrell NeSmith, a tight end from Division II Tusculum College in Tennessee with a 3.84 grade point average, said the coaches were ''a little sketchy'' when he needed to miss a workout in his first years. Having watched his mother, Sabrina Smith, work as a nurse, he has long wanted to be a doctor. When labs were scheduled in the afternoon, he was there.
 Blaine Westemeyer, a Division III all-American offensive tackle at Augustana College in Illinois, has a 3.93 grade point average in biochemistry. He said his coaches understood when he took a program in cellular protein research in Utah. ''The Division I schools want their players on campus,'' he said.
 Beau Kildow, a wide receiver for Morningside College in Iowa, has a 4.0 average in chemistry and biology. He said, ''Some Friday nights you want to get some sleep, but you go to the lab.'' Or he would try to study in his apartment, which he shared with six roommates. ''They're good guys,'' he said. 
 The 16 finalists played at vastly different levels, but they had one thing in common -- an air of calm and discipline that floated outward from the dais Tuesday. The next time I am tempted to snicker at the concept of scholar-athletes, I will think about the grade point averages and the majors of the 16 finalists. Just guessing that sitting up front was the least of it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Texas quarterback Colt McCoy at the National Football Foundation dinner for top scholar-athletes Tuesday in New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); GRADES & GRADING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); VOLUNTEERS (64%)

COMPANY: INTUIT INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (84%)

TICKER: INTU (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



249 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2052 words

HEADLINE: Lions and Tigers and Debt

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
ON an April night in 1966, Kay O'Reilly, a dishy 22-year-old English ''air hostess'' for TWA -- her job title back in the ''Mad Men'' decade -- swept into the sprawling wonderland of Maxwell's Plum. 
 The restaurant embodied not only the city's culinary revolution, but the sexual one as well, for it was New York's most flamboyant singles bar. So it wasn't entirely surprising that she came under the eye of Warner LeRoy himself -- the very large, very charismatic 31-year-old owner, a canny showman who was given to wearing screaming paisley-patterned outfits. 
 He promptly uttered his first words to her: ''Hello, I'm Warner LeRoy, and I'm going to marry you.'' He persisted. And persisted. And she became his second wife in 1970, she recalled recently, on the seventh floor of Carnegie Hall. (''I was Catholic,'' she said, ''and somehow he found a rabbi to perform a Jewish ceremony involving an O'Reilly.'') 
 The marriage would land her a role in the excellent adventure of Warner LeRoy's Tavern on the Green, and then, this fall, in the muddle of its harrowing collapse. On a recent evening as scurrying waiters assembled a banquet in the landmark restaurant in Central Park, Kay LeRoy, one of its owners, was preparing for Tavern's bankruptcy sale next month. Accompanied by the owner of an auction house, she meandered through artifacts from what some are calling the fall of the house of LeRoy. 
 The once-thrilling saga of the twinkly-tree restaurant has devolved into a breathtaking cautionary tale. As she navigated the mirrored time warp of cut crystal, animal sculptures and rare chestnut paneling, Ms. LeRoy shared her memories of the restaurant's relicts. 
 She had scouted many of them with Mr. LeRoy, a scion of Hollywood royalty whose father, Mervyn, produced ''The Wizard of Oz.'' Mr. LeRoy left a $48 million estate at his death at the age of 65 in 2001; Ms. LeRoy had been divorced from him two years before. 
 ''It is very difficult to see it all go,'' she said in her Tunbridge Wells lilt. ''Everything here is a memory. Hard to believe all this won't exist anymore.'' 
 And even harder to believe it could all end so badly just before the holiday season, traditionally the most joyous, frenzied and profitable time for the restaurant that for years generated the nation's highest sales. The auction, starting Jan. 13, could help placate a ravenous pack of more than 450 creditors, of which Ms. LeRoy happens to be the largest. She lent $1.9 million to the company headed by her daughter, Jennifer Oz LeRoy, enabling the restaurant to meet its payroll. ''Our workers are the heart of Tavern,'' Kay LeRoy said. 
 But the city, itself a creditor owed $76,923.08, claims ownership of dozens of auction artifacts along with what may be the restaurant's greatest asset: its name, valued at $19 million. 
 That claim is one of several simmering Tavern disputes that now fill a swirl of courtrooms. As the arguments metastasize, some 400 employees face an uncertain future. No new contract has been concluded between their union -- the Hotel Trades Council -- and Dean J. Poll, who in August was awarded the new 20-year license to run Tavern beginning in 2010. Nor has Mr. Poll, the operator of the Boathouse in Central Park, signed a contract with Tavern's landlord, the Parks Department. 
 ''This is all so heartbreaking for the people here,'' Ms. LeRoy said. ''Where can you get a job in January in this economy?''
 She paused, then pointed to a mossy fin-de-siecle stone lion in the restaurant's main corridor. ''We liked this because it looked like the cowardly lion,'' she said, recalling that she and Mr. LeRoy had seen the sculpture in a shop window in London, and loved it madly. She added, ''We traveled the world looking for things that belonged at Tavern.'' 
 Ms. LeRoy was walking with Arlan Ettinger, the president of Guernsey's Auction House, who said, ''It is a bit humbling when you think that this is a place that touched the lives of millions.'' It has had nearly 20 million patrons since Mr. LeRoy reopened it in 1976.
 Ms. LeRoy created the restaurant's lucrative gift shop and was a dedicated collaborator in the assemblage of its down-the-rabbit-hole design elements with Warner, Tavern's Mad Hatter. 
 For five years during Tavern's gestation she scoured the country for orphaned shards of Tiffany glass, which artists would fashion into the stained-glass windows and rows of chandeliers that gave Tavern the opulent aspect of a Central Park sultanate. 
 Soon she was pointing out 10 historic chandeliers -- some by Baccarat, others by Waterford, and one dating from 1790 -- in a formerly dusty, gray, rat-infested courtyard that Mr. LeRoy proudly showed to her in 1975. ''This will be the Crystal Room,'' he decreed with customary panache. And it was. 
 Now the whole sui generis collection must go: The silver candelabras. The gilded copper weathervanes. The baby grand piano whose ivories were once tickled by Eddy Duchin. The carved pair of white-painted wooden elk. The samovars. The three-foot-tall carved monkey from the Black Forest. The 19th-century Murano chandelier in the Bride's Room. 
 Not to mention the mural on the West side of the Crystal Room, featuring a tiny painted likeness of the maestro himself, dancing ecstatically as a topiary figure.
 Even Tavern's exterior topiaries, including King Kong, must be gaveled away. (Ms. LeRoy said that Kong's debut at Tavern was, of course, hosted by the actress Fay Wray.) 
 ''These are so much more than beautiful pieces of art,'' Mr. Ettinger said. ''They have an extraordinary history.'' Indeed, Ms. LeRoy has a special fondness for the two crystal chandeliers and the seven-foot-tall Venetian glass mirror in the Terrace Room, where after walking across the street from the Dakota, John Lennon would celebrate his birthdays. 
 Also part of the sale to be held in the Crystal Room -- which will feature absentee Internet bidding -- will be the glass ceilings from Maxwell's Plum and the Russian Tea Room, which Mr. LeRoy once owned as well, and a treasure trove of his sequined, flocked and otherwise caparisoned outfits.
 In summoning up his memory so frequently, Ms. LeRoy noted that she does not want to be defined by their 1999 divorce, in which she was awarded $15 million and a $5 million house. As Kay O'Reilly, she departed her native Kent in England at the age of 15 when her mother died ''and I left school,'' she said. ''I was on my own.'' As an au pair in Paris she acquired fluent French -- a language that landed her in first-class cabin service at TWA -- ''but I never went to college.'' 
 Ms. LeRoy finally remedied that in 2007 when she earned a bachelor's degree with honors from New York University. Now 66, she is a graduate student at Sarah Lawrence. 
 Before he died, Mr. LeRoy named their daughter Jennifer, now 30, chief executive of the restaurant company. In recent weeks, she has been exploring new business opportunities in Florida and other East Coast locations. But her mother remained a presence at Tavern on the Green, seen by some as a living embodiment of Tavern's story. Everyone from managers to table runners greets her with familiarity. Kay LeRoy was heavily involved in the application to renew the operating license earlier this year, and said the Parks Department's decision ''was a shock.'' 
 ''It's tragic that we're all going to split,'' Ms. LeRoy said softly as she pondered the Tavern diaspora. ''The city will realize it has lost something precious. And by the time it realizes that? It will be too late.'' 
 Nonetheless, she insisted that the family will have a new beginning. ''The LeRoys are not going away, we will be welcoming New Yorkers somewhere else,'' she said. ''We know better than anyone how to give a party.'' 
 But as December unspools, the messy transition at Tavern on the Green moves ahead inexorably. One major issue has finally been resolved: according to court papers, Judge Allan L. Gropper in the United States Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan ordered late last month that the LeRoys' license be extended from Jan. 31 to Feb. 14, long enough for the family to remove items it owns and to conduct the auction. The LeRoys must pay $123,288 for the privilege. (The city had wanted the LeRoys to depart Jan. 1.) 
 The court order even insists that LeRoy employees ''will not disparage in any manner'' Mr. Poll's future restaurant to Tavern customers who are booking future events. 
 The meter is running on many other dust-ups, adding to the legal costs that will paid out of money that creditors might otherwise receive. For example, seven lawyers were arrayed at a federal court hearing last week before Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum, who will decide whether the city, or the LeRoys, owns the trademark on the name Tavern on the Green. The city managed to shift the dispute from bankruptcy court to a federal court that has superior jurisdiction.
 Meanwhile, the creditors, who are owed $8 million, have taken aim at the city. Norman N. Kinel, lawyer for 450 of them, has savaged the city for asserting its ownership of the Tavern trademark and mounting ''a scorched-earth battle against Tavern and its creditors,'' a charge the city has dismissed.
 And a new confrontation looms over the items to be auctioned off for the benefit of the creditors: It appears that Mr. Poll hopes to inherit many fixtures that the LeRoys planned to sell. 
 Judge Gropper's order lists 40 items at Tavern as Parks Department property, including 942 upholstered chairs that are listed on the Guernsey's Web site as being among the Tavern curios to be auctioned. 
 In a memorandum to the Parks Department from Mr. Poll's lawyer, Barry B. LePatner, obtained by The New York Times, Mr. Poll said that the LeRoys ''intend to auction what appear to be numerous items which the current operator is not entitled to remove.'' 
 Mr. LePatner said the memorandum was ''sent in furtherance of our ongoing negotiations with the city for the new licensing agreement,'' but declined further comment. 
 Mr. Poll contends that the LeRoys failed to abide by a 1985 license agreement that required them to notify the Parks Department about any new fixtures purchased for Tavern on the Green. Since 1985, the LeRoys have renovated portions of the Pavilion Room, the Crystal Room and the bar, and added other amenities. 
 In addition to the chairs, the items in dispute could include new mural panels in the Pavilion Room, which bear a small portrait of Ms. LeRoy's son, Max, who died in 2005 at the age of 30 in a motorcycle accident. Nearby, on a door panel, there is a painting of a diminutive Central Park carousel, a favorite of Ms. LeRoy's, attached to a small painted tag that says ''Kay.'' It is listed among the Guernsey's auction lots. 
 ''Nothing owned by the city, or listed as city inventory, is being sold,'' said Keith N. Costa, Tavern's bankruptcy lawyer. 
 And the artifacts bought after 1985 involve ''an insignificant list of inventory,'' said Elizabeth Austin, Kay LeRoy's bankruptcy lawyer. Any dispute would result ''from an inaccurate reading of the license agreement.''
 A spokeswoman for the department, Vickie Karp, said, ''we will review the items they plan to sell prior to the auction date to ensure they do not sell anything that belongs to the city.'' 
 Mr. Ettinger declined to estimate the total auction value or that of any individual items, saying it was premature. 
 ''Prices will really depend on the quality,'' said Mario Buatta, the interior designer who was a regular visitor at Tavern and a guest at Mr. LeRoy's emphatically decorated apartment. ''There is still money out there, and for many this will be a memory sale, a once-in-a-lifetime chance to recall their marriage proposal -- or to see things you just don't see anymore. Everything is so beige and contemporary now, and people are yearning for outrageous fantasy. I'm thinking about a couple of those chandeliers myself.''
 Since Guernsey's was drawn into the Tavern vortex so recently, it has not yet had time to produce a catalog detailing the provenance or history of auction items. If the decor might charitably be called eccentrically eclectic -- or uncharitably called bizarre -- Ms. LeRoy had no difficulty in giving it a label. 
 ''It is,'' she said, ''Warner.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: KALEIDOSCOPE: Some of the elements of Tavern on the Green's decor that are expected to be sold at auction next month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TAVERN ON THE GREEN (TABLE AND JOCKEY STATUE)) (pg.D1)
MEMORIES: Kay LeRoy, top, the ex-wife of Tavern on the Green's longtime operator, Warner LeRoy, prepares for the auction of its artifacts on Jan. 13, including chandeliers in the Chestnut Room, right, and the stained-glass panel below. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TAVERN ON THE GREEN) (pg.D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); DRINKING PLACES (75%); MARRIAGE (73%); AUCTIONS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); WILD CATS (67%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (66%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



250 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths SCANLON, PETER R.

 BODY:
SCANLON--Peter R.,78, died on December 3, 2009 after a long battle with cancer. He was born in the Bronx, one of eight children of the late John T. Scanlon, Jr. and Loretta D. Ryan. 
All of his siblings predeceased him. Pete graduated from All Hallows Grammar School, All Hallows High School and Iona College. He immediately joined Lybrand, Ross Bros. and Montgomery which became Coopers and Lybrand and is now Price Waterhouse Coopers. He proudly served for four years in the US Navy during the Korean Conflict. Pete returned to Lybrand and was elected a partner in 1966 and several years later he became managing partner of the New York Office, then the New York region. He served on the firm council for many years and was appointed vice-chairman of domestic operations. In 1982, Pete was elected to the first of three terms as chairman and CEO of Coopers & Lybrand. He retired in 1991. Prior to his retirement and relocation to Florida, Pete was a Trustee of Iona College for ten years. He was an honorary partner of the New York City Partnership and served as a Trustee of the Economic Club, the Catholic University and the Gregorian University. He was a visiting committee member of MIT-Sloan School, the Conference Board and in 1986 was the Corporate Sponsor of the New York City Partnership Summer Jobs Program. Pete was the recipient of several awards from Iona College, including the Brother Arthur A. Loftus Award for Business and Finance, the Trustee Award, an Honorary Doctor of Law and the Edmund Rice Medal from the Christian Brothers. He was inducted into the All Hallows Hall of Fame in 1991. He received the Conference Board Youth Education Best in Class Award, the Crain's New York All Star Award, the Madison Square Boys and Girls Club Award and the B'nai Brith Youth Service Champion of Youth Award. Pete was a Knight of Malta and a Knight of the Holy Sepluchre. He was a life member of the New York Athletic Club. He served on the Diocese of Palm Beach Finance Committee and was a lector at St. Jude Church in Tequesta, FL. He was the loving husband of 56 years to Mary Jane (Condon), and the devoted father of Peter (Jane), Barbara Scanlon Jessup (William); Brian, and Janet (Bruno Perreault). His son Mark died in 1992. Pete was the beloved grandfather of Conor, Emily, and Nora Scanlon; Christopher Jessup; Audrey and Avery Scanlon; and Nathalie and Gabrielle Perreault. Visitation will be held on Thursday, December 10th from 2-4, 7-9, Aycock Funeral Home, 1112 Military Trail, Jupiter, (561)746-5124. A Mass of Christian Burial will be offered on Friday, December 11, 2009 at St. Jude Catholic Church, 11am, US Highway 1, Tequesta, FL. In lieu of flowers, the family requests your prayers and, if you like, a donation to your favorite charity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CALENDARS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (87%); CANCER (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); KOREAN WAR (73%); RELIGION (71%); NAVIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SPONSORSHIP (65%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



251 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Uptick in Global Ad Spending Is Forecast for 2010

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
IT was not exactly a rousing chorus of ''Happy Days Are Here Again,'' but the predictions for next year by three forecasters of advertising spending had Madison Avenue smiling, however faintly, on Tuesday.
 The predictions all called for an increase in worldwide ad spending in 2010 compared with 2009, which by most measures will end up as the worst year in decades. Still, there were caveats, among them an expectation for a less robust recovery in the United States than in other markets and continued weakness in demand for ads in print media like magazines and newspapers.
 And ad spending is unlikely to snap back quickly, the forecasters warned, but rather will take several years to return to the levels of 2007 or 2008. 
 The predictions were made during a panel event at the second day of the 37th Global Media and Communications Conference, sponsored by UBS. The conference, in Midtown Manhattan, typically assembles executives from media agencies to offer forecasts for ad spending in the year -- and years -- ahead.
 In ascending order, the forecasts for 2010 compared with 2009 call for an increase of 0.8 percent, from the GroupM unit of WPP; 0.9 percent, from the ZenithOptimedia division of the Publicis Groupe; and 5.9 percent, from the Magna unit of Mediabrands, a division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. (A forecast from UBS, offered during the panel discussion, was for an increase of 3.9 percent.)
 ''The steep deterioration seems to have abated,'' said Steven King, chief executive at ZenithOptimedia, who described 2009 as ''an unprecedented year'' for the extent of the downturn in ad spending.
 The final predictions from the panelists for 2009 compared with 2008, in descending order, are: down 6.6 percent, from GroupM; down 10.2 percent, from ZenithOptimedia; and down 15 percent, from Magna. (The UBS prediction was for a decrease of 9.6 percent.)
 Both GroupM and ZenithOptimedia raised their forecasts for 2010 from predictions made months ago. ''It's our first upgrade since June 2008,'' Mr. King said. 
 Similarly, the futures director at GroupM, Adam Smith -- yes, that is his name, followers of economics -- said the upward adjustment he made to his 2010 forecast was ''the first positive increase we've offered in about 18 months.''
 As for the years beyond, Mr. King said, ''we see the recovery steadily improving,'' for gains of 3.9 percent in 2011 compared with 2010 and 4.8 percent in 2012 compared with 2011.
 ''It's not really till 2012 that we see a recovery to normal growth rates,'' he added.
 And the recovery will be uneven, Mr. King said, as ad revenue for newspapers and magazines remains well below 2007 levels.
 There is ''a structural change'' involved, he added, as the new media grow in consumer popularity and acceptance, which ''will change the dynamic of the winners and losers forever.''
 Mr. Smith said GroupM was encountering difficulty in measuring the ad spending in new outlets like Facebook, which could eventually affect the accuracy of the forecasts.
 ''We may adjust for it next year,'' Mr. Smith said, to acknowledge the increasing role such media are playing.
 As for the geographic patterns of the upturn, Mr. Smith said he believed ''the recovery is going to be led by the emerging markets,'' while markets like the United States and Europe lag in their comebacks.
 That was echoed by Brian Wieser, global director for forecasting at Magna. ''There are a good number of double-digit growth markets next year,'' he said, among them China, Costa Rica, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Lebanon and Singapore.
 By contrast, the Magna forecast for the United States next year called for an increase of 0.2 percent compared with this year. (The GroupM forecast for the United States for 2010 was for a decline of 4.3 percent, and the ZenithOptimedia forecast was for a decline of 2.6 percent.)
 A reason that the outlook for 2010 was brightening was demonstrated on Tuesday when an organization called the C.M.O. Club, for chief marketing officers, released the results of a member survey. Fifty-eight percent of respondents said they expected their marketing budgets for next year to grow compared with 2009.
 Twenty-three percent of respondents said they expected their budgets to be the same in 2010 as this year, the club reported, and 19 percent said they expected their budgets to decrease.
 And if anyone needed additional reasons to understand why the final forecasts for 2009 were so bleak, they were provided on Tuesday by TNS Media Intelligence, part of WPP. Ad spending in the third quarter fell 15.3 percent compared with the same period a year ago, TNS reported, and for the first three quarters ad spending declined 14.7 percent compared with the same period in 2008.
 Of the 10 largest advertisers in the United States for the first nine months of 2009, TNS reported, eight spent less than they did during the same period a year ago. The exceptions were Pfizer, up 11 percent, and Sprint Nextel, up 51.1 percent. The declines ranged from 1.3 percent for Johnson & Johnson to 15.9 percent for the largest advertiser, Procter & Gamble. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''There are a good number of double-digit growth markets next year,'' including China and India, said Brian Wieser, global director for forecasting at Magna. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (93%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (55%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%); IPG (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



252 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: In India, a Developing Case of Innovation Envy

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: BANGALORE, India 

 BODY:
In the United States and Europe, people worry that their well-paying, high-skill jobs will be, in a word, ''Bangalored'' -- shipped off to India. 
 People here are also worried about the future. They fret that Bangalore, and India more broadly, will remain a low-cost satellite office of the West for the foreseeable future -- more Scranton, Pa., in the American television series ''The Office,'' than Silicon Valley.
 Even as the rest of the world has come to admire, envy and fear India's outsourcing business and its technological prowess, many Indians are disappointed that the country has not quickly moved up to more ambitious and lucrative work from answering phones or writing software. Why, they worry, hasn't India produced a Google or an Apple? 
 Innovation is hard to measure, but academics who study it say India has the potential to create trend-setting products but is not yet doing so. Indians are granted about half as many American patents for inventions as people and firms in Israel and China. The country's corporate and government spending on research and development significantly lags behind that of other nations. And venture capitalists finance far fewer companies here than they do elsewhere. 
 ''The same idea, if it's born in Silicon Valley it goes the distance,'' said Nadathur S. Raghavan, a investor in start-ups and a founder of Infosys, one of India's most successful technology companies. ''If it's born in India it does not go the distance.''
 Mr. Raghavan and others say India is held back by a financial system that is reluctant to invest in unproven ideas, an education system that emphasizes rote learning over problem solving, and a culture that looks down on failure and unconventional career choices.
 Sujai Karampuri is an Indian entrepreneur who has struggled against many of these constraints. 
 His Bangalore-based company, Sloka Telecom, has developed award-winning radio systems that are more flexible, smaller and less expensive than equipment used by phone companies today. Mobile phone companies and larger telecommunications equipment suppliers are buying and testing his products, but he has not been able to interest Indian venture capitalists. For the last five years he has run his firm on $1 million he raised from acquaintances.
 ''I can only afford to trial with one customer at a time and that takes three months to materialize,'' said Mr. Karampuri, who has considered moving the company to the United States to be closer to venture capitalists who specialize in telecommunications. ''You are always worried about paying next month's salary to people. Should you keep the money for this trial or next month's salary?''
 Companies like Sloka Telecom are important, analysts say, because they are more likely to create the next wave of jobs than large, established Indian technology companies, many of which are experiencing slower growth. These companies could also help offset some of the outsourcing jobs the country will likely lose because of greater automation and competition from countries where costs are even lower. 
 There are historical reasons that starting a business in India is difficult. During British rule, imperial interests dictated economic activity; after independence in 1947, central planning stifled entrepreneurship through burdensome licensing and direct state ownership of companies and banks.
 Businesses found that currying favor with policy makers was more important than innovating. And import restrictions made it hard to acquire machinery, parts or technology. Inventors came up with ingenious ways to overcome obstacles and scarcity -- a talent Indians used the Hindi word ''jugaad'' (pronounced jewgard) to describe. But the products that resulted from such improvisation were often inferior to those available outside India.
 ''We were in an economy where, forget innovation, expansion was discouraged, creating wealth was frowned upon, there was no competition to speak of,'' said Anand G. Mahindra, who heads the Mahindra & Mahindra business group and has spoken about the need for more innovation.
 Indian leaders began embracing the free market in the 1980s and stepped up the pace of change in 1991 when the country faced a financial crisis. Those changes increased economic growth and made possible the rise of technology companies like Infosys and Wipro, which focused on providing services for American and European corporations.
 Yet, the government still exerts significant control, especially in manufacturing, said Rishikesha T. Krishnan, a professor at the Indian Institute of Management in Bangalore.
 ''To start a services company it really takes you just two or three days to get going,'' said Mr. Krishnan, whose book, ''From Jugaad to Systematic Innovation: The Challenge for India,'' is to be published next year. ''The moment you are looking at manufacturing, there are hundreds of inspectors and regulations.''
 Raising money is one of the biggest challenges entrepreneurs face. Venture capital funds have flocked to India in recent years, but they are more likely to invest in established businesses than young firms.
 In the United States, Israel and elsewhere, the initial, or seed, capital for many start-ups comes from rich individuals known as angel investors. But most rich Indians prefer to invest with family members or close friends because its considered safer and provides assurance that the lender will be able to borrow from relatives in the future.
 ''If you want to raise $3 to $4 million, it's doable,'' said Sumir Chadha, who co-heads Sequoia Capital's Indian operations. ''But it's difficult if you want to raise $300,000 or $400,000,'' a typical investment at the early stages of a company's life.
 When Cellworks Group, which has most of its operations in Bangalore, was looking to raise money last year, executives talked to venture capitalists here and abroad. But the company raised all of the money it needed in the United States, because most local investors did not have the expertise to evaluate the biotech firm, said Taher Abbasi, the chief executive. 
 Cellworks has planted its corporate headquarters and a small staff near San Jose so it can be close to investors and American universities for research collaboration on cancer drugs.
 ''To really kick off entrepreneurship without local money is very difficult,'' Mr. Abbasi said.
 Still, he said, India has its advantages. Engineers and biologists are plentiful, though they need to be trained more than their counterparts elsewhere. And operating costs are a lot lower than in the San Francisco Bay Area, which was critical more than two years ago when he and his partners started the company with their own money.
 There may yet be hope for Indian innovation. 
 Some are looking to fill the venture fund vacuum. A group called Mumbai Angels holds Saturday meetings every two months at which entrepreneurs pitch ideas to affluent investors. Members of the group have invested in about 20 companies, said Prashant Choksey, a co-founder.
 Separately, N. R. Narayana Murthy, the chairman of Infosys, recently sold $38 million worth of shares in his company to start a new venture capital fund. Mr. Raghavan, the former Infosys executive, has invested about $100 million in start-ups like Connexios Life Sciences, which is developing drugs to treat diabetes and other diseases. Many Indian universities have also started entrepreneurship programs and classes.
 Vivek Wadhwa, a former technology entrepreneur who now researches innovation, said the climate for start-ups in India was a lot better than it was a few years ago. It should continue to improve, he said, in part because companies like General Electric have hired tens of thousands of engineers in India to work in research and development.
 ''Once they have been working on these projects for a few years they will outgrow the companies that they are working for,'' he said. ''They will hook up with these entrepreneurs that failed'' on previous start-up attempts and create new companies.
 Another change may augur well. Until early this decade, the Indian market was too small and isolated to make it very lucrative for businesses to develop products here, so most technology companies focused on selling services to the West, said Girish S. Paranjpe, joint chief executive of Wipro's information technology business. ''That will change dramatically because the Indian market has become bigger,'' he said.
 In the last eight years, the size of the Indian economy has roughly doubled along with the importance of foreign trade. There could still be something to envy and fear.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Suri Venkatachalam, center, the chief of Connexios Life Sciences, a start-up developing drugs to treat diseases like diabetes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) CHARTS: RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES As a percentage of G.D.P. (Source: Unesco) (B1)
Untapped Potential: Academics say that India has the potential to create great products but it is not yet doing so. India is granted about half as many American patents for inventions as Israel and China. (Sources: U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
PricewaterhouseCoopers/National Venture Capital Association MoneyTree Report
 Venture Intelligence) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (85%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); TRENDS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (68%); PATENTS (68%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (56%)

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (57%); GOOGLE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (59%); PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (59%)

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (57%); INFY (NYSE) (57%); INFY (NSE) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (72%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (90%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



253 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Justices Appear Skeptical of Anticorruption Law

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A federal law that is a favorite tool of prosecutors in corruption cases met with almost universal hostility from the justices in Supreme Court arguments on Tuesday.
 The law, enacted in 1988, makes it a crime ''to deprive another of the intangible right of honest services.'' The law is often used to prosecute corporate executives and politicians said to have defrauded their employers or constituents.
 Justices across the court's ideological spectrum took turns on Tuesday attacking the law as hopelessly broad and vague. 
 Justice Steven G. Breyer estimated that there are 150 million workers in the United States and that perhaps 140 million of them could be prosecuted under the government's interpretation of the law.
 Complimenting the boss's hat ''so the boss will leave the room so that the worker can continue to read The Racing Form,'' Justice Breyer said, could amount to a federal crime.
 The justices heard arguments in two separate cases concerning the law on Tuesday. One involved Conrad M. Black, the newspaper executive convicted of defrauding his media company, Hollinger International. In his Supreme Court briefs, Mr. Black argued that the law should not apply to him because he had not contemplated that Hollinger would suffer ''some identifiable economic injury.''
 But at Tuesday's argument, Mr. Black's lawyer, Miguel A. Estrada, spent much of this time urging the court to strike down the law entirely as unconstitutionally vague. That idea seemed attractive to several justices, though Justice Breyer suggested that the court might want to ask for additional briefing on the point.
 The justices allowed Mr. Estrada to speak for long stretches, which is unusual, and the tone of the argument was more brainstorming session than oral advocacy, with several justices and Mr. Estrada trying to identify the smartest way to fix the law.
 In the first of the two hour-long arguments, Mr. Estrada was asked only about 25 questions; his adversary, Deputy Solicitor General Michael R. Dreeben, was asked more than 60. 
 The second appeal was from a former Alaska legislator, Bruce Weyhrauch, who did not disclose that he had been soliciting work from a company with business before the Legislature. Mr. Weyhrauch argued that the federal honest services law should not apply in public corruption cases where no violation of a state disclosure law was alleged. 
 Some justices seemed uncertain about the wisdom of that particular limiting principle. But that discomfort did not seem to make them any more sympathetic to the law as a whole.
 The court will hear a third honest-services case in the spring, that one involving Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former chief executive officer of Enron Corporation. 
 Mr. Dreeben defended the honest-services law in both arguments on Tuesday, and he was given a rough time by the justices. 
 The law effectively overruled a 1987 Supreme Court decision, McNally v. United States, which limited the federal mail fraud statute to deprivations of tangible property. Justice John Paul Stevens dissented in McNally and was the only justice at Tuesday's argument who appeared sympathetic to the government.
 Mr. Dreeben's argument leaned heavily on judicial decisions before 1987, which he said established ''the core understanding of the duty of loyalty'' that the 1988 law had restored. That core, he said, includes forbidding kickbacks, bribes and ''undisclosed conflicts of interest by an agent or fiduciary who takes action to further that interest.''
 Mr. Dreeben's formulation did not seem to satisfy most of the justices, on several grounds.
 Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said that ''the lower courts were massively confused'' before 1987 and so could not have agreed on core concepts.
 Justice Breyer said the law ''covered 6,000 things,'' of which the government has now ''picked, perhaps randomly, three.''
 Justice Antonin Scalia added that, in any event, the government's preferred interpretation cannot be rooted in the actual text of the statute.
 ''You speak as though it is up to us to write the statute,'' Justice Scalia told Mr. Dreeben. ''That's not our job.''
 In quick succession, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Scalia and Breyer recited what they called a fundamental principle: that the public must be able to understand what a criminal law means. 
 ''If it can't,'' Chief Justice Roberts said, ''then the law is invalid.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Miguel A. Estrada, center, urged the Supreme Court to strike down a law entirely. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Conrad M. Black, an executive convicted of defrauding his media company, with his wife, Barbara Amiel, in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JERRY LAI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); APPEALS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (60%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (60%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



254 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Civil Liberties Group Loses $20 Million Donor

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
A longtime anonymous donor to the American Civil Liberties Union has withdrawn his annual gift of more than $20 million, punching a 25 percent hole in its annual operating budget and forcing cutbacks in operations.
 Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the A.C.L.U., acknowledged in a written statement that a ''family'' had told the organization in September that it could not make its annual gifts, at least for next year. 
 ''This family, that has sought to protect its privacy by arranging its gifts anonymously, notified us last month that due to market conditions it will be unable to make its expected sizable donations of over $20 million,'' Mr. Romero said. 
 A.C.L.U. board members, who insisted on anonymity because the loss of the gift was reported in an executive session of their meeting, identified the donor as David Gelbaum, who made a fortune as a hedge fund manager and is now better known as a major investor in clean technology.
 Mr. Romero said that donors like the Leon Levy Foundation, the Open Society Institute, Peter B. Lewis and John Sperling had stepped up with pledges totaling $23 million spread over the next three years. But unlike the annual Gelbaum gifts, the new money will have to be shared with state affiliates.
 ''Even with this incredible outpouring of support, we may still not have sufficient resources to replace our revenue gap,'' Mr. Romero said. ''Therefore we will need to consider a number of budget reductions as well as the possibility of drawing down from our reserve funds if necessary.''
 Late last year, suffering from a decline in charitable giving caused by the economic downturn as well as the loss of income from two foundations hit by the Bernard L. Madoff scandal, the A.C.L.U. pared 10 percent of its national staff, or 36 jobs, and Mr. Romero agreed to a 15 percent cut in his salary, reducing it to $302,048 this year, compared with $355,000 in the prior year.
 The organization also instituted a hiring freeze, curtailed travel and canceled conferences.
 Mr. Romero said in his statement that he did not yet know what the additional cuts would be.
 Mr. Gelbaum began contributing $50,000 or so annually to the A.C.L.U. in the early 1980s and kept increasing his gifts, to $22.5 million in 2008, board members said. 
 The only condition he placed on the gifts was that he remain anonymous, so only a handful of people at the A.C.L.U. knew he was the donor. He did not respond to e-mail messages or a letter sent to him in care of his investment vehicle, the Quercus Trust. 
 Calls to the phone numbers listed on filings the trust has made with the Securities and Exchange Commission resulted in busy signals. 
 Mr. Romero told the organization's national board about the loss of Mr. Gelbaum's money at its last board meeting in October, breaking the news in executive session. Mr. Romero did not reveal Mr. Gelbaum's name, describing him only as ''a donor,'' board members said
 Still, it is hard to keep secrets with a board of more than 80 members, most of whom report to state affiliates. ''As soon as he started telling us, anyone who had a laptop with them was busy Googling'' and figured out who the donor was, a national board member said.
 Mr. Romero told the board that the donor had also stopped giving to three ''sister organizations,'' a phrase board members said he had used in the past to describe other groups with which the A.C.L.U. has collaborated, like the Sierra Club.
 Mr. Gelbaum took a rare turn in the spotlight earlier this decade when environmental activists said he was behind the Sierra Club's decision to adopt a neutral stance on immigration. Some people believe immigration has aggravated environmental problems. 
 He had given the organization a total of $101.5 million, according to The Los Angeles Times, which wrote what is perhaps the only major profile of him, in 2004. In the article, he is quoted as saying that he told Carl Pope, the Sierra Club's executive director, in 1994 or 1995 ''that if they ever came out anti-immigration, they would never get a dollar from me.''
 Last year, The News-Gazette in Southern Illinois wrote an article about an investment Mr. Gelbaum made in a tiny company with a product that potentially improved the efficiency of solar cells. The agreement apparently fell through, however, because five months later, he sued the company for failing to repay his $9.1 million investment. The suit was settled last fall. 
 Munir H. Nayfeh, the founder of the company and a physics professor at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, said that there was no sign that Mr. Gelbaum had financial troubles in mid-2008 and that their deal fell apart because it raised potential conflicts of interest under Illinois law between the company and the state university. 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 11, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about a donor who is withdrawing his annual gift of more than $20 million to the American Civil Liberties Union misstated the location of The News-Gazette, a newspaper that has reported about the donor, David Gelbaum. It is in Champaign-Urbana, which is in central Illinois -- not southern Illinois.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); CHARITIES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (75%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); SCANDALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (84%); OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



255 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Despite Author's Championing, A California Library Closes

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Even the author Ray Bradbury put up a fight, but it was not enough to save the H. P. Wright Library in Ventura, Calif. 
 The library, like so many around the country, had fallen on hard times as city and state budgets tightened. Mr. Bradbury, a fierce advocate for public libraries, appeared at a fund-raiser last June aimed at helping to save the ailing branch. While that helped the library hang on for a bit, the long-term picture was bleak, and a recent bond measure that would have helped close a $650,000 deficit sunk. 
 The library's final day on Nov. 30 was met with a candlelight vigil. ''Needless to say, they put up a good fight,'' said Sydney Weisman, a spokeswoman for the San Buenaventura Friends of the Library, which tried to keep the library afloat.
 Libraries, like many publicly financed institutions, have been hit hard by the recession. Systems across the country have shortened hours, closed branches and in some cases threatened to close down entirely until they were saved by legislators or private donations. Several law libraries across Connecticut will close early next year.
 Explaining his support of libraries generally and his efforts in Ventura specifically, Mr. Bradbury said in an interview last summer: ''Libraries raised me. I don't believe in colleges and universities. I believe in libraries, because most students don't have any money. When I graduated from high school, it was during the Depression and we had no money. I couldn't go to college, so I went to the library three days a week for 10 years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sandy Caron visited the H. P. Wright Library in Ventura, Calif., before its closing. Ray Bradbury had tried to help save it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN PINES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); LAW LIBRARIES (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



256 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Weakness of Recovery Unsettles Investors

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ and MATTHEW SALTMARSH

 BODY:
Investors from Asia to Europe to Wall Street sent shares lower on Tuesday, distressed by signs of weakness in the global recovery amid talk of credit worries in Dubai and Greece.
 As stocks fell, traders turned to the dollar for safety, helping it gain strength against other currencies. That sent the price of commodities like gold and oil down.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 104.14 points, or 1 percent, to 10,285.97, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 11.31 points, or 1 percent, to 1,091.94. The Nasdaq fell 16.62 points, to 2,172.99. 
 With little on the economic calendar and the end of the year in sight, shareholders tried to gauge the health of the underlying economy and adjust their portfolios. 
 They were taken by surprise, however, when the credit ratings of six Dubai companies were downgraded on Tuesday and concerns emerged about Greece's ability to pay off its debt. Investors worry that problems in those countries could spread and curb the growth of emerging markets worldwide. Thomas J. Lee, chief United States equity strategist for J.P. Morgan Securities, called the concerns a ''short-term disruption'' and said they were confined to those countries.
 ''The markets should be rattled. If they didn't react, then you would realize we're not in a rational world,'' Mr. Lee said. ''But this isn't going to derail the global recovery.''
 He said stocks still had the potential for strong growth in December, but he added that some investors ''want to hibernate'' and have begun to remove risky assets from their portfolios.
 In London, the FTSE 100 shed 1.65 percent, and in Frankfurt, the DAX was off 1.66 percent. In Asia, the Nikkei 225 in Japan closed down 0.3 percent and the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong lost 1.2 percent.
 The declines in United States stocks came after disappointing financial reports from large companies. On Tuesday, 3M, the diversified manufacturer, offered a disappointing forecast of its earnings, and the McDonald's Corporation, the fast-food restaurant chain, reported that sales at restaurants in the United States fell in November for a second month.
 On Friday, the government will provide another snapshot of holiday sales when it releases its November retail sales report.
 The dollar strengthened to $1.47 against the euro.
 Rebecca Patterson, global head of foreign exchange and commodities at J.P. Morgan Private Bank, said she expected the dollar to remain weak in 2010 as the Federal Reserve maintained its near-zero interest rates, even as it strengthens during times of uncertainty.
 ''The situation in Greece reminds us there are still risks out there,'' Ms. Patterson said. ''When in doubt, investors want to own something liquid and something perceived to be safe.''
 Fitch Ratings on Tuesday lowered the debt rating in Greece, the latest blow to the troubled euro-zone country, driving bond prices and banking shares lower as investors fretted about the possibility of a default.
 Moody's, another credit rating firm, further cut its ratings on six Dubai state-linked companies because it said it cannot assume the government will stand behind their debts. The downgrades came as Dubai seeks to distance itself from at least $80 billion of debt racked up by companies it created to expand the emirate's global clout.
 Until recently, lenders had assumed Dubai's many state-linked companies had implicit government backing. Dubai officials have since made clear no such promise exists.
 ''It's a macro story that's making investors cautious,'' said Stefan de Schutter, asset manager at Alpha Trading in Frankfurt. ''They are worried that banks that hold debt from Dubai or Greece will be hit hard.''
 European investors were also distraught over data showing industrial production in Germany dropped 1.8 percent in October from a month earlier.
 In Britain, the giant retailer Tesco retreated 2.7 percent. It said third-quarter sales at stores open at least a year in Britain gained 2.8 percent, excluding fuel and value-added tax. That compared with the advance of 3.1 percent in the second quarter.
 Interest rates in the United States were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note was up 13/32, to 99 30/32. The yield was 3.38 percent, down from 3.43 percent late Monday.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-day cash management bills, four-week bills and three-year notes:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); CURRENCIES (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); EURO (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%); RETAIL SALES (65%); RESTAURANTS (65%); FAST FOOD (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (81%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (68%); 3M CO (63%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (81%); JPM (NYSE) (68%); JPM (LSE) (68%); 8634 (TSE) (68%); MMM (SWX) (63%); MMM (NYSE) (63%); MMM (FRA) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (81%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (81%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (63%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (63%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE (90%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



257 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Japan Leader Promotes $81 Billion Stimulus Plan

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Yukio Hatoyama warned on Tuesday that Japan could fall back into recession without bold measures like the stimulus package introduced by the country's governing coalition. But he is struggling to balance economic concerns with a campaign promise to rein in government spending.
 ''We've reached the utmost limit in terms of financing,'' Mr. Hatoyama, who took office in September after a landmark victory for his Democratic Party over the long-governing Liberal Democratic Party, said on Tuesday. 
 A recent surge in the yen to a 14-year high against the dollar, together with persistent deflation, has disrupted the Japanese economy, leading to the new stimulus package of 7.2 trillion yen.
 The $81 billion package -- which is equivalent to about 1.5 percent of Japan's gross domestic product -- includes $39 billion to prop up regional economies and pay for public works projects.
 Environmental programs, like incentives to buy energy-efficient cars and appliances, will receive $9 billion, and measures to increase employment will get $6.8 billion. The government will also offer loan guarantees for small companies to ease a credit squeeze, the cabinet said in a statement.
 The stimulus package comes a week after Japan's central bank took fresh steps to bolster lending. Japan is introducing additional efforts to lift its economy, even as other countries consider ways to wind down stimulus measures during a nascent global recovery.
 Japan has posted two consecutive quarters of economic growth after taking a battering in the global financial crisis. The downturn slowed sales of Japanese-made machinery, electronics and cars.
 Although demand has picked up in China and elsewhere in Asia, consumers in the traditional markets -- the United States and Europe -- have been slow to resume purchasing. That has hurt exporting giants like Toyota and Panasonic, and the strong yen has compounded their problems by making their products more expensive overseas.
 Mr. Hatoyama's Democratic Party faces another round of elections next year, and he has been eager to bring about a solid economic recovery before voters go to the polls. His popularity has been slipping, with a recent Yomiuri newspaper poll showing his approval rating at 59 percent, a new low.
 A small, populist coalition of legislators wrangled with the Democrats for a bigger stimulus package, delaying the agreement and extracting 100 billion yen, or $1.1 billion, in additional spending.
 The Democratic Party relies on smaller coalition partners for a majority in the upper house, which is subject to elections next year.
 In announcing the stimulus plan Tuesday, the cabinet said Japan faced risks of a deterioration in employment conditions, sluggish demand, a sharp slide in prices, a damaging rise in long- term interest rates and wild swings in currency exchange rates.
 Last week, the Bank of Japan, under pressure from the government to take aggressive action, announced a short-term, $112 billion lending facility to increase liquidity in the financial system.
 Some of the $81 billion in the package announced Tuesday will come from funds the Democrats shaved off the previous administration's budget. The prior government had compiled a 15.4 trillion yen package intended to revive growth.
 ''In our view, the impact of the package to overall growth is limited,'' Masamichi Adachi, a senior economist at JPMorgan Securities Japan, said of Tuesday's plan. ''Funding for the package comes from the previous budget.'' 
 Other analysts say they worry whether the Democrats can afford to finance the stimulus, as well as an ambitious social welfare program promised during campaigning. Japan's public debt is approaching twice the size of its gross domestic product.
 ''We have no idea how this spending will be financed,'' Carl B. Weinberg, an economist at High Frequency Economics, said in a research note Tuesday.
 Japan's tax revenue will tumble to 36.9 trillion yen, or $416 billion, this fiscal year, about 9.2 trillion yen below initial projections and the lowest level since 1985, the finance minister, Hirohisa Fujii, said Thursday.
 The tax shortfall will probably push new government bond issuance to 53.5 trillion yen this year, he said, the first time the deficit would exceed tax revenue since immediately after World War II. ''Our country's finances are in an extremely serious state,'' Mr. Fujii said Tuesday.
 The International Monetary Fund predicts that Japan's economy -- the largest in the world behind that of the United States -- will shrink 5.4 percent this year, more than the 2.7 percent decline forecast for the United States and the 4.2 percent decline seen for the euro zone.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yukio Hatoyama's popularity slipped in a recent survey. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARUYOSHI YAMAGUCHI /BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); JAPANESE YEN (75%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTEREST RATES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (50%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: YUKIO HATOYAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



258 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Pet Shops Find Room to Grow

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
New Yorkers may be buying fewer luxuries for themselves in this recession, but they seem reluctant to skimp on their pets. As a result, real estate professionals report, there is a small explosion of pet retailers in New York City.
 This apparent surge is not only a reflection of the pampering of pets. In a slow leasing market, previously reluctant landlords now seem more willing to negotiate with pet businesses, and some pet retailers, particularly those that have animals on the premises, are seizing the opportunity to expand.
 For instance, Spot, formerly known as the Paw Stop, signed a 10-year lease this month for 5,000 square feet of retail space at 145 West 20th Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues in Chelsea. The business, which provides boarding, grooming and day care for dogs, has a store in TriBeCa, and its owners say they are continuing to seek retail space on the Upper West Side.
 ''We're doing well with our business in TriBeCa,'' said Anisha Khanna, a co-owner of Spot. ''People don't stop spending on their pets and their kids in a recession. I guess with the emotional connection, they're spending more than ever.'' 
 With retail and office rents having declined by about 25 percent in the last 12 months, other pet retailers are either locking in space or looking. In October, Fetch NYC, a dog day care business, signed a lease for 6,000 square feet at 85 South Street in Lower Manhattan, and another dog day care company called Paws and Relax took 1,300 square feet at 220 Avenue B and East 13th Street. Both deals were done by the commercial brokerage JDF Realty.
 Dogmatic Products, a manufacturer of dog products that are sold on the Internet, signed a lease in November for 2,850 square feet of office space at 494 Broadway and Broome Street.
 ''The pet industry is a real niche business that has established itself in New York,'' said Victor M. Menkin, the founder and president of Menkin Realty Services, who has worked in retail real estate more than three decades in New York City and has noticed an increase in demand for pet-related space.
 ''The fact that this niche is continuing to show strength in times of strife is a real statement about the importance of pets to people,'' he said. ''There are a lot of single people in New York, and an animal becomes, to a certain extent, an interim connection emotionally for people if they don't have a child, spouse or mate.''
 One large dog day care and boarding business, Biscuits and Bath, has six Manhattan locations and aims to open four or five more in Manhattan, perhaps two in Brooklyn, and maybe one in Queens or Hoboken, said John Ziegler, the company's co-founder and president.
 Mr. Ziegler said certain business divisions had been struggling. Overnight boarding, for example, had declined, since people were not traveling as much for business or vacations. Also, owners of dogs that must be groomed regularly were asking for shorter cuts, so they could go longer without having to visit again, he said.
 Mr. Ziegler estimated that he had recently been losing 100 to 150 customers a month, but gaining about 350. While overnight dog care is down, Mr. Ziegler said, the additional customers were people with pets who were new to the city, people who had newly adopted pets or people who needed more day care as they worked longer hours.
 A poll conducted in October by The Associated Press and Petside.com, an Internet pet store and veterinary Web site, found that even though 93 percent of Americans said they would spend less than last year on holiday gifts, or about the same as a year ago, 52 percent of pet owners planned to buy their animals a holiday gift -- up from 43 percent last year. 
 ''Pet sales in general are strong relative to other retailers,'' said Andrew Mandell, a partner at the commercial brokerage agency Ripco Real Estate New York City, who is seeking multiple new locations for Petco, a chain of one-stop shops for pets. 
 When demand is strong in leasing markets, landlords often refuse to negotiate with pet retailers that have animals on the premises, for obvious reasons. ''No one looks favorably at pets,'' said Dan Rubenstein, the founder and co-owner of Spot. ''They think smells; they think noise; they think of all the horrible things they can think of.''
 But in a soft leasing market, landlords tend to be more open-minded, said Rick Johnson, a director at the commercial brokerage agency First New York Realty, who found Dogmatic Products its space. ''In this marketplace, landlords are a lot more lenient,'' he said. 
 One reason that landlords may be more willing to consider businesses is that there have been technological advances in heating, ventilating and air-conditioning systems, along with better soundproofing materials. The new systems often circulate 100 percent fresh air, while typical office systems might recycle as much as 85 or 95 percent of the air, recirculating odors.
 J. Timothy Surlis, a senior managing director who represents Biscuits and Bath at the Lansco Corporation, a commercial brokerage firm, said the pet business had made major investments in its infrastructure to allay problems. 
 ''This was a sticking point years ago, especially with residential landlords,'' he said. 
 Pet businesses typically choose to locate in or near residential neighborhoods to be close to clients. Several Biscuits and Bath stores are in rental apartment buildings, including the Trump Place tower, 160 Riverside Boulevard at West 67th Street, he said.
 ''With different types of air filtration systems combined with different kinds of soundproofing, that helps the landlord feel comfortable,'' Mr. Surlis said.
 Spot has actually gone so far as to hire Creative Design Associates, or C.D.A., a boutique architecture and interior design firm, to design its new Chelsea space, which will have an 1,800-square-foot indoor dog park.
 ''We knew we had to get an architect or designer who really understood what we were about,'' Ms. Khanna said. Vince Cangelosi, the founder and principal of C.D.A,. has two beagles and is a member of Spot's TriBeCa location, much as one might be a member of a gym or spa. ''He visits our location every day, or three or four times a week, and uses our programs.''
 She said the Chelsea location, which has a complex drain system and washable concrete called Flowcrete for its kennel, should be open by January.
 While pet retailers seem to be showing up in more places than before, they are not likely to be cropping up everywhere. New York City zoning limits such businesses to certain neighborhoods, and some business managers have discovered that they have the wrong kind of certificate of occupancy.
 Owners also complain that enforcement sometimes seems to be uneven. Naresh Jessani, a co-owner of New York Dog Spa and Hotel, which has two Manhattan locations, said some pet retailers might actually be operating in violation of city regulations. 
 At the company's site at 32 West 25th Street, ''we're kind of banished to a side block,'' he said. ''We'd much rather be on a main block, but the use is not permitted. Yet the city lets other dog businesses do it, and I don't understand why.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sabrina Lowry playing with dogs at a Biscuits and Bath location at 160 Riverside Boulevard on the Upper West Side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAYMOND MCCREA JONES/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Anisha Khanna and Dan Rubenstein, the co-owners of Spot. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PET STORES & SUPPLIES (93%); PETS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PET CARE SERVICES (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); ANIMALS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); DOGS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



259 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Agencies Ordered To Publish Data

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House instructed every federal agency on Tuesday to choose at least three collections of previously undisclosed ''high value'' government data and publish them on the Internet by the end of January, an ambitious order to make the administration as transparent as President Obama had promised it would be. 
 It was not immediately clear what types of information would be added to the data.gov Web site. The order said the material must increase accountability, improve the public's understanding about the agency's mission, create economic opportunities or be in high demand by the public.
 Bill Allison, editorial director at the Sunlight Foundation, a nonprofit Washington organization whose mission is to make government transparent and accountable, said that whatever was disclosed would need to already exist on government computers in data form because of the deadline the administration set for itself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



260 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Finding The Nerve To Cut Costs

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Over the next several weeks, members of Congress will be confronted with one scary story after another about what will happen if they try to cut health care costs.
 Tax the costliest health insurance plans? Workers will be denied medical care. Reduce the growth of spending on home health care agencies? Elderly patients living alone will be left to fend for themselves. Set up a commission to reduce Medicare waste? Again, the elderly will suffer. Impose a tax on plastic surgery? That's unfair to unemployed women looking to enhance their appearance. (Seriously, the plastic surgeons are making that case.)
 But here's the thing: It is abundantly clear that our medical system wastes enormous amounts of money on health care that doesn't make people healthier. Hospitals that practice more intensive medicine, to take one example, getno better results than more conservative hospitals, research shows. And while the insured receive better care and are healthier than the uninsured, the lavishly insured -- those households with so-called Cadillac plans -- are not better off than households with merely good insurance.
 Yet every time Congress comes up with an idea for cutting spending, the cry goes out: Patients will suffer! You're cutting bone, not fat! 
 How can this be? How can there be billions of dollars of general waste and no specific waste? There can't, of course. 
 The only way to cut health care costs is to cut health care costs and, in the process, invite politically potent scare stories.
 I'm as skeptical as anyone of the ability of the United States Congress to formulate good policy, but the last few days have offered reason to hope that its members may be summoning the political courage to endure the scare stories. 
 That would be a big deal. Health costs, through Medicare, are the main source of the huge long-term budget deficit. In recent years, they have also caused insurance premiums to rise so quickly that employers haven't had the money to give workers a decent raise. David Cutler, a Harvard health economist, estimates that the measures already in the health bills will increase the typical family's income $2,500 a year by the end of the decade.
 Real health reform also has the potential to save lives. Because we now pay doctors to provide more care rather than better care, we have not given them an incentive to reduce hospital-acquired infections and other avoidable errors. A new amendment from three senators -- Susan Collins, a Maine Republican; Joe Lieberman, the Connecticut independent; and Arlen Specter, the Pennsylvania Republican turned Democrat -- would increase the financial penalty for giving patients such infections.
 Even this idea, however, has its own scare story. The Washington Post reported on Sunday that hospital groups were ''quietly steaming'' over it and suggested their support for health reform could be in danger.
 One piece of encouraging news came on Saturday, when the Senate finally began listening to its own health care advisers.
 To help it oversee Medicare, Congress set up an outside board of doctors, economists and other experts in 1997, called the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission. Medpac, as it's known, tries to figure out which services Medicare may be paying too little for, thus creating shortages, and which ones it may be overpaying for.
 Perhaps the single clearest example of overpayment is home health care. Home health agencies, which care for Medicare patients with specific health needs (as opposed to those receiving general long-term care), have been proliferating in recent years. Yet, according to the most recent data, they still had fat profit margins on Medicare, 16.6 percent. One reason, the Government Accountability Office found, was that fraud was rife.
 So Medpac has recommended cutting home health payments, and the Senate bill would do so, by 13 percent over 10 years. On Saturday, the Senate rejected a Republican amendment, supported by a few Democrats, too, that would have blocked that cut. 
 The home health provision is actually typical of the cost-cutting measures that have made it into the Senate bill: it's pretty good. It won't be perfect, obviously. Some people somewhere may indeed have to stop working with a home health agency they like and find a new one. But that's not a reason to waste billions of dollars a year subsidizing an industry's profits.
 The real problem with the Senate bill is that it doesn't go far enough to cut costs and improve care. Here too, however, there are positive signs. For months, centrist Democrats have been saying that cost containment was one of their biggest priorities, but they had not done much to help the cause. That has now started to change. 
 ''Senators are now really focused on cost containment,'' says Mr. Cutler, who has been advising some of them.
 The day before the Senate defeated the home health care amendment, Senators Collins, Lieberman and Specter introduced an amendment with some measures to push medicine away from the insidious fee-for-service payment system. The cost-cutting momentum continued on Tuesday, when 11 of the 13 freshman Democratic senators announced their own package of measures. Neither proposal is earth-shattering, but both would make a difference. 
 Among other things, the freshmen's proposal would do more than the current Senate bill to push insurers to use a standardized payment process. Right now, doctors and hospitals often have to fill out different forms for different insurers. ''There's a lot of money there,'' Len Nichols, head of health policy at the New America Foundation, says.
 Intriguingly, officials from a rainbow of special interest groups showed up at the freshman senators' news conference to praise the proposal. To me, their presence highlighted both the biggest strength and the biggest weakness of the proposal. On the one hand, it has a real chance to make it into the final bill. On the other hand, it, like the Collins-Lieberman-Specter amendment, also fails to fix the single biggest flaw in the Senate bill.
 Last month, Senator Harry Reid, the Democratic leader, gutted an independent commission -- a more powerful version of Medpac, meant to shield Medicare payment decisions from political interference -- that many economists consider necessary. Mr. Reid's bill would allow the commission to take action only if Medicare spending was rising even faster than total health spending. If total spending rose 8 percent one year and Medicare spending rose 7.9 percent -- a miserable situation -- the commission would have to sit on its hands. AARP, unfortunately, has emerged as an opponent of a strong commission. 
 But without one, health reform will be hobbled. And the Senate may be the only hope for changing it.
 The House has shown little interest in cost control. President Obama and his administration have pushed aggressively for it, but they have limited leverage. Mr. Obama can't credibly threaten to veto any of the health reform bills that now seem likely to emerge from Congress.
 So after the 11 freshmen announced their plan on Tuesday, I caught up with Mark Warner, the Virginia Democrat who is the group's leader, underneath the Capitol building and asked him how he and his colleagues would deal with the inevitable scare stories still to come: How do you respond to a lobbyist who effectively accuses you of killing patients?
 ''I don't know any other way than you take incremental steps,'' Mr. Warner said, ''and you hope you get to the tipping point where fear and misinformation don't have an effect, because people see these things don't do what they are accused of doing.''
 That, obviously, is the long-term strategy. In coming weeks, we'll see how well Mr. Warner and his colleagues deal with the immediate pressure. The Grim Reaper is a tough opponent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FAMILY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (77%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (77%); MEDICARE (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); AGING (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); HOME HEALTH CARE (57%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



261 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: In Bruno's Upstate Corner, Name Stays Untarnished

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: TROY, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Devotees of the fine arts attend dance performances and literary readings here in the Senator Joseph L. Bruno Theater. Minor league baseball fans watch the Tri-City Valley Cats play at the 4,500-seat Joseph L. Bruno Stadium, known locally as the Joe.
 A few miles west in Colonie, a bronze bust of the former senator greets passengers at the Albany International Airport (brought to them by the Committee to Honor Joseph L. Bruno). And on the other side of the Hudson River in East Greenbush, a plaque on the lobby wall at the Y.M.C.A. bears his likeness. 
 Do not expect two federal felony convictions to change any of that.
 Here in the heart of what might be called Brunoland, the constituents who benefited from the billions of dollars the former Senate majority leader steered to local colleges, community centers, parks, infrastructure projects and social services still have a stubborn pride about their affiliation with the now-disgraced Mr. Bruno, who was convicted on Monday of concealing payments he took from a businessman who sought state funding. 
 The Joseph L. Bruno that many residents of this Victorian-era town on the Hudson knew was not the scofflaw who, federal prosecutors said, deliberately tried to hide millions of dollars in payments from people who wanted state business. He was a benefactor of the community, a generous provider of earmarks (known to critics as pork) and a patriarch affectionately referred to as Uncle Joe, who was known for appearing on a white horse named Apache in local parades.
 ''He did a real fine job. And really all politicians do that kind of stuff,'' said Will MacVeigh, 19, a student at Hudson Valley Community College, where Mr. Bruno helped secure financing for the baseball stadium named in his honor. 
 Regarding the federal corruption charges and monthlong criminal trial Mr. Bruno had, Mr. MacVeigh added, ''A lot of people thought it wasn't quite right that he was going through all that.''
 As he was walking past the Joe on his way to class on Tuesday afternoon, Mr. MacVeigh, who lives in Stephentown, N.Y., on the eastern end of Mr. Bruno's former district, said that Mr. Bruno's largess -- which helped pay for other major developments in the area, like the cathedral-like Rensselaer train station and a nanotechnology institute at the State University of New York at Albany -- provided an economic boon to a region long neglected by a Legislature that favored interests downstate.
 ''He seemed to like helping upstate,'' Mr. MacVeigh said. ''And generally that gets overlooked in Albany.'' 
 Though Mr. Bruno, a Republican who served in the Senate for more than 30 years, could wind up in prison for depriving the public of his honest services, as the jury found, the possibility did not seem to dim his standing among people interviewed here. Nor did he seem likely, at least for now, to meet the fate of other once-respected luminaries whose falls from grace led to their names or images disappearing from various public places. 
 Hudson Valley Community College probably will not be chiseling Mr. Bruno's name off its stadium. The chairman of the college's board, Robert H. Hill II, issued a statement on Tuesday saying that while he could not speak for the entire board, ''I as chairman personally would not be in favor of changing the name of the stadium.'' Mr. Hill said the college remained appreciative of Mr. Bruno's generosity.
 ''Hudson Valley Community College is extremely grateful for all that the former senator has done for this college and the capital region.''
 Removing the names of disgraced benefactors from buildings and institutions, while rare, is not unheard of. Seton Hall University took the name of L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former Tyco International chief executive convicted of stealing money from his corporation, off an academic building. Bernard B. Kerik, the former New York police commissioner, found his name stripped from a Manhattan jail after he pleaded guilty to improperly accepting home renovations and a loan.
 Hudson Valley Community College, incidentally, has two structures named for convicted felons. Its recreation complex is named in honor of Edward F. McDonough, once chairman of the Rensselaer County Democratic Party, who was also found guilty of corruption.
 At the Arts Center of the Capital Region, which houses the 100-seat Senator Joseph L. Bruno Theater, and at the airport, gratitude outweighed any other feelings about Mr. Bruno.
 What will become of the bust of Mr. Bruno at the Albany County Airport?
 ''It will remain here,'' said Doug Myers, director of public affairs. In a statement, Mr. Myers added, ''The Albany County Airport Authority is greatly appreciative of the contributions that Senator Bruno has made to rebuild the Albany International Airport.''
 Amy Williams, president of the arts center, said she had no reason to believe the former senator's name would be taken off the theater.
 ''He impacted a lot of lives in this region,'' Ms. Williams said. ''He understood what Troy had been and what Troy could be.''
 Word of Mr. Bruno's conviction was hard to escape here. The story was the lead item on the local newscasts. Newspaper stands in coffee shops were stacked with copies of the local papers announcing Mr. Bruno's guilt. 
 Robert Ryan, 82, a self-described ''rock-ribbed Democrat,'' stood at the counter at Leahy's, a diner in downtown Troy, reading The Troy Record during the lunchtime rush. 
 Mr. Ryan said the steady flow of state dollars Mr. Bruno had directed to the community made him cross party lines. ''He did a hell of a lot for this area,'' Mr. Ryan said. ''I hope Joe beats it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GRATEFUL FOR A STADIUM: Will MacVeigh, a student at Hudson Valley Community College, where a baseball stadium is named for Mr. Bruno, said, ''Really all politicians do that kind of stuff.''
 AND FOR A THEATER: Amy Williams, president of the Arts Center of the Capital Region, which houses the 100-seat Senator Joseph L. Bruno Theater, said its name would not be changed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS FANS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BASEBALL (90%); THEATER (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DANCE (78%); JURY TRIALS (74%); POLITICS (74%); VERDICTS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); AIRPORTS (71%); CORRUPTION (69%); FELONIES (69%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



262 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Clearing a Path for Bikes In City Office Buildings

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
On a rainy Thursday in November, three bicycles were parked in an office on the 29th floor of 7 World Trade Center in downtown Manhattan, a sleek new tower. Positioned near a window overlooking the Hudson River, the bikes had a better view than many of the desks nearby. 
 Bikes will soon become a more familiar sight around office cubicles in New York City. On Friday, a new bike access law takes effect in the city, stipulating that buildings with freight elevators must allow employees to use those elevators to take their bikes upstairs. Passed in July, the law aims to encourage bicycle commuting by eliminating worries about the security of street parking. 
 Under this law, however, access has to be granted only during freight elevator operating hours, which typically end around 6 p.m. In addition, cyclists may have to submit formal requests to get a landlord to issue a bike access plan, and the city may grant exceptions to some buildings -- for example, if the freight area is deemed unsafe.
 But some building owners and office managers have already embraced the idea, installing racks, carving out space for bike rooms and opening freight elevators to employees who pedal to work.
 ''From my vantage point, it's a huge positive,'' said Larry A. Silverstein, president and chief executive of Silverstein Properties. That vantage point is an office on the 38th floor of 7 World Trade Center with sweeping views overlooking ground zero.
 Although no bike was leaning against his desk that day, Mr. Silverstein said he supported the new law and thought most buildings with freight elevators could comply and that tenants could handle the parking once bikes rolled through their doors. 
 ''If you really want to do this, you find the space,'' he said. ''There's always space where you can put a bicycle.''
 Given the state of the economy, there may be some empty cubicles where employers can store bicycles. And given the state of the real estate market, landlords are likely to be more accommodating toward tenants' requests to provide access for bikes.
 ''It's an important consideration for many of our tenants, who are for the most part creative companies,'' said Carl Weisbrod, president of Trinity Real Estate, which owns properties near the Hudson River bike path. ''Their employee base consists of many people who ride bikes to work, and we want to encourage that.''
 Since Trinity's buildings are primarily former manufacturing plants with spacious loading docks and big freight elevators, they have an advantage over some newer properties, where space is tight and freight entrances are less accessible. 
 But the range of solutions that Trinity has developed illustrates how landlords may have to be creative to make way for bikes in their buildings.
 For instance, at 75 Varick Street, a former printing plant, Trinity has installed a wall-mounted rack in the loading area where employees can hang bikes and lock them. A couple of slots are designated for tandem bikes.
 At 345 Hudson Street, Trinity converted an unused ground-floor entrance on King Street into a bike room last year, with racks for about 100 bicycles. Employees swipe their key cards to gain access to the room, lock up their bikes, then walk to the main entrance, avoiding the freight area altogether.
 Trinity is exploring creating dedicated bike rooms at two other buildings, and has hired an architect to create bike maps for each of its properties, illustrating where bikes can be parked or freight elevators can be reached.
 Spreading the word about the new law may take time, said Wiley Norvell, a spokesman for Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group that pushed for the legislation. Toward that end, the group is creating a guide to the rules for cyclists, building owners and office managers, and the city has posted it online at nyc.gov/bikesinbuildings.
 ''Obviously, there's going to need to be some flexibility and patience on all sides,'' Mr. Norvell said. But he said he sensed that many landlords had dropped their initial resistance to the law.
 ''We're hearing more and more cases of building managers who have turned their ship around to comply with the bill,'' he said. 
 Still, that does not mean every office building in the city will be able to offer bike parking or access, regardless of the willingness of the landlord.
 Eric Gural, executive managing director at Newmark Knight Frank, said that although he thought the law ended up being fair, he saw the limited hours of union-operated freight elevators as a problem, as well as space constraints at some properties.
 ''To the extent that I can do it, I'll do it,'' Mr. Gural said. He pointed out that he would be even more motivated if the United States Green Building Council, a nonprofit industry group that encourages the creation of ''green'' structures, awarded points for bike racks in certifying buildings as environmentally friendly. Under current council rules, buildings have to provide showers to get credit for bike parking. ''If I could get a point for a bike rack without a shower, I'd put a bike rack everywhere,'' he said.
 One company that does offer employees showers, bicycle parking and even a bike-sharing program is the advertising agency Ogilvy & Mather North America. When it moved to a new office on 11th Avenue in Midtown Manhattan, bike parking was a priority, said Gunther Schumacher, Ogilvy's chief operating officer. The company's previous landlord had been unwilling to accommodate bikes, as were public garages that Ogilvy had approached about renting space.
 Now, the agency has racks for 150 bikes in its own garage, including 50 that Ogilvy bought for employees to ride to meetings or run errands.
 On an average day, about 75 people cycle to work, Mr. Schumacher said. ''We're in a very young industry, and we depend on people who have fresh new ideas on a daily basis,'' he said. ''The segment of our population that responds well to this is the segment we rely on for our future, so it's all about investing in the future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Travis Ruse, a photo director, and others who ride to work at Silverstein Properties in New York can park near their work stations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CYCLING (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (60%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



263 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: United Air To Purchase 50 New Jets Over Decade

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
United Airlines said on Tuesday it would spend billions of dollars over the next decade on 50 new jets, splitting its order between the Boeing Company's 787 and the Airbus A350. 
 Deliveries of the planes, which will replace United's Boeing 747s and 767s, are expected between 2016 and 2019.
At list prices, the new jets would be worth more than $10 billion, with about $4 billion for Boeing's 787-8 and about $6 billion for the Airbus planes. John Tague, president of United, said the carrier got a discount on the price, which is common for jet orders, though he did not specify how much.
 ''We felt that we had a significant opportunity by timing the order with the backdrop of the current economic environment,'' he said.
 United has not yet worked out financing for the planes, although Mr. Tague said the manufacturers had agreed to provide loans if needed. 
 The deal requires United to put up $152 million over the next five years. In October United raised about $424 million in a stock and notes offering, and it has been mortgaging other assets such as spare parts to get it through the drop-off in travel demand brought on by the recession.
 United said it had signed letters of intent for both planes. John Leahy, chief operating officer of Airbus, said the company expected a firm order in a month or two. That would bring total orders for the A350 to 530, Mr. Leahy said.
 ''We're not surprised by the decision to split the order,'' Mr. Leahy said. He said it was noteworthy because it was the first time United has ever ordered wide-body jets not made by Boeing.
 Both planes have two aisles and would usually be used on international flights. The 787-8 seats 210 to 250 people. Airbus said the A350 seats 314 in a typical configuration. Both can fly more than 9,000 miles enough to go nonstop from United's hub in Chicago to Shanghai.
 ''They give us access to virtually every region in the world from all of our hubs,'' Mr. Tague said.
 Both planes are made with composites, meant to be lighter and more fuel-efficient than the usual aluminum construction. Neither plane has ever flown. Boeing hopes its 787 will make its first flight by the end of this year, while Airbus is aiming to deliver its first A350 in 2013.
 Shares of Boeing fell 16 cents, to $55.66. Shares of United rose 4 cents, to $9.87. Both companies are based in Chicago. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Working inside a section of a Boeing 787 in South Carolina. Some Boeing 787s will replace 747s and 767s in United's fleet. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (98%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); AIRBUS SAS (85%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%) ILLINOIS, USA (89%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



264 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy Aims to Lure North Korea Back to Talks

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
President Obama's special representative to North Korea arrived in Pyongyang, the North's capital, on Tuesday, the highest-level American official visit in more than a year. The rare trip is part of an effort to halt the North's reactivated nuclear weapons program and persuade the North Koreans to return to nuclear disarmament talks. 
 The visit by the representative, Stephen W. Bosworth, signaled a new phase in United States diplomacy toward North Korea. For months, the United States had focused on punishing North Korea, leading an international campaign to enforce sanctions imposed on it for testing a long-range rocket in April and detonating a nuclear device in May. 
 Mr. Bosworth is the most senior American official to visit North Korea since October 2008, when Christopher R. Hill, who was then an assistant secretary of state, met North Korean officials in Pyongyang. Mr. Bosworth flew from a United States air base south of Seoul. Later, a one-line dispatch from the North's official Korean Central News Agency confirmed his arrival. He is scheduled to return to Seoul on Thursday. 
 His two-day stay in South Korea this week had been shrouded in secrecy as both Seoul and Washington struggled to resolve what analysts perceived as a division over how to deal with North Korea. Members of the conservative government of President Lee Myung-bak have questioned the wisdom of sending a high-level American envoy to North Korea without waiting for international sanctions to weaken the North's bargaining power. 
 ''South Korea fears that Bosworth's trip can create a split in the international efforts to put pressure on the North through sanctions,'' said Chang Yong-seok, an analyst at the Institute for Peace Affairs, in Seoul. ''The rift may grow, depending on the outcome of his trip.'' 
 Mindful of this concern, Washington emphasized that Mr. Bosworth was traveling with a narrow agenda: determining whether the North planned to return to six-nation nuclear talks and to recommit itself to a 2005 pledge to give up its nuclear assets in return for aid and security guarantees. 
 ''We don't intend to reward North Korea simply for going back to doing something that it had previously committed to do,'' a senior American official said in Washington during a background briefing on the eve of Mr. Bosworth's trip. 
 But Mr. Bosworth's visit was bound to include discussions on what rewards the North could expect if it returned to the talks and proceeded with denuclearization. North Korea wants a peace treaty with Washington and an end to what it calls a ''hostile'' United States policy before it considers giving up its nuclear weapons capacity. As a first step, the North is likely to demand talks on normalizing ties with Washington, analysts in Seoul said. 
 The offer would be difficult for Washington to resist if such talks were conditioned on freezing the North's nuclear programs, said Mr. Chang and Chon Hyun-joon, an analyst at the government-run Korea Institute for National Unification in Seoul. 
 Washington wants to freeze North Korea's nuclear weapons programs and bring the North back into the fold of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty while the United States grapples with the war in Afghanistan and Iran's nuclear program. 
 But so far, United States-led sanctions have failed to tame the North. Rather, the North Koreans have declared that they turned more plutonium into atomic bombs and started a new uranium-enrichment program for possible weapons. 
 Mr. Chang said that establishing a diplomatic foothold in North Korea -- like a liaison office as a preliminary step toward a full diplomatic mission -- could serve Washington amid uncertainty over the health of Kim Jong-il, the North Korean leader, and the prospects of his government. 
 With the North Korean economy in tatters, Mr. Kim, for his part, needs a diplomatic victory as he plans to hand over power to one of his three sons. 
 The potential for Mr. Bosworth's visit to restart talks between the United States and North Korea has been regarded cautiously by the government in Seoul.
 ''Fundamentally, it doesn't really matter whether Bosworth goes to Pyongyang or whether North Korea returns to six-party talks,'' said a senior South Korean official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing the political delicacy of the issue. 
 Playing down the significance of Mr. Bosworth's trip, the official added: ''What matters is whether the North Koreans are willing to give up their nuclear weapons. We think they won't, unless they feel enough pain.'' 
 President Lee has repeatedly emphasized that the United States and its allies should avoid ''repeating the past pattern'' of not punishing the North sufficiently for violating its pledges and of allowing it to use international talks as a tool to extract aid while it retains its nuclear weapons. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen W. Bosworth, an American envoy, arrived Tuesday in North Korea for nuclear talks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YAO XIMENG/XINHUA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); DISARMAMENT (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



265 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Climate Deal Likely to Bear Big Price Tag

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
If negotiators reach an accord at the climate talks in Copenhagen it will entail profound shifts in energy production, dislocations in how and where people live, sweeping changes in agriculture and forestry and the creation of complex new markets in global warming pollution credits.
 So what is all this going to cost? 
 The short answer is trillions of dollars over the next few decades. It is a significant sum but a relatively small fraction of the world's total economic output. In energy infrastructure alone, the transformational ambitions that delegates to the United Nationsclimate change conference are expected to set in the coming days will cost more than $10 trillion in additional investment from 2010 to 2030, according to a new estimate from the International Energy Agency. 
 As scary as that number sounds, the agency said that the costs would ramp up relatively slowly and be largely offset by economic benefits in new jobs, improved lives, more secure energy supplies and a reduced danger of climate catastrophe. Most of the investment will come from private rather than public funds, the agency contends.
 ''People often ask about the costs,'' said Kevin Parker, global head of Deutsche Bank Asset Management, who tracks climate policy. ''But the figures people tend to cite don't take into account conservation and efficiency measures that are easily available. And they don't look at the cost of inaction, which is the extinction of the human race.'' 
 Whatever global warming's effects -- and most scientific projections are less dire -- there are also varying estimates of the economic costs of failing to act to address the problem soon, some of them very high.
 Some of the most difficult topics for negotiators center on any potential deal's near-term financial arrangements. The poorest and most vulnerable nations seek a gigantic transfer of wealth from richer nations to island nations and countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America that are most likely to feel the ravages of climate change.
 Many poor nations are insisting that richer nations make deeper emissions cuts and contribute more to help poorer nations, a split that widened Tuesday as competing documents of a potential deal circulated. 
 Over time, some of the hundreds of billions of dollars the poorer countries are demanding will begin to flow, as global carbon markets become established and governments in rich countries begin to open the spigot. 
 But for now, the industrialized countries have proposed a relatively modest fund of about $10 billion a year for the next three or four years to help poorer countries adapt. Even that effort remains the subject of conflict over which countries should contribute how much, what body should oversee the spending and how to determine which projects qualify. 
 President Obama's spokesman said last week that Mr. Obama supported a short-term fund to aid developing nations and that the United States would pay ''its fair share.'' In many multilateral efforts, the United States picks up a quarter to a third of the tab.
 ''Providing this assistance,'' the White House said, ''is not only a humanitarian imperative -- it's an investment in our common security, as no climate change accord can succeed if it does not help all countries reduce their emissions.''
 The money would be used to help developing nations reduce emissions by switching to renewable energy sources like wind and solar and by compensating landowners for not cutting down or burning forests, a major source of emissions. Other funds might be used to adjust to effects of a changing climate, like rising seas, by building flood walls or relocating settlements.
 Mr. Obama will go to Copenhagen on Dec. 18 for the final day of the meeting, a sign that the White House believes that a far-reaching accord is possible.
 ''This is the question that is being posed in Copenhagen,'' said Robert N. Stavins, director of the environmental economics program at Harvard. ''How much money do the developed countries have to put on the table to bring developing countries into the conversation?''
 Mr. Stavins said that the bulk of the money would have to come from private investment because, he said, it was ''inconceivable'' that the governments of the wealthy countries would come up with adequate financing and also because private entities spent money much more efficiently. 
 The climate and energy legislation passed by the House in June sets aside roughly $8 billion a year for assistance to developing countries by 2030, he said. 
 Alvaro Umana Quesada, the leader of Costa Rica's delegation, said that it was important to the developing world to have early resources and a predictable flow of long-term financing. He said that the $10 billion in so-called quick start financing now on the table was adequate but that such spending had to rise to roughly $80 billion and as much as $150 billion a year by 2020. 
 ''That is not very much compared to the size of the world economy or the financial crisis bailouts,'' he said. ''There are great needs for adaptation, where the small island nations are really at risk. Some of them are one severe weather event away from disappearing.''
 The European Union has endorsed a fund of that size; the United States remains noncommittal. Mr. Obama has asked for $1.2 billion in climate-related financing in the 2010 budget. 
 Perhaps the most detailed analysis of the financing needs of any climate agreement comes from Project Catalyst, an initiative of the European Union and ClimateWorks, a policy group. 
 The group estimates that roughly $100 billion will be needed by 2020 to finance climate-change programs in the developing world. About half could come from the growing global market in carbon emissions credits under a cap-and-trade system, which would be worth an estimated $2 trillion a year by 2020. 
 A cap-and-trade system is operating in Europe and is being considered by Congress. It sets a ceiling on the carbon emissions of a country or industry and allows trading of pollution permits within the cap. As the limit on emissions grows tighter, the price of pollution permits rises, creating a market in carbon credits.
 Countries would grant some of the carbon market allowances directly to energy and environmental programs in the developing world, with other funds coming from a fee on each transaction.
 An additional $10 billion to $20 billion would come from taxes on fuels used in aviation and shipping. The rest, $25 billion to $35 billion, would be loans and grants from rich nations to poorer ones. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (85%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



266 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Going Cheney On Climate

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN. 
Maureen Dowd is off today.

 BODY:
In 2006, Ron Suskind published ''The One Percent Doctrine,'' a book about the U.S. war on terrorists after 9/11. The title was drawn from an assessment by then-Vice President Dick Cheney, who, in the face of concerns that a Pakistani scientist was offering nuclear-weapons expertise to Al Qaeda, reportedly declared: ''If there's a 1% chance that Pakistani scientists are helping Al Qaeda build or develop a nuclear weapon, we have to treat it as a certainty in terms of our response.'' Cheney contended that the U.S. had to confront a very new type of threat: a ''low-probability, high-impact event.'' 
 Soon after Suskind's book came out, the legal scholar Cass Sunstein, who then was at the University of Chicago, pointed out that Mr. Cheney seemed to be endorsing the same ''precautionary principle'' that also animated environmentalists. Sunstein wrote in his blog: ''According to the Precautionary Principle, it is appropriate to respond aggressively to low-probability, high-impact events -- such as climate change. Indeed, another vice president -- Al Gore -- can be understood to be arguing for a precautionary principle for climate change (though he believes that the chance of disaster is well over 1 percent).''
 Of course, Mr. Cheney would never accept that analogy. Indeed, many of the same people who defend Mr. Cheney's One Percent Doctrine on nukes tell us not to worry at all about catastrophic global warming, where the odds are, in fact, a lot higher than 1 percent, if we stick to business as usual. That is unfortunate, because Cheney's instinct is precisely the right framework with which to think about the climate issue -- and this whole ''climategate'' controversy as well.
 ''Climategate'' was triggered on Nov. 17 when an unidentified person hacked into the e-mails and data files of the University of East Anglia's Climatic Research Unit, one of the leading climate science centers in the world -- and then posted them on the Internet. In a few instances, they revealed some leading climatologists seemingly massaging data to show more global warming and excluding contradictory research.
 Frankly, I found it very disappointing to read a leading climate scientist writing that he used a ''trick'' to ''hide'' a putative decline in temperatures or was keeping contradictory research from getting a proper hearing. Yes, the climate-denier community, funded by big oil, has published all sorts of bogus science for years -- and the world never made a fuss. That, though, is no excuse for serious climatologists not adhering to the highest scientific standards at all times. 
 That said, be serious: The evidence that our planet, since the Industrial Revolution, has been on a broad warming trend outside the normal variation patterns -- with periodic micro-cooling phases -- has been documented by a variety of independent research centers.
 As this paper just reported: ''Despite recent fluctuations in global temperature year to year, which fueled claims of global cooling, a sustained global warming trend shows no signs of ending, according to new analysis by the World Meteorological Organization made public on Tuesday. The decade of the 2000s is very likely the warmest decade in the modern record.'' 
 This is not complicated. We know that our planet is enveloped in a blanket of greenhouse gases that keep the Earth at a comfortable temperature. As we pump more carbon-dioxide and other greenhouse gases into that blanket from cars, buildings, agriculture, forests and industry, more heat gets trapped. 
 What we don't know, because the climate system is so complex, is what other factors might over time compensate for that man-driven warming, or how rapidly temperatures might rise, melt more ice and raise sea levels. It's all a game of odds. We've never been here before. We just know two things: one, the CO2 we put into the atmosphere stays there for many years, so it is ''irreversible'' in real-time (barring some feat of geo-engineering); and two, that CO2 buildup has the potential to unleash ''catastrophic'' warming. 
 When I see a problem that has even a 1 percent probability of occurring and is ''irreversible'' and potentially ''catastrophic,'' I buy insurance. That is what taking climate change seriously is all about.
 If we prepare for climate change by building a clean-power economy, but climate change turns out to be a hoax, what would be the result? Well, during a transition period, we would have higher energy prices. But gradually we would be driving battery-powered electric cars and powering more and more of our homes and factories with wind, solar, nuclear and second-generation biofuels. We would be much less dependent on oil dictators who have drawn a bull's-eye on our backs; our trade deficit would improve; the dollar would strengthen; and the air we breathe would be cleaner. In short, as a country, we would be stronger, more innovative and more energy independent.
 But if we don't prepare, and climate change turns out to be real, life on this planet could become a living hell. And that's why I'm for doing the Cheney-thing on climate -- preparing for 1 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (79%); AL GORE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



267 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Tear Down That House

BYLINE: By PAUL O'NEILL. 
Paul O'Neill, the former chairman of Alcoa, was the secretary of the Treasury from 2001 to 2002.

 BODY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA has put job creation on the front burner -- he outlined his new plan in a speech yesterday, and at last week's jobs forum he said he was ''open to every demonstrably good idea'' to put Americans back to work. 
 Well, here's a proposition: Cities and towns across the country are the default owners of hundreds of thousands of abandoned and derelict single-family houses, apartment buildings and factories. These places are a blight on our communities.
 The federal government should reimburse cities and towns who hire people from the unemployment rolls to tear down these structures, clean up the properties and, if there is no immediate buyer for them, to turn them into green spaces.
 Not only will this create jobs, it will also provide lasting economic value as the properties get placed back on the tax rolls. And the program would give clear evidence that the taxpayers' (borrowed) dollars are producing a tangible public benefit. To encourage participation, Washington might consider giving cities and towns a 25 percent bonus -- beyond reimbursing them for what they spend on reclamation. We could get such a program running by early next year, and it could run through, say, mid-2011. 
 How do we get started? The first step is to figure out how many abandoned properties are out there. Right now, we have no idea. A group like the nonprofit National League of Cities could gather information from cities and towns across the country. Once we have a new census of the derelict, we can estimate a cost, match jobs to those who do not have them and get to work.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); CENSUS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



268 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Massachusetts Attorney General and State Senator Will Vie for Kennedy Seat

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Martha M. Coakley, the Massachusetts attorney general, captured the Democratic nomination Tuesday in the race for Edward M. Kennedy's United States Senate seat, easily defeating three men in a race that was notably bereft of drama.
 On the Republican side, State Senator Scott P. Brown of Wrentham defeated Jack E. Robinson, a lawyer. Ms. Coakley and Mr. Brown will face off in a special election on Jan. 19 for the seat Mr. Kennedy held for nearly five decades until his death in August. 
 With 98 percent of the precincts reporting, Ms. Coakley had 47 percent of the vote, followed by Representative Michael E. Capuano with 28 percent. Alan Khazei, who runs a national service program, had 13 percent of the vote, and Stephen Pagliuca, a co-owner of the Boston Celtics, had 12 percent. 
 Mr. Brown was the landslide winner in the Republican contest, with 89 percent of the vote compared with Mr. Robinson's 11 percent.
 Although this is the state's first Senate race with no incumbent since 1984 -- for a legendary seat that John F. Kennedy, Daniel Webster and John Quincy Adams held before Edward Kennedy -- polling places reported strikingly low turnout. Election officials said that may have been because voters were preoccupied with the holiday season. 
 Mr. Kennedy's seat has been held on an interim basis by Paul G. Kirk Jr., a longtime Kennedy friend and aide whom Gov. Deval Patrick appointed in September with the backing of Mr. Kennedy's widow and sons. 
 Ms. Coakley, 56, stood out as the only woman in the Democratic race, a distinction that probably played to her advantage even though Massachusetts has never elected a woman as governor or senator. 
 She secured an early endorsement from Emily's List, the influential fund-raising network for candidates who support abortion rights. And she quickly came out against the amendment restricting abortion access in the House health care bill last month, saying, ''It's personal with me, and it's personal with every woman.'' 
 About 37 percent of the state's 4.1 million registered voters are Democrats, and about 11 percent are Republicans, giving Ms. Coakley an advantage over Mr. Brown in the general election. Although Massachusetts has elected three Republican governors since 1990, it has not sent a Republican to the Senate in 37 years. 
 Mr. Brown, 50, is a lawyer and a lieutenant colonel in the Massachusetts National Guard who has served in the state legislature since 1996. He opposes same-sex marriage and the health care legislation being debated in Congress, and supports President Obama's decision to send more troops to Afghanistan. 
 Winning unaffiliated voters, who make up half of the state's electorate, will be crucial for Mr. Brown. He has emphasized his ability to work across party lines, while casting himself as the only candidate with conservative values. 
 Although they gushed tributes to Mr. Kennedy throughout the short primary campaign, none of the Democrats won a coveted endorsement from Victoria Reggie Kennedy, his widow, or any high-profile member of the Kennedy clan. In the most visible hint of such support, Caroline Kennedy attended a fund-raiser for Mr. Khazei last month. 
 Ms. Coakley was the first to declare her candidacy, barely a week after Mr. Kennedy's death in August, and made fewer references to him than her rivals. She billed herself as ''a different kind of leader,'' even though all four Democrats had nearly identical positions on most issues. All, like Mr. Kennedy, espoused liberal values, supporting abortion rights, same-sex marriage and universal health care and opposing the death penalty. 
 Mr. Capuano billed himself as a scrappy Washington insider who knows how to get things done. Mr. Pagliuca, a wealthy investor, said his business acumen would help solve the state's economic problems, while Mr. Khazei, whose organization, City Year, recruits young adults for a year of community service, promised to challenge the status quo as a political outsider. 
 But Ms. Coakley raised more money than the three men and enjoyed higher name recognition because of her three years as attorney general. Earlier, as a prosecutor in the Middlesex County District Attorney's Office, she won fame as the lead prosecutor in the high-profile trial of Louise Woodward, a British au pair convicted in 1997 of killing a baby boy in her care.
 Ms. Coakley got a last-minute boost from former President Bill Clinton, who recorded a phone message on her behalf that was sent to thousands of likely primary voters. She backed his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, in the Democratic presidential primary last year, even though Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Patrick and other top Massachusetts Democrats strongly supported Barack Obama. 
 None of the candidates have an outsize personality like Mr. Kennedy's, and some went to unusual lengths to capture voter attention during the sleepy contest. Mr. Pagliuca took the Celtics' 2008 NBA championship trophy on the campaign trail, and Mr. Khazei ran a television advertisement featuring talking babies. 
 Mr. Brown, however, did not draw attention to the fact that he posed nude for Cosmopolitan magazine in 1982, when he was a first-year law student at Boston College. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Martha Coakley, the Massachusetts attorney general, at a victory celebration Tuesday night in Boston after winning the Democratic nomination to fill the seat vacated by Senator Edward M. Kennedy's death in August. Ms. Coakley will face State Senator Scott P. Brown, the winner of the Republican contest. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FUNDRAISING (62%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); ABORTION (62%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON CELTICS (56%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (92%); MARTHA COAKLEY (91%); SCOTT BROWN (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); DEVAL PATRICK (58%); MICHAEL E CAPUANO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



269 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan's President Says Army Will Need Allies' Help Until 2024 or Longer

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. and ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
President Hamid Karzai said Tuesday that Afghanistan would not be able to pay for its own security until at least 2024, underscoring his government's long-term financial dependence on the United States and NATO even as President Obama has pledged to begin withdrawing American troops in 2011.
 Mr. Karzai spoke at a news conference here with Secretary of Defense Robert M. Gates, who did not put a timetable on the American and allied financial commitment but acknowledged that there was a ''realism on our part that it will be some time before Afghanistan is able to sustain its security forces entirely on its own.'' 
 The news conference came just hours after as many as a dozen people were killed during an allied raid in Laghman Province, Afghan officials said, prompting hundreds of villagers to march in protest.
 The early morning operation outside the provincial capital, Mehtar Lam, east of Kabul, happened ''without any coordination with the Afghan forces or Afghan officials,'' said Sayed Ahmed Safi, a spokesman for the governor of Laghman. He said one woman was among the dead, which included civilians as well as insurgents, all killed by small-arms fire. He said the troops also detained four men.
 After Afghan security forces blocked marchers from entering Mehtar Lam, gunfire broke out, killing one protester and wounding two others, he said.
 NATO confirmed the raid and said that seven militants were killed but that there were no ''reports to substantiate those claims of harming civilians, including women and children.'' 
 The target of the raid was a Taliban bomb maker. A military spokesman said he did not know whether the troops involved were American or from another NATO country. 
 The Afghan Interior Ministry said a delegation had been sent to investigate, and urged residents not to resort to violence.
 If the civilian dead are confirmed, the raid would be one of the worst recent episodes resulting in civilian casualties, which have engendered antipathy toward American and NATO forces among Afghan citizens and officials. 
 The American commander in Afghanistan, Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, tightened rules on airstrikes last summer in an effort to reduce civilian casualties. 
 But while civilian casualties continue to anger Afghan officials, Mr. Karzai's comments on Tuesday highlighted just how much the government could be forced to rely on the United States and other NATO countries for decades to come.
 ''For another 15 to 20 years, Afghanistan will not be able to sustain a force of that nature and capability with its own resources,'' Mr. Karzai said, referring to the force required to secure the entire country. 
 The subject was one of the main reasons that Mr. Gates arrived here Tuesday on an unannounced visit. He said a major topic of discussion with Mr. Karzai would be how fast the Afghans could recruit, train and retain their own security forces, the key to the planned American withdrawal that is supposed to begin in July 2011.
 The price of building up Afghan forces to take over significant security duties could be enormous. Some estimates say it will take up to $50 billion over five years to increase army and police rolls to 400,000, the level sought by General McChrystal.
 At the news conference, Mr. Gates held out the possibility that a future improvement in Afghanistan's finances would defray some of the costs.
 ''Whether that is 15 or 20 years, we'll hope for accelerated economic development in Afghanistan,'' he said, adding that ''as the Afghan economy expands, then the proportion of the costs of supporting the Afghan security forces will diminish.''
 He also said there was a possibility that the size of Afghan security forces could shrink, ''as is often the case after the end of a conflict.''
 Mr. Gates, the first member of Mr. Obama's national security team to travel to Afghanistan since Mr. Obama announced last week that he would send an additional 30,000 troops to the country, told reporters en route to Kabul that he had already signed orders for the deployment of 17,000 additional personnel, and that most would be in place in southern Afghanistan by the spring.
 Included in the group are 1,500 Marines from Camp Lejeune, N.C., who will deploy later this month; an additional 6,200 Marines from Camp Lejeune, who will deploy in early spring; and a brigade combat team of about 3,400 soldiers from the 10th Mountain Division at Fort Drum, N.Y., who will also deploy next spring to train Afghan security forces.
 Mr. Gates said that one ''eye opener'' for the Americans was learning that the Taliban often paid their militia fighters more than the Afghan government paid its soldiers and police officers, and that a pay increase for the Afghan security forces was crucial to building them up.
 Another problem, Mr. Gates said, was that the Afghan security forces were spread far too thin. ''Attrition is higher in the areas where the combat is heavier,'' he said. ''The reason is there aren't enough of them. And they basically fight until they die, or they go AWOL.''
 Rotating in more Afghan soldiers, he said, ''would be an important part of the retention piece as well.''
 Asked if it was not ''late in the game'' in an eight-year-old war to begin learning these facts about Afghan security forces, Mr. Gates replied that ''there's a lot of this that's late in the game, frankly.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, left, arrived in Kabul on Tuesday for talks with Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM FERGUSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (90%); ROBERT M GATES (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



270 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Relief Plan Shows Weak Results

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Only one in three homeowners who have signed up for the Obama administration's mortgage relief plan have sent back the necessary paperwork, highlighting continuing problems for the government's effort to stem the foreclosure crisis. 
 The poor results from the mortgage industry drew sharp criticism from House Financial Services Committee members on Tuesday. Since the program was started in March, lenders have made loan modification offers to just 680,000 borrowers, far short of the administration's goal of up to four million.
 ''Taxpayer-funded foreclosure mitigation programs have been an abject failure,'' said Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, at a hearing on the program. ''Throwing more money at programs that do not work is absolutely insane.''
 Under the program, eligible borrowers who are behind or at risk of default can have their mortgage interest rate reduced to as low as 2 percent for five years. They are given temporary modifications, which are supposed to become permanent after the borrowers make three payments on time and complete necessary paperwork, including proof of income and a hardship letter.
 Much of the criticism for the disappointing results has been leveled at the banks.
 Lenders, however, say the majority of borrowers either do not complete the paperwork or do not make the payments. At Bank of America, for example, only a quarter of the 65,000 borrowers in trial modifications have sent back their paperwork.
 The bank blamed ''ineffective communications with customers, shortcomings in document maintenance, misunderstandings about program requirements, and the inability to comply by some borrowers,'' according to written remarks from Jack Schakett, Bank of America's credit loss mitigation strategies executive.
 But those explanations only prompted House members to threaten more legislation to curb the foreclosure crisis. A record 14 percent of homeowners with a mortgage are either behind on their payments or in foreclosure. Bargain-price foreclosures are dragging down home values in neighborhoods across the country. Nationwide, American homeowners have lost $4 trillion in home equity since the housing bust.
 ''We are terribly frustrated by what's happening,'' said Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, the committee chairman. He has proposed attaching $3 billion in assistance for unemployed homeowners to a bill set for a vote in the House this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); BARNEY FRANK (56%); JEB HENSARLING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



271 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Obama Sets Plan to Spur Job Creation

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Carl Hulse and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama and Congress are ending the year as they began it, at work on an economic stimulus package of tax cuts and spending, with the latest effort likely to raise the total cost of antirecession measures to the $1 trillion level that some economists had urged last winter.
 In a speech on Tuesday, Mr. Obama outlined proposals intended to promote job creation. They included incentives for small businesses to hire more workers, additional money to build roads and other construction projects, and rebates for homeowners who invest in energy-saving weatherizing improvements. 
 Mr. Obama did not put a price on the proposals, which would add to the $787 billion that Congress allocated last winter to revive the economy. But he said the cost could be offset by some of the $200 billion in lower-than-expected spending on the bailout of financial institutions.
 More than half of the original stimulus package remains in the pipeline, with many road building and construction projects beginning in 2010. But Mr. Obama, in his address at the Brookings Institution, a policy research organization, said further stimulus was needed to spur employers to hire and bring down a jobless rate that stands at 10 percent.
 ''Our work is far from done,'' he said. ''For even though we've reduced the deluge of job losses to a relative trickle, we are not yet creating jobs at a pace to help all those families who've been swept up in the flood.''
 Mr. Obama proposed several new ideas, saying he would hash out the details with Congress, which is working on parallel tracks on its own proposals. Final action will not occur until early next year. House leaders have given up their plans to pass a jobs bill this month.
 The president's new proposals include eliminating capital gains taxes on small business investment and creating ''cash for caulkers'' rebates for consumers who invest in home-weatherization projects -- an idea modeled on the popular ''cash for clunkers'' program that increased auto sales over the summer.
 Most of Mr. Obama's proposals, however, expanded on the original stimulus package, which was intended to work over several years and was passed when 700,000 jobs a month were being lost. The economy lost 11,000 jobs last month. 
 The elimination of capital gains taxes would expand on a break in the stimulus law, which let small businesses exclude 75 percent of gains from taxes.
 Mr. Obama also would extend through 2010 a break allowing small businesses to immediately write off as much as $250,000 in qualified investments, and a second break allowing small and large businesses to deduct more capital expenses upfront.
 With small businesses complaining that they cannot get bank loans, Mr. Obama proposed to eliminate fees and increase government guarantees in 2010 for loans from the Small Business Administration. He said the Treasury would step up loans to small businesses from the bank bailout fund, the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
 ''There has rarely been a less loved or more necessary emergency program than TARP,'' Mr. Obama said, acknowledging widespread populist anger over the program. But ''as galling as the assistance to banks may have been,'' he added, it ''indisputably helped prevent a collapse of the entire financial system.''
 This week the Treasury Department released projections that taxpayers would get back most of the $700 billion budgeted for the program. Mr. Obama said the resulting savings could lower the deficit and ''shift funds that would have gone to help the banks on Wall Street to help create jobs on Main Street.''
 He proposed to increase by an unspecified amount the spending in the stimulus law for rebuilding highways, railroads, airports and water projects. He also is seeking $50 billion to leverage public and private investments to finance infrastructure projects.
 Mr. Obama said he wanted more subsidies for green jobs. The administration received far more qualified applications, particularly from makers of wind turbines and solar panels, than it had money to give, he said. 
 Besides money to create jobs, the president and Congress want to extend emergency unemployment benefits that otherwise will expire at the end of the year.
 That relief would cost roughly $100 billion. Last month, Congress spent about $30 billion on unemployment benefits, a popular tax credit for home buyers and business tax breaks. According to available estimates, the sort of proposals that Mr. Obama and Congress are considering could easily exceed $100 billion more, depending on the details. 
 Searching for ways to reduce deficits once the economy recovers, the leaders of the Senate Budget Committee are expected on Wednesday to announce an agreement for a bipartisan commission to recommend spending cuts and revenue increases.
 Officials said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, and Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, would propose an 18-member bipartisan commission to make recommendations on which Congress could vote after the 2010 elections. 
 The lawmakers want Congress to consider the proposal this month when it must vote on increasing the debt limit. But some leading Democrats in Congress and the White House are opposed. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a speech at the Brookings Institution in Washington, President Obama offered proposals intended to spur job creation, but he put no price on his plans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (91%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (71%); BANK FAILURES (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); SALES REBATES (58%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



272 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Stanley Shuffles Its Top Ranks

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
Putting his stamp on one of the most venerable names on Wall Street, the incoming chief executive of Morgan Stanley announced a management shake-up on Tuesday that, for the most part, signaled a smooth transition of leadership. 
 James P. Gorman, who will succeed John J. Mack as chief executive on Jan. 1, named three confidants of Mr. Mack to important roles, while demoting the executive who oversaw the bank's lackluster sales and trading division. 
 Mr. Gorman, a lanky Australian whose ascension after just four years at Morgan Stanley represents a potential break with the Mack years, promoted Thomas R. Nides, Mr. Mack's chief administrative officer, to the newly created post of chief operating officer. 
 He also named two executives to the position of co-president -- a power-sharing arrangement that, in the past, has created headaches at other banks. As co-presidents, Colm Kelleher, now chief financial officer, and Paul J. Taubman, currently head of global investment banking, will share responsibility for Morgan Stanley's institutional securities operation, the bank's largest business in terms of revenue. 
 While Mr. Gorman is generally following the lead of Mr. Mack, who will remain chairman, the shake-up claimed at least one of Mr. Mack's top executives. Michael J. Petrick, the head of sales and trading, was demoted after his division fell behind those of rivals, notably Goldman Sachs, as the financial markets soared this year. Morgan Stanley said it was negotiating with Mr. Petrick about another position. 
 Mr. Gorman and his team are moving to invigorate Morgan Stanley and secure its position as a premier Wall Street bank. The departure of Mr. Mack as chief executive was the end of an era for the bank, which rode out the financial crisis with aid from the federal government and a big investment from Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group of Japan. 
 Ruth Porat will succeed Mr. Kelleher as chief financial officer. She worked closely with the United States Treasury during the financial crisis, acting as an adviser on the government rescue of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other troubled institutions.
 The current head of the institutional securities group, Walid Chammah, will take over a previously announced position running Morgan Stanley International, based in London.
 When the hard-charging Mr. Mack announced in September that he would step down as chief executive but remain chairman, many analysts wondered whether Mr. Gorman would have a free hand in running the bank. Mr. Gorman joined Morgan Stanley four years ago from Merrill Lynch, where he ran the global private client business. Before that he was a senior partner at McKinsey & Company.
 In a memo to employees on Tuesday, Mr. Gorman said that in the last three months he held more than 100 one-on-one meetings and spoke with about 500 managing directors while considering the future of Morgan Stanley.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paul J. Taubman, left, and Colm Kelleher were named co-presidents and will share responsibility for the institutional securities operation. Ruth Porat was appointed chief financial officer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MORGAN STANLEY
 MORGAN STANLEY, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS, CENTER, RIGHT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SALES MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); GLOBALIZATION (67%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (90%); MTU (NYSE) (81%); 8306 (TSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (63%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (89%); JOHN J MACK (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



273 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Sales in U.S. Fell Again In November

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The McDonald's Corporation said on Tuesday that sales at existing restaurants in the United States fell for a second consecutive month in November as lower-priced items at competing chains lured customers. 
 Weakness in Germany and China also pressured sales, which analysts said were worse than expected throughout the world. 
 Sales at restaurants open at least 13 months in the United States fell 0.6 percent, the latest sign that the fast-food sector, which had performed well through most of the recession, was weakening.
 The sales decline at McDonald's comes less than a week after a rival fast-food chain, Yum Brands, forecast weaker-than-expected fourth-quarter sales.
 Shares of McDonald's, which is based in Oak Brook, Ill., fell $1.32, or 2.1 percent, to close at $60.61.
 ''It does not bode well for spending in the restaurant category,'' said Tom Forte, an analyst at the Telsey Advisory Group. He added that high unemployment among 18- to 34-year-olds was weighing on the fast-food industry that McDonald's dominates.
 Fast-food chains like McDonald's were outperforming other restaurant categories until just recently, when rising unemployment began to cut into sales, particularly at breakfast, where McDonald's leads the industry.
 McDonald's has been doing better than other fast-food chains in the United States by offering a variety of items on its popular dollar menu.
 But its rivals are stepping up with a broad range of inexpensive fare, including a new $1 double cheeseburger from Burger King, a new 99-cent menu from Dunkin Donuts and a value menu from Yum's Taco Bell that offers items for less than $1.
 Same-restaurant sales were up 0.7 percent over all for November, helped by a 2.5 percent increase rise in Europe, McDonald's said. Same-restaurant sales fell 1 percent in the company's Asia/Pacific, Middle East and Africa region, hurt by China.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (93%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (92%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (98%); YUM! BRANDS INC (70%); TACO BELL CORP (53%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (53%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%); YUM (NYSE) (70%); DNKN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2009



274 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: A Land Where Car Sales Leap, but Gasoline Sales Stay Flat

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: GUANGZHOU, China 

 BODY:
Auto sales are so strong in China that an unusual conspiracy theory has circulated on Western stock markets this month: the Chinese government must be secretly buying hundreds of thousands of cars and parking them somewhere.
 The main evidence presented for the theory is that the number of gallons of gasoline consumed in China has been flat this year. But auto executives and Chinese buyers deny the rumor, which has spread so widely that economists have begun producing reports on why it is implausible.
 Kevin Wale, the president of General Motors China, said that automakers knew who was buying their cars and saw no evidence of a car-buying conspiracy. Sharp improvements in fuel economy -- partly because of government mandates and partly because of a shift to smaller cars -- help explain the slow growth in gasoline sales, he said. 
 A series of recent increases in regulated fuel prices may have also discouraged some driving, he added.
 In interviews over the last three weeks in Kunming in southwestern China, in Nantong in east-central China and here in Guangzhou in southeastern China, residents complained of cars being sold out at dealerships because many people wanted to buy as incomes rose, loans became available and extensive new highways opened.
 Li Qi, a 45-year-old lumber dealer who already owns a 40-inch flat-panel television and a BMW 325i sedan, sat at a table near the end of the long row of dealerships in Guangzhou on a recent afternoon and disconsolately peeled an egg that had been hard-boiled in tea. He complained of missing his chance to buy a Land Rover S.U.V. when he saw several in a dealership last month.
 ''I wanted to think about it, and now they are gone,'' he said, adding that he had just put his name on a monthlong waiting list.
 Nissan has a waiting list of two to three months in China for its Teana midsize car, which is similar in size to the Altima sold in the United States, but it is costlier and comes with more standard equipment in China, like computer navigation aids.
 Nissan produces the car in China for the Chinese market. The company cannot import the Teana manufactured at its factory in Japan because the technical specifications are slightly different for the Japanese market and because China still has steep tariffs on imported cars, said Kimiyasu Nakamura, the chief executive and president of the Dongfeng Motor Company, a Nissan joint venture in China.
 But rising auto sales do not translate directly into rising gasoline consumption.
 Stephen Green, an economist in the Shanghai office of Standard Chartered, calculated that the number of registered cars in China would rise 24 percent this year, a little more than half the growth rate in sales. Older, less fuel-efficient cars are being retired and replaced with fuel-sipping models, he said in a report on Nov. 16.
 Light industry accounts for 40 percent of gasoline consumption in China and has slowed because of global economic difficulties, while commercial light trucks are also big users of gasoline and are probably being driven fewer miles because of weaker demands for freight movements, he wrote.
 J.D. Power & Associates expects the United States to regain the annual lead in number of cars and light trucks from 2012 through 2014 as the American economy recovers from the downturn. J.D. Power also predicts that China will move ahead for keeps in 2015 because it has four times as many people as the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); IMPORT TRADE (84%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); EVIDENCE (78%); GASOLINE (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); SEDANS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (64%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (51%)

COMPANY: DONGFENG MOTOR GROUP CO LTD (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: 0489 (HKSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) SOUTH CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%); EAST CHINA (79%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); YUNNAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



275 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Cutting Back? Not in China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Hilda Wang contributed reporting.

DATELINE: GUANGZHOU, China 

 BODY:
For the first time, Chinese will buy more cars this year than Americans. Demand is so high that drivers put their names on long waiting lists for the most popular models.
 ''I'm disappointed, but what can I do?'' asked Zhang Ge Lu, a 28-year-old interior designer. He came recently with two friends to a row of dealerships here in southeastern China to buy a black Toyota RAV4, only to be told that he would have to wait two months for delivery.
 And it is not just cars. For more and more consumer goods, China is surpassing the United States as the world's biggest market -- from cars to refrigerators to washing machines, even desktop computers. 
 The Chinese market is ''on full tilt -- booming is an understatement these days,'' said John Bonnell, the director of Asia vehicle forecasting at J.D. Power & Associates. 
 China is pulling ahead at this particular moment partly because Americans, debt-laden and worried about their jobs, are pulling back. After decades of gorging on consumption, Americans are saving. And the Chinese, whom economists thought were addicted to saving, are spending more. 
 Among China's 1.3 billion people, rising incomes are finally making large numbers of Chinese prosperous enough to make big-ticket purchases.
 The question is: will they keep spending? The Beijing government is increasing consumption with rebates, subsidies and heavy bank lending. Whether China can turn the spending spree into the seeds of a true consumer society matters not just to China, but to the world. 
 For years, the West has pushed China to increase domestic consumption and reduce its dependence on exports -- that's because its overdependence on exports has distorted global trade. 
 To keep its export machine humming, China kept its currency undervalued to make its goods more competitive in foreign markets. The county beggared its own citizens, keeping salaries and bank deposit interest rates artificially low to support exporters. 
 China's trade surpluses and extensive intervention in currency markets have led it to amass $2.27 trillion in reserves, mainly in United States Treasuries, mortgage-backed securities and other dollar-denominated investments, helping to keep interest rates low and finance Americans' borrowing. Chinese parsimony enabled American profligacy. 
 If the Chinese buy more and Americans save more, a more stable global economic exchange can take shape. In the meantime, China's rapid consumption growth is good news for the whole world. For the first time, China, not the United States, is a locomotive helping to pull the global economy out of a slump. But China's tiny appetite for American exports means that the main benefit has gone to commodity exporters and to businesses in China. 
 Automakers are on track to sell 12.8 million cars and light trucks in China this year, virtually all of them made in China (although many are foreign brands), compared with 10.3 million in the United States. Appliance manufacturers expect to sell 185 million refrigerators, washing machines and other pieces of kitchen and laundry equipment in China this year, compared with 137 million in the American market. 
 In desktop computers, China moved solidly ahead of the United States in the third quarter, buying 7.2 million compared with 6.6 million in the United States. 
 Retail sales are growing 17 percent a year in China after adjusting for inflation, almost twice as fast as the overall economy. 
 Americans have been cutting back on purchases of everything from shoes to furniture to jewelry. But Chinese households are crossing a series of income thresholds at which cars and other big-ticket purchases become affordable.
 At the same time, Chinese banks are stepping up consumer lending. The proportion of car sales financed with loans has doubled this year, to nearly 25 percent, although most Chinese still head for dealerships with bricks of 100-renminbi notes, each note worth about $14.62. Credit card spending rose 40 percent in the first nine months of the year compared with the same period last year, yet China still has just one credit card for every eight people, compared to two credit cards for each American man, woman and child. 
 While it is spreading creature comforts, China's lending-based prosperity may also be sowing the seeds of future economic problems. China's Banking Regulatory Commission recently told banks to show restraint in lending for the rest of the year, fearful that some of this year's loans could become bad debts in the next several years, as happened with the mortgage lending spree in the United States.
 The regulator threatened to block banks' overseas investments and branch openings unless they can demonstrate adequate capital to cover risks.
 The size of China's consumer market, notwithstanding its growth, will make it hard for China to rescue the world economy by itself. Total consumer spending in China is still less than a sixth of American consumer spending at current prices and exchange rates. That is mainly because China has relatively few restaurants, hotels and other service businesses, even as sales of manufactured goods have risen. 
 The average price tags on most Chinese products are much lower than in Western markets. For many products, including some in which China leads in the sheer number of goods, the total dollar value of sales in China is still smaller than in the United States.
 The average new car sells for $17,000 in China compared with almost $30,000 in the United States, according to J.D. Power. This is because Chinese consumers buy more subcompacts and fewer sport utility vehicles. While the Chinese market is one-quarter larger in the number of cars sold, the American market is still about two-thirds larger in dollar terms.
 Similarly, the United States market for household appliances is a third larger in dollars, even though the Chinese market is a third larger in the number of appliances. Cooking ranges in China are sold for countertop installation without a lot of other equipment, for example.
 ''You don't have the cook-a-turkey-in-the-oven type of product in China, because we don't have that kind of cooking,'' said Philip S. Carmichael, the president of Asian operations at Haier, China's biggest appliance manufacturer.
 But in some sectors, Chinese buyers are already proving more lavish than Americans. The average flat-panel television sold in China is bigger than in the United States, according to AU Optronics of Taiwan, the world's third-largest manufacturer of flat-panel televisions.
 When car sales began surging early this year, many auto executives attributed the boom to government incentives. To stimulate the economy, the government has offered rebates for rural families to buy cars and household appliances, and has cut sales taxes on cars with small engines.
 But the boom has broadened to categories that barely qualify for incentives. 
 S.U.V. sales rose 72 percent in October from a year earlier. At Nissan, sales of cars with larger engines that do not qualify for the sales tax reduction are growing even faster than sales of small-engine cars.
 Auto sales jumped 42 percent in the first 11 months of this year compared with sales in the same period last year. And sales are still accelerating, soaring 96 percent in November compared with the same month a year ago. Auto sales in the United States plunged 37 percent last month on the same basis. 
 China's consumers have the potential to buy even more in the years ahead. The savings rate is close to 40 percent -- and will remain high unless and until Beijing creates a social safety net for things like health care or retirement, which would encourage Chinese to spend more today. 
 And though annual incomes still average just $2,775 a person in cities and $840 in rural areas, Western economists predict the economy will grow almost 12 percent in each of the next two years and the renminbi is widely expected to appreciate someday, further increasing consumers' buying power.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Cadillac Escalade getting attention at a show in Guangzhou, China. The country's vehicle sales have been brisk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B1)
The Guangzhou auto show in China. Because of better wages, more consumers are able to buy big-ticket items like new vehicles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LU HANXIN/XINHUA, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B9) CHARTS: NEW VEHICLE SALES: Under six tons gross weight (Source: J.D. Power and Associates) (pg.B1)
 A RUSH TO SPEND: Heavy bank lending has led to a surge in retail sales in China over the past year, despite the global economic downturn. China now leads the United States in the number of cars, household appliances and other products sold each year. (Source: China National Bureau of Statistics via CEIC Data) (pg.B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); CURRENCIES (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (54%)

COMPANY: J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) SOUTH CHINA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



276 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: States Spend Less to Fight Smoking, Report Says

BYLINE: By DUFF WILSON

 BODY:
State governments are collecting record revenues from tobacco companies but spending less and less of it on antismoking programs, especially in New York, a group of health and advocacy organizations said in a report released Wednesday.
 In the report, titled ''A Broken Promise to Our Children,'' the organizations said state governments had reduced spending by 15 percent, to $567 million, for smoking prevention and cessation programs in the fiscal year that ended in September.
 State spending on antismoking programs accounted for only 2.3 percent of the more than $25 billion that states are expected to collect from tobacco taxes and payouts from the $246 billion settlement that states reached with tobacco companies in 1998, the groups said in their 11th annual report since the settlement. 
 ''It's a travesty that only a small fraction of tobacco settlement funds is actually being used to support tobacco prevention programs in states,'' Nancy Brown, chief executive of the American Heart Association -- one of the groups behind the report -- said in a statement.
 States are not required to spend the money on antismoking programs. The National Conference of State Legislatures reported Wednesday that states had to fill a cumulative budget gap of $145 billion this year because of unprecedented revenue declines.
 States' tobacco-related revenue has grown because 14 states have raised taxes on tobacco in the recession and the payouts from the 1998 tobacco settlement increased in 2008.
 New York State made some of the largest cuts to antismoking programs, reducing them by $25.2 million, or 31 percent, the groups said, adding that it did so ''despite having a successful program that has reduced smoking to well below national rates.''
 Other states that made large cuts last year were Colorado, Maryland, Pennsylvania and Washington.
 Only one state, North Dakota, has smoking prevention and cessation programs at the level recommended by the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the report said. 
 Matt Anderson, budget spokesman for Gov. David A. Paterson of New York, said the state had to cut the programs to help fill a $3 billion deficit. 
 ''Because of the magnitude of the fiscal emergency, that's going to mean less funding for some worthy programs,'' Mr. Anderson said in a telephone interview. 
 He added that New York still spent more than $50 million on antismoking programs, including a smaller advertising campaign, free nicotine patches and a toll-free quit line.
 Matthew L. Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, another advocacy group involved in the report, said state budget deficits should not be used as an excuse to cut tobacco prevention programs.
 Russell Sciandra, director of the Center for a Tobacco Free New York, said: ''The cuts here are very disproportionate to what other states are doing. It's like they regard it as some kind of fluffy program.''
 The other groups involved in the report, including the American Cancer Society, American Lung Association and Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, said it was shortsighted to cut smoking programs. They called on Congress to ensure that more disease prevention initiatives were part of health care changes.
 The report says tobacco companies spend $20 on marketing for every $1 that states spend on antismoking efforts. The five largest tobacco companies spent $12.5 billion on advertising and promotion in 2006, the latest year figures were available, a Federal Trade Commission spokeswoman, Betsy Lordan, said.
 Adult smoking in the United States has leveled off at about 21 percent, virtually unchanged since 2004, the report said, while smoking among high school students declined to 20 percent in 2008, from 36 percent in 1997.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TOBACCO MFG (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SMOKING CESSATION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



277 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 502 words

 BODY:
TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week on the blog, David Stravitz, the author of ''The Chrysler Building: Creating a New York Icon Day by Day,'' is answering readers' questions. Here are excerpts: 
 Q. Why was the current landlord permitted to demolish the beautiful, historic Art Deco speakeasy that was built on some of the uppermost floors of the building? As I understand it, this was destroyed to make way for office space. So sad. JoeBoy
 A. Actually, that place, the Cloud Club, was demolished not by the current landlord (the government of Abu Dhabi owns 90 percent of it), but maybe four owners ago or more. 
 Best guess, it was demolished in 1971, for economic reasons. This was at the time the building was really falling into serious disrepair. Instead of preserving a gem of a landmark, just as with the destruction of Pennsylvania Station they decided to ''trash it,'' for goodness' sake! There was nothing to protect it, and that's so unfortunate. 
 Q. Where did the African marble in the lobby come from? Also, is it true there is a bathroom in the very top of the tower? Don
 A. Many of the slabs are Moroccan rouge flamme marble streamed with white and other colors. They were used to line the walls of the main concourse. 
 The elevator lobbies are framed in amber Mexican onyx, and the floor is tiled in sienna travertine.
 Walter Chrysler insisted on having the highest bathroom in the world. He succeeded for six months. Was there a higher bathroom in the Empire State Building? Must have been! 
 So until perhaps the early part of 1931, his throne was the highest in the world.
 Q. Who currently has the office at the very top of the building with the four windows on each side? Steve
 A. To the best of my knowledge, it was occupied by a dentist. I imagine that at that height, you could feel the structure swaying. Ouch!
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 Using Art for the Census: Can art be used to encourage participation in the census? The Census Bureau hopes so. 
 Drawing upon the Latino cultural tradition of painting in community spaces, the agency has commissioned a large mural in East Harlem as part of a campaign to get Latinos to send in their census forms.
 New Hudson River Tunnel: The directors of New Jersey Transit approved a $583 million contract on Wednesday for digging a train tunnel under the West Side of Midtown Manhattan. It is intended to supplement the existing tunnels that carry riders into the city from New Jersey and other points west and south.
 The imminent construction of the tunnel is the biggest public works project under way in the country, with an estimated cost of $8.7 billion. It will stretch from the New Jersey Palisades to a new station deep under 34th Street, near Macy's flagship store.
 Charges Based on Text Messages: An Indiana man is facing charges that he stalked and harassed the mother of the singer Ashanti, but prosecutors in Manhattan are not relying on evidence that people typically associate with stalking. Instead, they are relying on text messages.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Stravitz, an expert on the Chrysler Building. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (86%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (85%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); PAINTING (77%); LOBBYING (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (65%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (64%); TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



278 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: The Market Takes Shape, Discouraging the Mets

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS 

 BODY:
A fallback option for the Mets and several other teams last winter, Randy Wolf set the free-agent pitching market Wednesday by agreeing to a lucrative three-year deal with the Milwaukee Brewers.
 Ivan Rodriguez joined Brian Schneider among second-string catchers signing two-year contracts. And Yorvit Torrealba, a potential backup with the Colorado Rockies, appears close to re-signing through 2011.
 Not many teams have been active at the winter meetings here, but they seem to be shaping the Mets' plans. 
 To sign a starting pitcher, the Mets will probably have to go beyond their comfort level by offering a longer, more lucrative contract, a development that influenced them to consider pursuing John Lackey. The Mets realize it may be more prudent -- though more expensive -- to bid for the best free-agent pitcher rather than paying a lot of money for less production. 
 To sign Bengie Molina to be their regular catcher, the Mets will almost certainly guarantee him a second year, whether they want to or not. The Mets were planning to make Molina, who hit .265 with 20 home runs for the San Francisco Giants last season, an offer before leaving the winter meetings Thursday, but they did not expect an immediate resolution. 
 ''Look, we're going to evaluate every player not based upon what other clubs do,'' General Manager Omar Minaya said. ''We're going to evaluate them based on how we see the talent.''
 The Mets were discouraged by Wolf's deal, which has been widely reported to be worth $29.75 million with a $10 million option for 2013, and they are not alone. The Brewers' zeal is bound to drive up the price for Lackey and Joel Pineiro into levels the Mets and other teams hardly expected, even if Minaya characterized the market differently. 
 Minaya suggested that agents' contract requests have been driven more by contracts from past years, not this one. For example, Lackey could try to use A. J. Burnett's five-year, $82.5 million deal from the Yankees as a benchmark. 
 ''The sense that I'm getting with a lot of the agents is they're being slow, too,'' Minaya said. ''It's not like they're jumping into deals.''
 That patience could help the Mets, who are in position to spread their money among a few free agents but have the payroll flexibility to take on one major free-agent contract. 
 Whether the Mets would make a bigger play for Lackey or their greatest need, a slugging left fielder like Matt Holliday or Jason Bay, is unclear. Other teams say the Mets are making power a priority, but Minaya indicated that he could strike quickly on whichever deal came together first. 
 ''We can go either way,'' Minaya said, adding later: ''Right now, it's more a timing issue. If an agent wants to get a deal done, that can determine which way you want to go -- offense or pitching.''
 As Minaya put it, Scott Boras, the agent who represents Holliday, ''is not one to rush to get a deal done,'' and a market for Holliday or Bay has yet to crystallize. Of the two, Holliday would seem a better fit -- and command a higher price -- because he is a better defensive outfielder. 
 ''The Mets have a network and they have an infrastructure there that is a juggernaut economically,'' Boras said in promoting a possible match between his client and the team. He added, ''The Mets can sign any player they want to sign if they so choose to.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%)

ORGANIZATION: MILWAUKEE BREWERS (84%); COLORADO ROCKIES (57%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (59%) INDIANA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



279 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: The Cotton Blossom Is Dry-Docked, but Ol' Man River Keeps Rollin' Along

BYLINE: By DAVID BELCHER

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va. 

 BODY:
The landmark 1927 musical ''Show Boat'' has traveled a journey as winding as the Mississippi River, and its newest scaled-down incarnation at the Signature Theater here is an experiment -- more pedal boat than paddle wheel. What is being fondly called ''No Boat'' (no two-tiered riverboat is recreated onstage) may or may not be the future of this lavish, rarely performed show.
 ''Show Boat'' has carried with it enormous demands for any theater company. Its multilayered story depicts the life of entertainers onboard a Mississippi riverboat from 1887 to 1927. In addition to replicating a riverboat, ''Show Boat'' usually requires a cast of about 50 and an orchestra of about 28. As a result only about a half-dozen theater companies tackled the show in 2008 in the United States.
 The Signature's ''Show Boat'' is more indicative of 2009 economic frugality than Jazz Age excess. 
 Eric Schaeffer, the Signature's artistic director and the director of this ''Show Boat,'' petitioned the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization and the heirs of Edna Ferber (author of the 1926 novel) to allow the Signature to reconceive the show for a more intimate space and to have Jonathan Tunick reorchestrate the score for 15 musicians.
 ''I thought it was something that was ready to be explored,'' Mr. Schaeffer said. ''There are great characters, and we wanted to bring them to the forefront. I proposed a breakdown of how to do it with 24 people and showed them how parts could double.''
 This chamber version of the musical by Jerome Kern and Oscar Hammerstein II is only the latest experiment onstage and on film since it landed on Broadway in 1927. ''Show Boat'' is often regarded as the first dramatic Broadway musical, escalating the art form to more than just light operetta or a frivolous depiction of hokey Americana. Its themes of racial injustice and interracial marriage influenced musicals to come, particularly those on which Hammerstein collaborated with Richard Rodgers years later, including ''South Pacific'' and ''Carousel.'' 
 The Signature production combines elements from three versions of the show: the original, the 1946 Broadway revival (which the Signature's most resembles) and a 2005 version performed by the Bern Opera in Switzerland that included ''everything that had ever been written for 'Show Boat,' '' Mr. Schaeffer said. The Signature re-established the songs ''Queenie's Ballyhoo'' and the entire ''Mis'ry Comin' Aroun','' which had been cut from the original. Dialogue between the black couple Queenie and Joe (who sings ''Ol' Man River'') was returned, as were two scenes of dialogue between Cap'n Andy and Parthy (the proprietors of the Cotton Blossom riverboat).
 This is considerably different from the one mounted on Broadway in 1994. That hugely popular and expensive production, which began in Toronto in 1993 and toured the United States and abroad, is the version with which most contemporary theatergoers are familiar (in addition to the 1951 Technicolor film, which also took many liberties with the original). The Broadway revival tightened the book, added plenty of choreography by Susan Stroman, a song (''I Have the Room Above Her'') from the 1936 film, and gave the song ''Why Do I Love You'' to Parthy (originally a love duet for Gaylord and Magnolia, the romantic leads).
 For Julie Gilbert, grandniece of Ms. Ferber and trustee of the Edna Ferber estate (and named for a pivotal character, Julie, in ''Show Boat''), the Signature Theater version is a return to the show's roots -- and to her great-aunt's story.
 ''With other productions there are always so many bales of hay and extras coming to greet the boat,'' Ms. Gilbert said. ''There's plenty to dazzle the eye in those productions, but the Signature is taking another look at what makes it great instead of letting the dressing be the satisfaction. It's a more disturbing piece.''
 This approach ''Show Boat'' is potentially ideal for the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization, which is the licensing agent for the musical.
 '' 'Show Boat' has been called the most brilliant four-and-a-half-hour musical ever written,'' said Ted Chapin, president of the organization. ''The trouble is when you try to make it three hours or less. The idea of having a more manageable 'Show Boat' is attractive. But there are emotions in 'Show Boat' that must be attended to. One of the things you have to be careful of in small spaces is that the music is being honored. But we know the music is being taken care of with Jonathan Tunick reorchestrating.''
 The Signature's ''Show Boat'' has received mixed reviews, with some critics faulting the pared-down presentation and somewhat placid staging, given its lack of big musical numbers. This idea of minimizing shows, made almost trendy by the 2005 Broadway revival of ''Sweeney Todd,'' has its naysayers.
 ''We keep hearing that down-sized productions reveal a musical's core content, as if theatergoing were an anatomy lesson,'' said Ethan Mordden, author of several books on musical theater, including the 2008 biography ''Ziegfeld: The Man Who Invented Show Business.'' ''In fact these works were conceived to be big and busy, to fill the eye and ear. Without casting, design, choreography and orchestration on the grand scale, the shows aren't tightened but diminished.''
 Ms. Gilbert feels that ''Show Boat'' must be embraced in its newest incarnation.
 ''We don't want 'Show Boat' to be extinct. We don't want it to be a big old boat that floats out there in history,'' she said. ''It would be a shame if it were to die. The object of the exercise is how to find a supple way to present this and have theater companies and audiences be able to afford it.''
 This sense of scale -- and of tweaking what was originally there -- has always been part of the ''Show Boat'' mystique, beginning with its unlikely first producer.
 ''You have to realize that Florenz Ziegfeld produced the original 'Show Boat,' and Hammerstein feared that Ziegfeld would cut out all of the substance and leave in only the showgirls,'' Mr. Schaeffer said. ''The opening night curtain fell and nobody applauded. Ziegfeld thought he was doomed until the next day when the critics raved.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 22, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Dec. 10 with an article about a revival of the musical ''Show Boat,'' at the Signature Theater in Arlington, Va., misstated the year of one of the earlier productions shown. The photograph showed a scene from the original 1927 Broadway production, not the 1946 Broadway revival.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW PRODUCTION: The Signature Theater is offering a more intimate ''Show Boat,'' forgoing the large cast and recreated riverboat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT SUCHMAN)
1946 REVIVAL: The Signature version most resembles this production of the show, called Broadway's first dramatic musical. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WHITE STUDIO)
 1994 REVIVAL: The musical returned to Broadway in the 1990s with a tightened book and more focus on choreography. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); MUSIC (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); SHIPBUILDING (76%); OPERA (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); WRITERS (75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); PETITIONS (72%); RACE & RACISM (66%); MARRIAGE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERN, SWITZERLAND (71%) MISSISSIPPI RIVER (88%) SWITZERLAND (71%); UNITED STATES (71%)

TITLE: Show Boat (Play)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



280 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Europe Accepts Settlement Offer From Rambus

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
European Union regulators accepted on Wednesday a pledge by the chip maker Rambus to cut royalties worldwide on computer memory chip patents for five years to settle antitrust charges and avoid a possible fine. 
 Under the settlement, the chipmaker will not be found liable for any wrongdoing, the European Commission said in a statement.
 The commission, following complaints from Infineon Technologies of Germany and Hynix Semiconductor of South Korea, had charged the company in 2007 with abusing its dominant position by claiming unreasonable royalties.
 Rambus, based in Los Altos, Calif., made its offer to settle in June and this was market-tested by the commission, the executive body of the 27-country European Union.
 ''The commitments in their final form, as modified by Rambus, are adequate to meet the competition concerns expressed in the statement of objections,'' or charge sheet, the statement said.
 As part of the settlement, Rambus will cap royalties at 1.5 percent for the later generations of JEDEC DRAM (dynamic random-access memory) standards for five years.
 JEDEC is a standard-setting organization for the chip-making industry. JEDEC-compliant DRAMs represent around 95 percent of the market and are used in virtually all personal computers. 
 ''An effective standard-setting process should take place in a non-discriminatory, open and transparent way to ensure competition on the merits and to allow consumers to benefit from technical development and innovation,'' the competition commissioner, Neelie Kroes, said. ''Abusive practices in standard-setting can harm innovation and lead to higher prices for companies and consumers. For its part, the commission will vigorously enforce the competition rules in this area,'' she added in the statement.
 The commission said the five-year pledge would ensure the decision covered any claims of Rambus based on patents, and patent applications, dating back to when it was a JEDEC member.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEMORY CHIPS (91%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PATENTS (89%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (87%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (79%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (71%); TEST MARKETING (70%)

COMPANY: RAMBUS INC (90%); SK HYNIX INC (90%); INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); JEDEC (90%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: RMBS (NASDAQ) (90%); HY9H (FRA) (90%); 000660 (KSE) (90%); IFX (FRA) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (90%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (90%)

PERSON: NEELIE KROES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (59%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



281 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; CRITICAL SHOPPER COSTCO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: All the Tube Socks You'll Need, Forever

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
SOMEWHERE in my DNA, and presumably in that of a certain part of the adult population of Manhattan, lurks a hoarder gene. This gene marks us as part of a minority that finds nothing at all strange in the act of stockpiling cleaning supplies, say, or else salted cashews or Bayer aspirin in institutional quantities. 
 I recognize that not everyone is as bewitched as I am by a four-pack of Fantastik. The only person I ever met who got a bigger charge than I do out of buying Bounty paper towels in the 12-roll size is a man I once interviewed who ran private sex parties from an East Village loft. When a Kmart opened on Astor Place, this man was close to ecstatic, although I suppose he was ecstatic a lot of the time. 
 Presumably he would be even more charged up to learn that Manhattan's first ever Costco wholesale club opened last month in East Harlem, thus making our island officially a suburb of Hicksville. 
 As it happens, there was, among the thousands of constantly changing items available last week at Costco, a display of lubricated Trojan condoms in a 40-unit package ($9.99). And so, for all I know, that sex-club guy has switched careers and is now doing target marketing for big-box chains. 
 Costco, as most of us are already aware, is a wholesale-warehouse club chain, among the 10 largest retailers in the country and the world. The apparent contradiction in a business being termed simultaneously a wholesale club and a mass retailer is at the heart of the incredible success Costco has enjoyed since its founding in 1983. There are now more than 560 Costco locations in the United States, and what all of them provide is the benefit of buying Sony Bravias, Ecko sweatshirts, Bachman pretzels, Pepperidge Farm Goldfish, Spam and Vienna sausages, Uggs and vacuum-packed snack trays priced affordably because they are acquired in bulk. 
 Limited variety and high volume equal savings, the theory goes, and the operative delusion is that a consumer is paying wholesale for what are in fact retail goods exposed to supersizing gamma rays. 
 Scale is the key at Costco, where the shopping carts are the size of a Mini Cooper; where butter is sold in four-pound bricks ($6.59); and where pies (pumpkin, $5.99; apple, $8.99) are the diameter of cartwheels and come in plastic tubs the size of a kiddie pool. A box of Kellogg's Raisin Bran ($6.89 for 76.5 ounces) is so enormous that, with a little ingenuity, one could add a handle to the empty box and convert it to a carry-on bag. You could, that is, if you think it would fit in the overhead bin. 
 There is an annual fee for induction into the wonderful world of savings and 50-pound bags of rice, a fact I learned when I joined a long line stretching along 117th Street on opening day in mid-November. Laboriously inching along behind an Ellis Island array of New Yorkers yearning to be free of supermarket gouging, I thought that perhaps every single person who had waited the 15 years it took the developer David Blumenfeld to raze the old Washburn Wire factory and replace it with a big-box store was on hand. Still, it was a glorious day for what David Dinkins used to call the gorgeous mosaic. And the palpable excitement on line made it hard to remember why Mr. Blumenfeld's plan had ever caused so much stir. 
 Two decades ago both the local community board and Jane Jacobs adherents like me had all griped in chorus that the last thing the city needed was a $500 million, 485,000-square-foot shopping complex (Target, Best Buy and Marshalls will join Costco next spring). Weren't there already plenty of mom-and-pop stores around to rip off New Yorkers for a gallon of milk? 
 Then the Giuliani years happened, and the early Bloomberg ones and pseudo-malls popped up everywhere and major avenues were converted into picnic grounds and the parks became so much surplus square footage to be leased to dreadful seasonal crafts fairs and Times Square was finally scoured of the final vestiges of delirious sleaze and my city, to paraphrase Chrissie Hynde, was finally gone. 
 In the name of bulk buying in a recession-era economy, I accept this. Or I did that day as harried but eager Costco employees working the line instructed me that, by doubling the basic membership charge of $50, I could achieve elite status and thus receive regular mailers containing coupons for extra savings and an elaborately calculated refund at the end of the year. 
 This might make sense if I were Octomom and really needed Huggies in the 500-count box. But I know my limits, and that is crucial when you shop at Costco. Otherwise you may find that, in no time at all, your automobile-size cart is filled with stuff that would barely fit in the automobile it turns out you do not own. 
 I BOUGHT two heavyweight plastic Costco shopping bags suitable for lugging boulders, and was careful to fill them with no more cleaning supplies and Kleenex products than could be hoisted home on the Lexington Avenue bus. Costco, it probably goes without saying, does not deliver (although it does maintain a contract with Discovery cabs, whose drivers meet laden shoppers at the parking garage). 
 Unlike many of my fellow shoppers that day, I forgot to bring a calculator. Unlike Asta Hansen, a shopper whose apartment in upper Manhattan is equidistant from the new East Harlem Costco and the one where she usually shops across the bridge in New Jersey, I had no baseline for price comparisons. (''Nuts are always a bargain,'' Ms. Hansen told me. ''Nuts and sweat socks.'') 
 Still, by my estimate, and at an ordinary rate of consumption, the supply of Soft Scrub With Bleach Cleanser (four for $9.99) I picked up should carry me through to the end of my days. 
 COSTCO
 517 East 117th Street; (212) 896-5873.
 BIG BOX Costco may not be the first, but it is the biggest big-box store in Manhattan. Next spring, when additional tenants like Target and Marshalls open in the mammoth new East Harlem building, it will be the definitive event in the malling of Manhattan.
 BIG CHEESE There are savings across the range of consumer goods, Burberry bags to bananas. The best may be on products packaged under the company's Kirkland label: 2.5 pounds of cashews, for instance, cost $12.49; at a grocery near me, an eight-ounce tub costs $10. Costco's cheese and meat selections, too, are notably good. And because you can't walk 20 feet without bumping into a food demonstrator offering free samples, you run no risk of starving a you shop.
 BIG LETDOWN Depending on one's view of tube socks and sweat pants (Timberland fleece sweatshirt, $29.99), apparel can be considered the weak link in Costco's impressive supply chain. Some items are downright scary. On a hang tag attached to a Jona Michelle holiday dress for girls, with a black satin bodice and a metallic miniskirt overlaid with sequins and embroidered vines, are these words: ''I'm a Tea Dress.'' That is useful to know if you happen to be planning a holiday tea with the ladies from an Albanian bordello. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (91%); WHOLESALERS (89%); RETAILERS (86%); SNACK FOODS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (65%)

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (95%); KELLOGG CO (51%)

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (95%); K (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (95%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (51%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (51%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



282 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Fox Business Network) STOSSELJohn Stossel, above, formerly of ABC's ''20/20,'' makes the move to cable with a weekly news program focusing on issues like global warming, health care, civil liberties, Social Security and free trade. A rotating panel of experts will weigh in, and so will the studio audience. Mr. Stossel will also make occasional appearances on Fox News Channel.
 8 P.M. (13) THE NATIONAL CHRISTMAS TREE LIGHTING 2009President Obama; his wife, Michelle; and their daughters, Malia and Sasha, flip the switch on the 40-foot Colorado blue spruce -- fitted with ecologically sound LED lights and ornaments -- at President's Park in Washington. Sheryl Crow, Common and Jordin Sparks perform at the ceremony, taped on Dec. 3. 
 8 P.M. (Animal Planet) EGYPT'S ANIMAL MUMMIES Scientists try to unravel the mystery of how and why ancient Egyptians preserved their animals -- from baboons and bulls to cats and crocodiles -- the same way they did their kings.
 8 P.M. (BBC America) PEDIGREE DOGS EXPOSED How much are the medical bills of that doggie in the window? This report investigates breeding practices that are said to compromise the health of purebred dogs by increasing the level of inherited disease.
 8 P.M. (MyNetworkTV) THE 2009 HOLLYWOOD CHRISTMAS PARADE Susan Lucci, this year's grand marshal, leads the parade on a U-shaped route along Orange Drive, Vine Street and Sunset Boulevard. Participants include Antonio Sabato Jr., Lorenzo Lamas, Lesley-Anne Down, Louis Gossett Jr., Lee Majors, Brian McKnight, War and the Shawnee Mission Northwest Marching Cougar Pride from Shawnee, Kan.
 8 P.M. (HGTV) MY FIRST PLACE In this 11th-season finale, a couple intent on buying a first home in Manville, N.J., find their dream of ownership disintegrating. Then they spy the perfect home -- but what about all that water in the basement?
 8 P.M. (Science) SCIENCE OF THE MOVIES In ''The Magical World of George Lucas,'' Nar Williams tours the Industrial Light & Magic studios for a demonstration of the special-effects wizardry behind films like ''Star Wars,'' ''E.T.,'' ''The Terminator'' and ''Pirates of the Caribbean.''
 8 P.M. (Fox) BONES Brennan (Emily Deschanel, left) and Booth (David Boreanaz) investigate a bank robbery in which a man in a Santa Claus suit blew himself up. Meanwhile Brennan's father (Max Keenan) asks her to spend the holidays with him and a cousin (Ms. Deschanel's real-life sister, Zooey). 
 8:30 P.M. (TV5Monde) UNE CHANSON DANS LA TETE (2007) Bruno Caprice (Patrick Chesnais) was a one-hit wonder back in the '70s with his song ''Quand Tu T'en Vas.'' Now he's working in oblivion as a receptionist in a Paris hotel and suffering from the blues after a failed relationship. But then a wealthy industrialist asks him to sing for his wife's birthday in Beirut, where Bruno is still something of a celebrity. And suddenly, life is good. In French, with subtitles. 
 8:30 P.M. (NBC) PARKS AND RECREATION Leslie (Amy Poehler) puts her special touch on the Pawnee Winter Wonderland Festival but has to duck the press when a meeting with a disgraced councilman lands her in the middle of a sex scandal. In ''The Office,'' at 9, Michael (Steve Carell) loses it when Jim (John Krasinksi) allows Phyllis (Phyllis Smith) to be Santa at the office Christmas party.
 9 P.M. (CNBC) THE BUBBLE DECADE David Faber reports on three economic bubbles that defined the decade -- technology, real estate and credit -- through interviews with Internet entrepreneurs, real estate speculators and corporate takeover specialists. He also moderates two panels of key figures in some of the era's biggest financial stories.
 9:30 P.M. (NBC) 30 ROCK Jack (Alec Baldwin) dabbles in a new social networking site and is unexpectedly linked to a high school crush (Julianne Moore). Kenneth (Jack McBrayer) meets resistance when he tries to organize a Secret Santa Fun Swap. Jenna (Jane Krakowski) balks at sharing the limelight in her annual Christmas solo. And Liz (Tina Fey) frets about buying a gift that's good enough for Jack.
 10 P.M. (FX) IT'S ALWAYS SUNNY IN PHILADELPHIA Season 5 ends with the gang re-entering the Flipadephia, a flip-cup tournament, after being banned for 10 years. But it may be 10 years too late.
 11 P.M. (13) CHARLIE ROSEMr. Rose interviews Cate Blanchett and Liv Ullmann, the star and the director of ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 22, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An entry in the ''What's on Today'' television highlights on Dec. 10 misstated the name of the actor who plays Temperance Brennan's father on the Fox show ''Bones.'' He is Ryan O'Neal -- not Max Keenan, which is the name of the character Mr. O'Neal plays. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); PARADES & MARCHES (86%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); DOGS (77%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (69%); FILM (69%); SPECIAL EFFECTS (69%); CATS (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (95%); TV5 MONDE SA (57%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (95%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE LUCAS (56%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



283 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 CLIMATE SKEPTICS DESCEND
 On Copenhagen
 The small group of climate skeptics who met inside a stuffy second-floor gallery in Copenhagen displayed at least as much passion for their cause as the environmental activists who have flocked to Copenhagen to push for action on global warming. PAGE A6
 WARNING TO U.N. IN CONGO 
 According to documents, United Nations peacekeeping officials were explicitly warned months ago by their advisers not to participate in combat operations with the Congolese Army if there was a risk that Congolese soldiers might abuse human rights. But the mission went forward -- and the abuses took place as feared. PAGE A6
 National
 ECONOMIC REASONS FOUND 
 For College Dropouts
 Most people drop out of college because they have trouble going to school while working to support themselves, according to a report released Wednesday by Public Agenda, a nonpartisan research group. PAGE A23
 IMPEACHMENT REJECTED 
 A South Carolina legislative subcommittee decided not to recommend the impeachment of Gov. Mark Sanford, saying that the governor's secret trip to Argentina and extramarital affair did not meet the state constitutional standard of ''serious crimes or serious misconduct.'' PAGE A24
 NARROW VICTORY IN ATLANTA
 Kasim Reed, a lawyer and former state legislator, was elected mayor of Atlanta by a margin of 714 votes, according to a recount of last week's vote. PAGE A24
 New Illinois Law on Donations A26
 New York
 NEW JERSEY SENATE CANCELS
 Vote on Gay Marriage 
 The battle over a bill that would legalize gay marriage in New Jersey shifted locations unexpectedly when sponsors of the legislation canceled a vote scheduled Thursday in the state Senate, where the measure appeared headed for defeat. PAGE A32 
 SINGING WALL STREET'S PRAISES
 Gov. David A. Paterson went to Wall Street to encourage investment bankers and traders to promote the critical role they have played in the city's economy and would play in an economic rebound. PAGE A32
 Business
 HIDING A.I.G. CONNECTION
 Bolsters Subsidiaries
 Months after dropping the telltale ''A.I.G.'' from its sales brochures, the company is again the top seller of fixed annuities to bank customers. But some competitors and consumer advocates are questioning A.I.G.'s comeback, saying its ability to keep drawing federal money is giving it an unfair advantage. PAGE B1
 CITIGROUP RACES TO REPAY AID
 A year after accepting two federal bailouts, Citigroup is racing to raise billions of dollars in the stock market to repay its federal aid, a crucial step toward freeing itself from Washington's grip. PAGE B1
 A TESTY EXCHANGE OVER JOBS
 President Obama and Congressional Republican leaders had an occasionally testy discussion at the White House when they met to discuss how to create more jobs. PAGE B1
 DISSENT OVER BANK RULES
 As the House took up a sweeping measure that would put new controls on businesses and financial institutions, a bloc of business-oriented Democrats threatened to withhold support because of their concerns about its impact on financial institutions. PAGE B4
 Arts
 BUILDING SCHOOLS
 In Devastated Lands
 While Greg Mortenson's ''Three Cups of Tea'' described how he stumbled into his life's work, which began as the building of schools for girls in remote parts of Pakistan, his latest effort, ''Stones Into Schools'' takes him into hazier geographical realms. Review by Janet Maslin. PAGE C1
 FOLLOWING A BIG DRAW
 James Gandolfini has moved on from Yasmina Reza's Tony-winning play ''God of Carnage,'' along with the rest of the original cast of, leaving Ken Stott with the unenviable task of replacing the show's marquee draw. Review by Charles Isherwood. PAGE C1
 Sports
 WEB SITE FOR WOODS
 Is Drawing Comments
 In the nearly two weeks since Tiger Woods became tabloid food, his personal Web site has turned into a kind of town hall meeting on his reported extramarital behavior. PAGE B13
 REDISTRIBUTING GOLD MEDALS
 The International Olympic Committee redistributed the medals won by the disgraced sprinter Marion Jones at the 2000 Olympics, but it refused to award her gold medal in the 100 meters to Katerina Thanou of Greece, who was barred from the 2004 Games because of a missed drug test. PAGE B17
 Home
 RENOVATING A RENTAL 
 As if It Were Their Own
 Todd and Marlene Capron of Brooklyn struck a deal with their landlord which not only earned them permission to renovate the apartment according to their taste, but also negotiated a long-term lease and a significant rent reduction. PAGE D1
 Thursday Styles
 HOW NOT TO SUCCEED 
 In Washington
 By crashing a White House state dinner, Michaele and Tareq Salahi trampled countless protocols that are the social, business and networking bedrock of official Washington. And it looks like the town will be spluttering about it for quite some time. PAGE E1
 BENEFITS OF LATE EXERCISE
 A small group of researchers has studied the question of exercise performance and time of day, even doing studies of heart rates. And not only are performances better in the late afternoon and early evening, but heart rates are also higher for the same effort. Gina Kolata, Personal Best. PAGE E1
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A35

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (84%); PEACEKEEPING (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ARMIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); MISCONDUCT (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); MARRIAGE (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); LEGISLATION (70%); MARRIAGE LAW (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (66%); CONSUMER LAW (66%); MAYORS (65%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (64%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (57%); GOVERNORS (53%); ANNUITIES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (53%); C (BMV) (53%); 8710 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (52%); DAVID PATERSON (51%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



284 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2528 words

HEADLINE: Is It Art or Their Shoes?

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
AN empty pizza box was propped against a black fiberglass urn in the hallway outside Three's Company, a gallery that is also the living room of Alex Gartenfeld and Piper Marshall, roommates in a tiny tenement walkup in Chinatown. 
 ''That's what can happen to the art after a show,'' said Mr. Gartenfeld, indicating the urn, which he explained had been part of an installation last spring by AIDS-3D, a Berlin-based duo who were in the ''Younger Than Jesus'' show at the New Museum. That the urn was still there was a source of annoyance to both Mr. Gartenfeld and his roommate, he said. ''We just don't have the room.'' 
 It was noon on a recent Saturday, and Mr. Gartenfeld, 23, a slight young man who favors owlish glasses and black-and-white clothing, had just awakened, brushed his teeth in the kitchen sink and opened the gallery for business. Et voila: There were pieces by Asher Penn, who prints the words ''KATE MOSS RORSHACH'' over and over on white tape and then makes collages from the tape, set out on a shelf that ringed the narrow living room. A projector on a table was loaded with a film by another artist, Tobias Kaspar, apparently featuring a close-up of hands flipping through a fanzine devoted to Leonardo DiCaprio. But because Mr. Gartenfeld does not know how to work the projector -- that's Ms. Marshall's talent and she was at work -- this reporter had to imagine it.
 But she got the picture. Fastidious obsession, with both making stuff and celebrity culture, was the theme of the current show, which is open by appointment and up indefinitely. 
 Also on view: a sofa, a lamp and a few molded plastic chairs, one with a beer can on its seat. Art?
 ''Not art,'' said Mr. Gartenfeld, whisking the can away.
 In a home gallery, sometimes it's hard to tell.
 Mr. Gartenfeld and Ms. Marshall, both of whom have day jobs in the art world (he's the online editor at Interview and Art in America; she's the assistant curator at the Swiss Institute), are part of a new wave of gallerists who for a grab-bag of reasons -- economic, philosophical and purely pragmatic -- are turning their homes into art galleries. 
 Some are creating roving galleries, this year's version of the ''Happening'' for the post-grad set, or one-night events in other people's homes, like the Apartment Show or Parlour, which are put together by young artists or curators, and romp from living room to living room and neighborhood to neighborhood like punk bands ''touring'' suburban basements. 
 Even at the high end, established dealers like the glamorous Palm Beach, Fla., gallerist Sarah Gavlak are opening their homes: through Dec. 19, Ms. Gavlak's one-bedroom pied-a-terre, in a prim '60s white brick building on 57th Street, is given over to the paintings of Christopher Milne, an artist who creates stylized images inspired by women's magazines of the ''Mad Men'' era. 
 Like 17th-century salonistes, home gallerists use the intimacy of their homes -- or other people's -- to incite discussion and forge a deeper connection to the art.
 ''You can get comfortable in someone's home,'' said Leslie Rosa-Stumpf, an independent curator who is half of Parlour, a nomadic gallery that will appear this Saturday in a town house in Bushwick, Brooklyn. ''It's not a white room with no furniture. People sit on the couch, have a drink, stay for hours and really take it all in.''
 While noting that apartment shows do not exactly represent a new format, David Rimanelli, a longtime contributor to Artforum who teaches criticism and art history at New York University, described them as ''the ultimate destination galleries.''
 AT the opening for Mr. Milne's show last month, Ms. Gavlak, 40, wore a scarlet shift with a nipped-in waist and plunging decolletage, neatly matching Mr. Milne's idealized vision of womanhood. In her bedroom, which is open to gallery goers, her bed wore ivory satin, and a Hollywood Regency-style acrylic vanity table, a gift from Beth Rudin DeWoody, the collector, displayed carefully curated personal effects: perfume bottles, a clutch of embroidered handkerchiefs, roses in a vase. Draped above was a knitted banner by the artist Lisa Anne Auerbach that read ''Vive La Revolution d'amour.'' 
 ''I'm really interested in the history of the boudoir and what went on there,'' Ms. Gavlak said. ''It's fun to watch people when they come into the bedroom. Some are really uncomfortable and just walk out. Others flop down on the bed and hang out for a while. If you look at the apartment as a whole, everything is an aesthetic design in a way, including me, and each thing informs the other things.'' 
 Ms. Gavlak's apartment began its gallery career by accident. After showing photographs by Ms. Auerbach during Art Basel Miami Beach two years ago, Ms. Gavlak brought the photos to New York, where she spends half the year, and gave a party for Ms. Auerbach in the apartment.
 ''People were like, 'When's the next show?' '' she said. ''Or they said, 'It looks like a gallery in here, do you really live here? Where's all your stuff?' '' 
 It is stunningly spare. Ms. Gavlak's personal effects are in one of two walk-in closets; artwork is in the other. Like a good saloniste, she eats breakfast on a tray in bed and then slides it underneath the dust ruffle. Her kitchen is as clean and uncluttered as that of a model apartment in a new condominium. (Home gallerists as a whole are not given to the display of random tchotchkes; further, they know how to hide their hair brushes and the Verizon bill.)
 Relations with artists can be very cozy. When she was courting Mr. Milne, whose work she had seen at a collector's home in Palm Beach, and arranging for a studio visit on the phone one day, she and Mr. Milne realized they lived in the same building.
 ''We were both in our apartments when I phoned, and when we figured it out, he said, 'Omigosh, I'm coming downstairs right now,' '' Ms. Gavlak said. 
 Perhaps the most famously intimate home gallery is Gracie Mansion's bathroom, otherwise known as the ''Loo Division.'' As Ms. Mansion, an impresario of the '80s-era East Village art scene, recalled recently, it was the spring of 1982, and she came up with the idea of doing a show -- or having a party, really -- with the proceeds of her tax refund.
 Ms. Mansion, now a private art adviser and a modern and contemporary specialist for artnet's online auctions, was making art and living in a fifth-floor walkup on East Ninth Street. It was the kind of apartment that had a bathtub in the kitchen and a toilet in a closet, the latter ''an intimate setting,'' she realized, uniquely positioned ''for one-at-a-time viewing.'' 
 She had been given a few photographs by her friend Tim Greathouse -- who, like so many of her peers, has since died of AIDS -- and had hung them inside the bathroom. ''While contemplating them one day,'' Ms. Mansion said, ''I came up with the idea of giving him a show in there.'' 
 The arts culture that erupted in Ms. Mansion's neighborhood around that time was at a literal and emotional distance from chilly SoHo and glitzy 57th Street: it was, in the beginning anyway, a community by and for artists, she stressed. ''These were not market-driven events,'' she said. 
 Today, suggested Jed Perl, the art critic for the New Republic and author of ''New Art City,'' a social history of Manhattan's '50s-era art scene, when art is atomized all over town and across the East River, a home gallery is ''maybe just part of a broader mix-it-up mentality: i.e., an industrial loft can be a home, a home can be a gallery, et cetera.'' 
 ''Is there a history to it?'' he continued. ''I'm not sure. My impression of many of the hostess/salon-running/gallerist types -- from Peggy Guggenheim to Holly Solomon -- is that they made a fairly clear distinction between home and gallery. Certainly in the secondary market there has always been a strong tradition of people who deal out of their homes, where 'everything' is for sale: the Tiffany lamp, the Navajo rug, the Guercino drawing.
 ''As for the East Village-to-today galleries in the home, maybe in spirit it's related to Happenings and so forth. But isn't the truth that as soon as the cash flow is strong enough, people prefer to move the business to a separate location? So it's also -- let's face it -- a style born of necessity?''
 True, yet a low overhead, as some gallerists point out, means you can support and show artists whose work is not market-oriented.
 BERNARD LEIBOV was itching for a life change when he was downsized as managing director of a design studio last January. A few years earlier, Mr. Leibov, an investment banker turned brand strategist who is now 46, had attended a Landmark Education workshop -- a self-actualizing program that owes a lot to the '70s-era est movement -- eager to shake a corporate career and start one in the arts. He began curating shows featuring artists from his native South Africa. He also made a pilgrimage to Joshua Tree, the art world's alternative universe in the California desert, which inspired him to make his own work.
 Back in New York, ''my relationship with my apartment had grown stale,'' Mr. Leibov said of the Printing House loft he has lived in for 12 years. ''I had fallen out of love with it, it didn't inspire me anymore.''
 The day he was laid off, he said, he felt a kind of release. ''I was like, O.K., now I know what I'm doing,'' which was to bring a larger audience to the Joshua Tree community he'd become a part of.
 In March, he had his first home show, of the work of the Joshua Tree artist John Luckett, who makes abstract mixed-media pieces. Mr. Leibov's current show, his fourth, is called ''Satellite of Love'' and features armfuls of glowing cast-glass sex toys in rainbow colors tucked into strappy handbags, also made of cast-glass, which makes an exciting backdrop for his morning coffee. The show, up through Dec. 19, is the work of another Joshua Tree resident, Randy Polumbo.
 Mr. Leibov's relationship with his apartment has been similarly rejuvenated. ''I'd been looking for ways to pep it up,'' he said. ''I had felt a lack of energy when I came home. Now, it's fantastic. I get to live like a big-time collector.''
 ON the Sunday before Thanksgiving, Jill Greenwood, 26, an architectural designer, lent the large railroad apartment in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, she was about to vacate to the Apartment Show organizers, Joshua Smith and Denise Kupferschmidt, who are friends of friends. Ms. Greenwood had already half-decamped, but there was still a lot of her stuff there, including a pile of shoes in a corner, when the show opened that night. 
 Schooled in the viewing of conceptual art, some attendees were puzzled, Ms. Greenwood said. ''People definitely confused my shoes for artwork, and thought I'd messed up the art when I changed out of my flats to heels for the show.''
 The work of six artists was on view, and there were 150 or so guests at the opening, the 12th Apartment Show organized by Mr. Kupferschmidt and Mr. Smith, both of whom are artists and were inspired, they said, to show the work of their peers to their peers.
 When they began last year, Mr. Smith said: ''I felt like everyone was throwing around the word 'context' all the time, meaning they all wanted their work to be shown 'in the proper context,' typically code for a well-branded institutional space. This is a way to get people to loosen up a little and just hang out and relax.''
 Since their first show last January, at another friend's apartment in Greenpoint, they have never wanted for a space, for artists to show or for guests, whom they found by drawing from the mailing lists of the galleries where they worked and by tapping the Facebook ''friends'' of Jerry Saltz, the art critic at New York magazine.
 ''He has like 3,000 friends,'' Mr. Smith said. (Actually, as of this week he had 4,230.) 
 As most of the apartments donated are rentals, given at the end of a lease, Ms. Kupferschmidt said: ''Often, we're the last people in them. We clean up after the party, but it's like we're cleaning up after them, too. It's like the apartment was ours and we're leaving it forever.''
 NINE years ago, Brookie Maxwell, an artist, was running a nonprofit arts group for at-risk inner-city children, but wanted a job that would allow her to be a work-at-home mother to her son, Ellis, who was then 4. She bought a loft on West 17th Street, put her living quarters in the back, and created a wide-open central space ringed with canvas on three sides. Ms. Maxwell, who is 53 and the daughter of the legendary New Yorker editor William Maxwell, has been showing art in all media there ever since.
 The other day, a video by Zefrey Throwell was playing on one canvas wall -- an extremely upsetting film depicting the artist's girlfriend as she tries (and succeeds) to make herself faint by hyperventilating. Happily, the inevitable doesn't take too long; afterward, as this reporter recovered, Ms. Maxwell pulled back the canvas to show Ellis's basketball hoop. ''It's good when I have a video show,'' she said, ''because then he and his friends can play basketball.''
 Indeed, Ellis and his friends have accrued many perks from Gallery 138, as it's known. Five years ago, for a show commemorating Brown v. Board of Education, the artist Satch Hoyt was working on a life-size cast-sugar bust of Justice Thurgood Marshall. Trying to get it just right, he made several tests during the course of a week, all of which were stored in the fridge (the kitchen is hidden behind another curtain).
 ''Ellis's friends would come over and ask, 'Can I lick Thurgood Marshall's face again?' '' Ms. Maxwell said.
 Most gallery goers don't realize that Gallery 138 is also a home until they use the bathroom, at which point human nature asserts itself and they start to snoop. 
 ''I can always hear them pull the shower curtain back,'' Ms. Maxwell said. ''So I put something in there for them to see.''
 It's not bath toys. Nosy art hounds will discover the pelvis bone of some animal topped with a toy alligator. No one has ever commented, she said. 
 Remember to Knock First: The Apartment Show, information at apartmentshow. net. Through Dec. 24, the Apartment Show is sponsoring Happy House, artists' editions for sale at Printed Matter, 195 10th Avenue (22nd Street), (212) 925-0325, printedmatter.org. BoxoFFICE, 421 Hudson Street, No. 701 (Leroy Street), (917) 669-6098, boxofficeprojects. com. ''Satellite of Love,'' objects by Randy Polumbo, is open through Dec. 19 (Friday and Saturday, noon to 6 p.m., or by appointment). Gallery 138, 138 West 17th Street (between Sixth and Seventh Avenues), (212) 633-0324, gallery138.com. Video work by Z Collective and Zefrey Throwell is up through Dec. 12 (by appointment). Gavlak New York, (561) 833-0583, gavlakgallery. com. ''Floral Street,'' work by Christopher Milne, is up through Dec. 19 (by appointment). Parlour, information at parlourdoor.com. Parlour No. 11, ''When All Through the House,'' opens Dec. 12 in Bushwick, Brooklyn. Three's Company, information at threescompany. tv.com. Work by Asher Penn and Tobias Kaspar now on view (by appointment). (D6) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ART NESTS: Sarah Gavlak, above, Alex Gartenfeld and Piper Marshall, left, and Bernard Leibov, far left, have made art galleries out of their apartments. Like 17th century salonistes, they aim to spur discussion and create a deeper connection to the artwork. (D1)
BEYOND THE BOUDOIR: In Sarah Gavlak's one-bedroom apartment, her own things are as carefully curated as the work she shows, like the paintings of Christopher Milne, which evoke idealized women of the ''Mad Men'' era. Those pink plastic drawers, right, are on casters, and roll away when guests appear. (D6)
THE AMBASSADOR: Bernard Leibov's idea for his home gallery, BoxoFFICE, was to show artwork that isn't necessarily market oriented, like cast-glass sex toys and nipples by Randy Polumbo, below.
THE WHITE CUBE: Brookie Maxwell's loft is swathed in canvas, which provides a nice screen for video work and also hides domestic details. Ms. Maxwell shows work in all mediums, but a video show allows her son, Ellis, and his friends, right, to spread out in the empty gallery space.
THE ALTERNATIVES: Piper Marshall, far left, and Alex Gartenfeld, above, show the work of emerging artists like Asher Penn, whose collages are set out in their living room.
 THE NOMADS: Denise Kupferschmidt and Joshua Smith, far left center and bottom, organize the Apartment Show, a gallery that appears in other people's homes. Their last show was in Jill Greenwood's apartment, above, where some guests mistook her shoes, left, for artwork. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (70%); CELEBRITIES (65%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (50%)

PERSON: KATE MOSS (50%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



285 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; UNEASY ENGAGEMENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: China's Growing Economic Power Is Unsettling the Neighbors

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: PASARKEMIS, Indonesia 

 BODY:
In the Dickensian depths of the Dunia Metal Works here, all is cacophony: the bam bam bam of grease-drenched punches; the rhythmic clank of unspooling steel wire; the storm and stress of glinting, freshly minted nails cascading onto a broad metal table for boxing.
 But for all the industrial din, Dunia is undergoing a painful slump. Today it runs at 40 percent of its capacity, its domestic nail business imperiled -- and its exports wiped out -- by cheaper Chinese alternatives.
 ''We have been competing with the Japanese and the Koreans,'' said Juniarto Suhandinata, the factory's director. ''But the Chinese -- no chance.'' 
 The Chinese are tough competitors, and Dunia is hardly the first to find out. But Mr. Suhandinata's lament speaks to something different: a sense of disquiet, even in developing Asian nations in Beijing's orbit, over the implications of China's swift, seemingly boundless economic growth. 
 China has long claimed to be just another developing nation, even as its economic power far outstripped that of any other emerging country.
 Now, it is finding it harder to cast itself as a friendly alternative to an imperious American superpower. For many in Asia, it is the new colossus.
 ''China 10 years ago is totally different with China now,'' said Ansari Bukhari, who oversees metals, machinery and other crucial sectors for Indonesia's Ministry of Industry. ''They are stronger and bigger than other countries. Why do we have to give them preference?''
 To varying degrees, others are voicing the same complaint. Take the 10 Southeast Asian nations in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, known as Asean, a regional economic bloc representing about 600 million people. Through September, they ran up a collective $74 billion trade deficit with China. That is a sharp reversal of the surplus those nations enjoyed in most recent years, and it is prompting some rethinking of the conventional wisdom that China's rise is a windfall for the whole neighborhood.
 Vietnam just devalued its currency by 5 percent, to keep it competitive with China. In Thailand, manufacturers are grousing openly about their inability to match Chinese prices. India has filed a sheaf of unfair-trade complaints against China this year covering everything from I-beams to coated paper. 
 The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, the biggest regional group, last month urged the adoption of ''market-oriented exchange rates'' for Asian currencies without mentioning -- or needing to mention -- China's currency, which many economists say China keeps artificially undervalued to promote its own exports.
 In Southeast Asia, Indonesia is having second thoughts about a free-trade pact China negotiated with the six core Asean nations.
 Under strong pressure from industries as varied as steel and motorbike makers, the Trade Ministry said last week that it would seek to renegotiate some of the 350-odd tariff reductions that were envisioned in the first year of the accord, set to take effect in January.
 Jong-Wha Lee, the chief economist for the Asian Development Bank, noted that Japan and South Korea were also seen as juggernauts -- and were criticized -- when their state-backed industries rapidly increased exports. But the challenge from China seems different.
 ''Not just the size, but the speed of China's emerging power is really unprecedented in the region,'' Mr. Lee said. ''So it creates a lot of issues -- not just trade and exchange-rate policies. But in the future, what will be the role of China?''
 China has taken some steps to mollify complainers. In April, it proposed a $10 billion investment fund to help build badly needed roads, railways and ports in Southeast Asia, and a $15 billion fund to give Asian nations low-interest development loans. 
 But it has so far done little to address regional and global unease over the value of its currency, the renminbi. Because the currency is lashed by effective government fiat to the sinking American dollar, China's exports have become significantly cheaper in countries whose own currencies have not compensated for the dollar's recent fall.
 In Asia, the renminbi is doubly significant. During the 1997 Asian economic crisis, the values of many regional currencies collapsed, making their goods cheap to foreign buyers. The Chinese then won the gratitude of their neighbors -- and cast their country as a responsible power -- by keeping the renminbi's value fixed. That prevented a competitive spiral of devaluations that many economists feared might make the crisis much worse.
 The latest financial crisis tells a different story: China's exchange rate controls are cited as a leading cause of huge global imbalances that contributed to the collapse of 2008.
 This time, China has resisted pressure to untie the renminbi from the dollar and let it rise. And its neighbors' exports have suffered as a result.
 Michael Pettis, an economist and scholar with the China program of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, argues that China can no longer pursue the same export-driven development model at a time when Western consumers no longer are able to gobble up whatever it and other Asian manufacturers produce.
 Until 2008, Mr. Pettis said, ''most of these countries ran trade surpluses, and the U.S. was the countervailing trade deficit.'' 
 ''The entire model depended on the ability of an external agent -- the United States -- to absorb trade deficits,'' he added.
 Indonesia is especially vulnerable to the shift. It is the most populous and arguably the least economically advanced nation among the onetime Asian Tigers, and perhaps the least able to accommodate itself to a new regional order dominated by China. 
 Didik J. Rachbini, a professor and the founder of an economic research institute here, said that in the past four years, Indonesia had swung from more or less parity in bilateral trade to a deficit equal to one-third of its annual exports to China -- and rising. 
 The lowly nail is one focus of tension. Making nails is not complicated: start with a bale of steel wire, shave it down to the proper diameter, then feed it into a punch that shapes the nail, cuts it and spits it into a bin. Labor and machinery account for 10 or 15 percent of the cost of a nail. The rest is the cost of the wire.
 And that is Indonesia's problem.
 ''Many Chinese steel factories have overcapacity, so they sell their wire very cheap,'' said Ario N. Setiantoro, who leads the Indonesia Nail and Wire Factory Association. ''Chinese nails enter the market here at about the same price as our wire.''
 He is right. Most analysts say China has too many steel mills. Its excess steelmaking capacity equals the entire annual production of the world's No. 2 steelmaker, Japan. Every Chinese province wants a steel industry, because it conveys prestige, creates jobs and attracts other business. 
 Beyond supply, Chinese state-run banks support industry with construction loans so cheap that credit can be almost free, holding down operating costs. China's vast purchases of iron ore lock in volume discounts that Indonesia's small steelmakers cannot match. 
 Export markets have dried up.
 Like Dunia Metal, Surabaya Wire, a nail maker in east Java, has given up on exports altogether. ''I used to have 450 workers,'' said, Sindu Prawira, the chief executive of Surabaya. ''Now, we have 170. Almost everybody is like that.''
 Industries everywhere tend to accuse competitors of dirty tricks when they lose market share, of course, and Indonesia's anemic steel industry shoulders its own share of blame for the nation's competitive problems. 
 But as layoffs mount, the Indonesian government has been forced to try to shore up ailing producers.
 In October, Indonesia's Trade Ministry invoked World Trade Organization rules and slapped a 145 percent safeguard tariff on Chinese nail imports, pending negotiations to settle complaints that the Chinese are competing unfairly.
 Irvan K. Hakim, a co-chairman of the Indonesian Iron and Steel Industry Association, said he had aired those sorts of complaints to Chinese officials for years. He did not appear optimistic about a meeting of the minds.
 ''China is China, you know?'' he said, shrugging. ''Even the U.S. cannot talk to China.''
 Uneasy Engagement: This is the sixth in a series of articles examining stresses and strains of China's emergence as a global power. Previous articles in this series are available online: nytimes.com/world 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 10 about disquiet in some developing Asian nations over China's swift economic growth misstated the trade balance between China and the 10 Southeast Asian countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or Asean, from January through September 2009. The most widely cited figures show the Asean countries together ran either a trade surplus of several hundred million dollars with China or a deficit of up to $2.33 billion; the Asean countries over all did not have a deficit of $74 billion with China. (Different factors can be used in calculating the amount of trade, leading to the wide range.) A reader pointed out the error in an e-mail message shortly after the article was published; this correction was delayed for research.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cheaper Chinese products have imperiled Indonesian businesses like the Dunia Metal Works. (A1)
The Dunia Metal Works in Pasarkemis, Indonesia, is running at 40 percent of its capacity as its export markets have dried up. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ED WRAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) MAP: Chinese competition is crushing a factory in Pasarkemis.
 CHART: Nail Imports From China Have Jumped . . .: . . . Squeezing Producers in Other Countries Like Indonesia: Value of iron or steel nails imported into the United States. Adjusted for inflation, in 2009 dollars. In millions. (Source: Foreign Trade Division, U.S. Census Bureau) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (85%); COINS & COINAGE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); EXCHANGE RATES (60%); DEVALUATION (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (96%); INDONESIA (95%); ASIA (95%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); THAILAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



286 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Atheists' Ad Campaign

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Approaching Holidays Prompt Atheist Campaign'' (news article, Dec. 2): As a former elected head of the American Humanist Association for 14 years, I am embarrassed by the A.H.A.'s ''good without God'' campaign of signs on transit vehicles. Humanists are philosophical naturalists, but more important than advertising, one item of the humanist worldview is emphasizing the many positive positions we hold in common with a wide range of religious believers. 
 I refer to such matters as peace, civil liberties, religious freedom, the environment, social justice, democracy, women's rights and so on. 
 Our planetary society does not have the luxury of engaging in angry debates about philosophy. We, all of us, are faced with immediate problems like global warming, endless wars, environmental degradation, denial of civil liberties, widespread economic turndown, misogynistic patriarchalism, the triumph of greed and selfishness over empathy, unemployment and the need for health care reform.
 Progressive and mainstream humanists, Catholics, Protestants, Jews and others of good will need to concentrate on what unites us, not on what divides us. Divisive ad campaigns invite blowback and stimulate both ends of the religious spectrum to engage in fruitless bouts of name-calling and invective.
 Edd Doerr Silver Spring, Md., Dec. 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); WOMEN (72%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (54%); GLOBAL WARMING (53%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (52%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANETARY SOCIETY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



287 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: Ford May Use Stock to Pay Into a Fund

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The Labor Department said Wednesday that it would let the Ford Motor Company use stock instead of cash to pay some of the $13.1 billion that it owed to a new retiree health care fund, pending a period of public comment. 
 The department's Employee Benefits Security Administration said it had proposed granting Ford an exemption to federal pension law. Ford said that it needed the exemption so that it could move ahead with an agreement reached this year with the United Automobile Workers union that allowed Ford to substitute stock for up to half of its obligations to a union-managed health care fund.
 Health care coverage for about 285,000 Ford retirees and their dependents, along with some active workers will shift on Jan. 1 from Ford to the fund, known as a Voluntary Employee Beneficiary Association, or VEBA. The fund, created by Ford's 2007 contract with the U.A.W., is expected to help Ford eliminate billions of dollars in future liabilities.
 General Motors and Chrysler have also created retiree health care funds that take effect next month.
 After the recession left all three automakers running short on cash, they persuaded the U.A.W. to let them substitute company stock for some of their debts to the funds.
 After this year's bankruptcies, 55 percent of Chrysler and 17.5 percent of G.M. are owned by their respective VEBA funds. Ford did not file for bankruptcy protection and remains a public company.
 Ford's shares are now worth more than five times their value in February, when the U.A.W. agreed that it would accept stock for some VEBA payments. The automaker owes an initial payment of $1.9 billion to the retiree fund at the end of the month, with up to $600 million of that amount payable in stock.
 The proposed exemption would allow Ford to transfer securities to the fund, allow Ford and its health plans to reimburse each other for payments paid by the wrong entity as benefits are transferred to the fund, and let Ford recover deposits mistakenly made to the plan.
 ''The law gives the Labor Department authority to grant exemptions that protect the interests of plan participants and beneficiaries,'' the department said in a statement.
 The department's proposal calls for the appointment of an independent fiduciary to represent the plan during any transactions related to Ford securities, in order to ensure that any action is in the interests of its beneficiaries. Benefit payments would be reviewed by an independent, third-party administrator and auditor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (77%); HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



288 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Holiday Jobs Draw on Spirit, and Need

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
''Hi there, Merry Christmas,'' Leticia Quinonez said as she stood outside Macy's here, ringing her Salvation Army bell and offering a warm greeting to passers-by on a frigid morning. 
 With unemployment remaining high, applications for traditional holiday jobs have skyrocketed this year. But many Salvation Army bell ringers standing outside malls, and those playing Santa Claus inside, are not helping solely out of holiday spirit. Like Ms. Quinonez, who receives $8 an hour, they are in it for the paycheck. 
 Dozens of Salvation Army divisions nationwide are paying their ringers and Santas, in a few states slightly above minimum wage, to help make up for a lack of volunteers and donations from individuals, corporate programs and groups. 
 Ms. Quinonez, 41, who is on disability and hoping to go to culinary school, took the bell ringer job this holiday season ''to boost up my own self,'' she said, adding, ''And I like to put a smile on people's face.'' 
 The Salvation Army says its surge in applications started as early as October. In St. Petersburg, Fla., about 325 people applied to be a bell ringer, positions the organization has had trouble filling in the past. In Fort Myers, Fla., applications are up 60 percent this year over last, for a job that pays that state's minimum wage, or $7.25 an hour. 
 ''These low-wage bell ringer positions are actually becoming more desirable with more people out of work,'' said Jennifer Byrd, the spokeswoman for the Salvation Army.
 The Salvation Army of Wake County in Raleigh, N.C., has doubled the number of the red kettles it puts out, and is hiring for the first time to help staff them. Employees work five-hour shifts and make $7.50 an hour, slightly above minimum wage. Like all paid bell ringers, applicants must go through a background check. 
 ''We want to offer people the position, and we want to teach them that it's not just ringing a bell and getting money,'' said Paige Bagwell, a spokeswoman for the division. ''It has to be part of job training.'' 
 Santas are also looking for some extra cash. Bob Mindte, the owner of www.santaforhire.com, a nationwide Santa job placement service that is not a charitable organization, said applications were up about 20 percent this year.
 Being round and jolly pays well, said Mr. Mindte, who has hired 200 Santas. Some can make up to $1,000 a week, he said. 
 But no grinches need apply. All applicants, he said, should ''know how to deal with children.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Leticia Quinonez, Salvation Army bell ringer, at Macy's in Boston. She gets $8 an hour, and the paycheck is the motivation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY C.J. GUNTHER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (72%); CHARITIES (69%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (68%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (71%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



289 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: For Rural Elderly, Times Are Distinctly Harder

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: LINGLE, Wyo. 

 BODY:
Norma Clark, 80, slipped on the ice out by the horse corral one afternoon and broke her hip in four places. Alone, it took her three hours to drag herself the 40 yards back to the house through snow and mud, after she had tied her legs together with rope to stabilize the injury. 
 A dutiful farm wife, Ms. Clark somehow even got to her feet to latch the gate. And her first call when she got to the house was not to 911, but to a daughter 30 miles away.
 ''I told her she'd better come feed the horses,'' said Ms. Clark, telling the story from her living room overlooking her 900-acre wheat farm. 
 Growing old has never been easy. But in isolated, rural spots like this, it is harder still, especially as the battering ram of recession and budget cuts to programs for the elderly sweep through many local and state governments. 
 Ms. Clark has been able to get help since her fall two winters ago because Wyoming, thanks to its energy boom, continues to finance programs for the elderly. But at least 24 states have cut back on such programs, according to a recent report by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington research group, and hundreds of millions of dollars in further cuts are on the table next year.
 The difficulties are especially pronounced in rural America because, census data shows, the country's most rapidly aging places are not the ones that people flock to in retirement, but rather the withering, remote places many of them flee. Young people, for decades now, have been an export commodity in towns like Lingle, shipped out for education and jobs, most never to return. The elderly who remain -- increasingly isolated and stranded -- face an existence that is distinctively harder by virtue, or curse, of geography than life in cities and suburbs. Public transportation is almost unheard of. Medical care is accessible in some places, absent in others, and cellphone service can be unreliable.
 Even religion and the Internet are different here. Churches have consolidated or closed -- a particular hardship for older people, who tend to be avid churchgoers. And a lack of high-speed broadband service in many rural areas compounds the sense of separation from children and grandchildren, as well as the broader world.
 The distance between friends is what gnaws most fiercely at George Burgess.
 Mr. Burgess, who has lived and worked for most of his 96 years in Wyoming and Nebraska as a hired farmhand and in later years as a machinist, still drives his truck almost every day into Torrington, Wyo., about eight miles from his home, for a hot lunch at the senior center. But his driver's license expires in January, and he is deeply worried that he might not pass the test this time around. 
 Mr. Burgess gets housekeeping assistance under a state program that helps older people stay in their homes and out of nursing care. But if he could not socialize in town, he said, he would be lost.
 ''I might be on roller skates,'' said Mr. Burgess, still cowboy-thin in cinched-up Levis, his booming outdoor voice filling his home on a recent snowy afternoon. He glanced around the tiny, cluttered living room -- the coal stove, the broken television, the walls lined with pictures of his wife, Laura, who died just over a year ago after more than 60 years of marriage. 
 ''I wish it was different, but it isn't,'' he said. ''So you endure it.''
 Some people who study rural America say the tough economic times and new budget woes could make it too difficult for many rural stoics to hang on. But others suggest the fortitude of the rural elderly simply runs too deep for that. 
 ''The people will remain, because they're rooted and anchored to the land,'' said Teresa S. Radebaugh, the director of the Regional Institute on Aging at Wichita State University. ''They'll stay no matter what.''
 Verna Bairn, 67, is a farm widow who has lived all her life in Oshkosh, Neb., about 115 mostly empty miles southeast of Lingle. She has seen the young people leave, she said, and the businesses on Main Street close. She has seen the median age in Garden County -- where Oshkosh, population about 900, is the county seat -- climb to 45 to 50 years old, according to the census, more than 10 years older than the nation's as a whole. The counties in northwest Nebraska are now some of the oldest in the country.
 ''One foot in the grave, the other sliding,'' said Ms. Bairn in describing her town. Ms. Bairn has a daughter in Wyoming and a son in Wisconsin. Her husband, Edgar, died in 1998, of cancer, at 60. 
 ''He and I had one plan for our life, and God had another,'' she said of her husband's early death and the personally hard times that followed. ''We played our cards the best we could.''
 It is in fact quite easy to find older people who take comfort in the surroundings they have known since they were young, however difficult things have become. Memory is everywhere, and hardship has been the norm in life, many say, so what's new?
 But an equally important reality, gerontologists and psychologists say, is that people who have managed to reach great age in a tough environment have, in turn, been toughened by the experience. 
 Frank Robinson, 92, embodies that life. He had to quit school at 16 and take over the family farm, near Oshkosh, upon the death of his father in 1934, in the depths of the Great Depression. He said he remembered times when the cash economy had all but broken down in rural Nebraska and barter was the only way to put food on the table -- trading milk and cream from the family's cows for what others in town had to spare. He worked the land for the next 61 years until retiring and moving into town in 1994.
 Now a widower, with his extended family and step-children far away, Mr. Robinson occasionally hears suggestions from friends that he might be happier in an assisted-living community somewhere. The idea, those friends say, goes in one ear and out the other; still, Mr. Robinson bemoans the increasing difficulty of staying where he is.
 ''I don't see how these towns keep on going,'' he said, sitting ramrod straight in a housing-project meeting room, a feed-store cap on his head. ''Years ago on a Saturday, Main Street was filled solid with people, and there was two or three cafes to eat at -- it might be 10, 11 o'clock before they went home,'' he said. ''Now on Main Street on Saturday, there's nothing.'' 
 Some people, like Jesse Cardona, just never stop working. He chose the cowboy's life in Wyoming, and, at 88, said he had the scars to show for it , including being kicked by a bull in the late 1970s. 
 Mr. Cardona has worked on the same 30,000-acre ranch -- since divided into two 15,000-acre sections -- near Torrington, Wyo., for more than 42 years. He lives in a house provided free by the ranch's owners, for whom he still works mending fences in the summer.
 ''I told them when I retired -- no more cows, I'd had enough,'' he said. And he works only short days now, he said, six or seven hours, and spends the winters watching movies, preferably starring John Wayne, on his television.
 ''I don't get lonely,'' he said, sitting in his quiet kitchen. 
 Ms. Clark, the 80-year-old with the bad hip, said she did not suffer from the solitude either. Her chair is positioned to look through the big picture window that dominates her living room. On a clear day, you can see across her land and all the way, 60 miles or so, to Laramie Peak. It is a landscape drenched with the memory, she said, of her husband, Leo, who died last year after a long illness, and the six daughters they raised together on the land.
 ''I sit, and I look,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Burgess, 96, drives into Torrington, Wyo., every day for a hot lunch, but worries about losing his driver's license. (A1)
NORMA CLARK, 80, left, who called her daughter before 911 when she broke her hip.
JESSE CARDONA, 88, in his kitchen near Torrington, Wyo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 VERNA BAIRN, 67, on her hometown, Oshkosh, Neb. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS SCHNEIDER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONE FRACTURES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); AGING (88%); CHILDREN (86%); HORSES (78%); FARM LABOR (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); SENIOR CENTERS & CLUBS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); WHEAT FARMING (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); CENSUS (68%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); RELIGION (66%); DRIVERS LICENSES (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); BROADBAND (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



290 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 747 words

BYLINE: By PETER THAL LARSEN and JAMES PETHOKOUKIS

 BODY:
An Ill-Considered
 Windfall Tax
 A windfall tax should meet two tests: Raise a meaningful amount of cash and be clearly viewed as a one-time charge. The tax that the British government introduced on Wednesday -- 50 percent of bank bonus pools for individual payouts of more than $:25,000 ($40,700) -- fails on both counts. 
 True, banks and bankers have invited this. Governments and central banks committed trillions of dollars to stabilize financial institutions after their reckless behavior helped cause the financial crisis. Huge compensation pools seem like rank ingratitude. 
 The windfall tax answers calls for social justice while simultaneously encouraging banks to change their ways. By aiming at bonus pools, the government has given banks a hefty incentive to use swollen profits to rebuild reserves or pay dividends. Firms that insist on paying out large bonuses, and thus and incurring the tax charge, will face awkward questions from shareholders. 
 Authorities clearly expect banks will take the hint, estimating that the tax will raise just $:550 million -- a long way short of 50 percent of the $:6 billion the City of London is expected to pay in bonuses this year, according to the Center for Economics and Business Research, a British consulting firm. 
 Yet even this figure may be optimistic. Loopholes are hard to avoid when a complicated tax is drawn up in a hurry. Investment banks could follow the example of Barclays, which raised base salaries retroactively. Another possibility is to defer bonuses until April 2010, when the windfall tax expires. 
 Of course, waiting might not work. Some variation of the tax could easily become permanent. But the sudden emergence of this tax further undermines London's reputation for fiscal transparency and predictability. 
 Two years ago, Alistair Darling, the chancellor of the Exchequer, began a poorly planned tax attack on ''nondomiciled'' British residents. His latest effort will merely reinforce the impression that British tax policy is driven by short-term political whims. And the silence from the opposition Conservative Party will do little to ease those concerns. 
 Budget Bipartisanship
 A bipartisan commission pushing Congress to solve America's long-term budget problems is no silver bullet. But it seems to be a compelling idea next to alternatives like permitting higher inflation and risking a dollar crisis. The continuing health care debate shows that Congress has little stomach to make the kinds of hard decisions required to put the country's finances in order. 
 The construct favored by Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, and Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, appears generally sound. A commission would be filled by Congressional decision makers and White House representatives, not experts. This approach would help create a built-in constituency on Capitol Hill and in the Obama administration for fiscal action. Its recommendations of budget cuts and tax increases would also be submitted after the 2010 election. 
 Several other elements are also necessary for the body to function effectively. It should have an advisory panel made up of high-profile members who could both consult with the commission and help sell it across America. Warren E. Buffett, Paul A. Volcker, Bill Gates and Jack Welch would be obvious potential choices. The commission should have a specific target for a debt-to-G.D.P. ratio and a timeline that its suggestions would try to meet. And these should not be subject to Congressional amendment. 
 While the notion of political commissions is worthy of skepticism, there are reasonably successful precedents. Congress passed the Social Security recommendations of the so-called Greenspan Commission in 1983 and the military cutbacks of the Defense Base Realignment and Closure Commission in 2005. 
 But other commissions have failed. And critics will counter that the health care debate, with its manipulation of the Congressional Budget Office's 10-year estimates and other accounting gimmicks, shows that Congress isn't serious about the deficit -- and won't be without a financial crisis as a catalyst. Yet if a crisis isn't at the doorstep, it might at least be in the general vicinity. The dollar is weakening, China is complaining and Moody's is nibbling at America's triple-A credit rating.
 PETER THAL LARSEN and JAMES PETHOKOUKIS 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judd Gregg, left, and Kent Conrad of the Senate Budget Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); INFLATION (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (61%); BUDGET CUTS (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JUDD GREGG (57%); ALISTAIR DARLING (50%); KENT CONRAD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



291 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Possible Truce Between New Jersey Arenas Could Come at a Cost to Fans

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and DAVID M. HALBFINGER

 BODY:
New Jersey sports and music fans could soon have to pay a surcharge to see Devils and Nets games and concerts. A complex deal is being brokered to end a landlord-tenant dispute as well as a price war between the arenas at the Meadowlands and in Newark, according to multiple people involved in the negotiations.
 The two arenas, the aging Izod Center at the Meadowlands and the Prudential Center in downtown Newark, have been undercutting each other to attract bands and other acts since the Prudential Center opened in 2007, state officials say. 
 To end the fight, Jerold L. Zaro, Gov. Jon S. Corzine's economics czar, has brokered a deal to move the Nets to the Prudential Center, cementing the privately run building as the dominant indoor sports venue in New Jersey. It would in turn cede many of its nonsports events -- rock concerts and family shows like the Ice Capades -- to the Izod Center, which would become an entertainment hub.
 To avoid undercutting each other, the arenas would form a 50-50 venture, called Jersey Presents, that would schedule events and share revenue from them.
 A new ticket surcharge of $1 for sports and $3 for other events would go into a fund that would be split between the arenas' owners using a complicated formula. The surcharge, which will look like a tax but is being called a user fee, may require legislation in Trenton.
 Jeffrey Vanderbeek, who owns the Devils and manages the Prudential Center, would be assured of an additional 40 dates or more from the Nets, which helps the arena that he leases from the Newark Housing Authority.
 Vanderbeek declined to comment for this article.
 The Nets, who have been losing tens of millions of dollars a year, would avoid paying a $7.5 million penalty to the Izod Center for breaking their lease to move to Newark. They would also pay a significantly lower per-game rental fee, and earn a share of suite revenue they generate at the Prudential Center. The Devils and the Nets would also sell ticket packages together. New Jersey officials, who hold out hope that the move to Newark's gleaming arena could help keep the Nets from moving to Brooklyn in 2012, said a performance clause in the proposed deal would require that the team spend minimum amounts on player salaries and marketing as long as they remain at the Prudential Center.
 Some of the revenue from the ticket surcharges would be used to end a standoff between the Devils and Newark, which have withheld rent and parking payments to each other. Newark would immediately receive two years of back rent, or about $4 million. The Devils would be paid $350,000 a year over 10 years and, depending on how much the ticket surcharge reaps, could be paid up to $2.7 million more annually to settle disputes with Newark over parking revenues.
 The financially strapped New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority would lose an anchor tenant for its Izod Center but would gain more lucrative concerts and other shows, as well as a portion of the ticket surcharges. Revenue-sharing details on parking have yet to be ironed out.
 Zaro said businesses around the Izod Center in Bergen County would benefit because concertgoers tend to dine out more before and after events than sports fans.
 ''We hope the deal would lead to synergies between the two arenas,'' he said. ''When this deal closes, all these disputes will vaporize.''
 One wild card is the governor-elect, Christopher Christie, a Republican. Zaro, a friend of Christie's, said that he had not yet discussed his plan in depth with Christie's team. (As it happens, Christie's inauguration party will take place at the Prudential Center on Jan. 19.)
 Christie's spokeswoman, Maria Comella, said he had been briefed to some extent on the talks but was not ready to take a position, except on a ticket tax. ''Under Governor-elect Christie, that's not going to happen,'' she said.
 The arenas and teams can add a surcharge to their ticket prices without approval from lawmakers, although the money would then be taxable. But the State Senate president, Richard J. Codey, said that he hoped to pass a ticket surcharge before Christie takes office, and that the difference between a tax and the surcharge was meaningless.
 ''You can call it whatever you want, but a tax is a tax is a tax,'' he said.
 Already, Bergen County lawmakers have raised objections. The deal, they say, would amount to a bailout of the Prudential Center, the Devils and the Nets at the expense of their district and the Sports and Exposition Authority, the state entity that runs Giants Stadium and the Meadowlands Racetrack in addition to the Izod Center.
 Christopher Eilert, chief of staff for State Senator Paul A. Sarlo, a Democrat whose district includes the Izod Center, said Sarlo ''is not going to support any agreement that jeopardizes economic development or jobs in Bergen County, or leaves taxpayers on the hook for debt payments for the sports complex.''
 James Cassella, the mayor of East Rutherford, where the sports complex is located, said the agreement amounts to a subsidy for Newark.
 ''What jumps out at me is that Newark is looking to Bergen County to bail them out, because that's what this boils down to,'' he said.
 Carl Goldberg, the chairman of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, disputed those claims. He said the departure of the Nets would allow the Izod Center to book more entertainment acts, generating more revenue and ending a costly tug-of-war with the Prudential Center.
 ''This allows both facilities to operate in an economically viable model,'' Goldberg said. ''The joint-venture approach makes sense.''
 Barry Baum, a spokesman for the Nets, said the team would make a decision on whether to move to Newark later this month, after it finishes the paperwork on the financing of the arena it plans to build in Brooklyn.
 The Nets face a Dec. 31 deadline to give notice that they intend to leave the Izod Center next year, but people involved say that could be waived. The terms of the deal have largely been settled, but lawyers are still working on the papers, they said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); POP & ROCK (78%); SPORTS (78%); MUSIC (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (91%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (84%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



292 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Pushes Higher After 2 Days of Losses

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market turned higher as gains in shares of materials and technology companies offset concerns about mounting debt around the world.
 The advance ended a day of back-and-forth trading Wednesday as investors grew cautious about rising government debt levels in Spain, Greece and other countries.
 Investors have been looking for safety after the credit rating agency Standard & Poor's reduced the outlook on Spain's debt rating Wednesday. 
 S.& P.'s move came a day after another agency lowered its credit rating on Greece's government. Investors have been watchful for other signs of problems with global debt ever since a state-run company in Dubai shocked investors two weeks ago by asking its creditors for a debt reprieve.
 Meanwhile, stocks again followed moves in the dollar, as they have for months. When it falls, the dollar makes commodities cheaper for foreign buyers and increase profits for American companies that do business outside the United States.
 The dollar has steadied this week against other major currencies, interrupting a steady drop since March. The dollar has fallen as investors take advantage of cheap financing to invest in riskier, higher-yielding assets like stocks and commodities. Signs that the economy is improving have cut into demand for safe-haven investments.
 In recent weeks, however, investors have been shuttling between buying stocks and hoarding cash as they try to lock in some of the big gains they have amassed since a rally started in March.
 As the end of the year approaches, many investors have been building up defensive investments like Treasury bonds. The uncertain tone in the market, combined with light trading volume, has made for choppy trading, which analysts expect to continue through the rest of the year.
 Tom Phillips, president of TS Phillips Investments in Oklahoma City, said he expected that the dollar would lose its pull over the stock market because so many traders have placed bets that the currency will fall and lift stocks.
 ''When everybody understands the game the game doesn't work as well,'' he said. ''I think it will just fray and start to erode.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 51.08 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,337.05. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.01 points, or 0.37 percent, to 1,095.95, while the Nasdaq composite index rose 10.74, or 0.49 percent, to 2,183.73.
 Investors grew concerned that growing debt loads in countries like Greece and Spain as well as the United States and Britain could signal that the threat of defaults and higher borrowing costs could upend a nascent global economic rebound.
 While investors want to see the economy grow, they also know that the Federal Reserve could raise interest rates and remove other stimulus measures once the economy appears to be on solid footing. Higher rates could make stocks look less appealing as returns for other investments improve, potentially upsetting a nine-month advance in stocks that has lifted the S.& P. 500 index by 61.4 percent.
 Not all the day's news was downbeat. The Commerce Department reported that businesses added to inventories at the wholesale level in October after a record 13 straight months of reductions. Investors hope it is a sign that businesses will soon start restocking store shelves. Wholesale inventories rose 0.3 percent in October; economists had expected a 0.5 percent drop.
 Hugh Johnson, chairman and chief investment officer of Johnson Illington Advisors in Albany said signs of improvement in the economy are disrupting advances in the markets because traders predict the Fed will be forced to raise interest rates sooner than expected to keep inflation in check.
 The government reported Friday that employers cut the fewest jobs in November since the recession began two years ago. The figures were far better than expected and prompted a re-evaluation of where the Fed stands, despite comments from Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke that interest rates would remain low.
 In other trading, Treasuries fell, sending yields higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 11/32, to 99 19/32 and the yield rose to 3.43 percent from 3.38 percent late Tuesday.
 Gold rose slightly, while oil fell $1.95 to settle at $70.67 a barrel.
 Britain's FTSE 100 fell 0.4 percent, Germany's DAX index and France's CAC-40 each lost 0.7 percent. 
 Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of 10-year notes and 19-day cash management bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 10-YEAR TREASURY NOTES: High yield in quarterly refunding auction. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) SPAIN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



293 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Advocates Say City Is Running Out of Beds for the Homeless

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
New York City shelters are so full that homeless men and women have been left to sleep on benches, floors and dining room tables over the last three months, violating a landmark 1981 agreement, Legal Aid lawyers charged in court papers on Wednesday.
 The motion by the Legal Aid Society and the Coalition for the Homeless also alleges that homeless women have been transported on buses after midnight to a shelter in East New York, Brooklyn, where they have been allowed to sleep for less than five hours before being required to leave again in the morning. 
 The lawyers said the conditions violated a consent decree from 1981, in which the city agreed to provide clean and safe shelter, including beds and showers, to homeless men and women who sought it. The motion, filed in Supreme Court in Manhattan, requests a judge to enforce the 1981 decree by requiring the city to come up with more beds. 
 Steven Banks, the attorney in chief for the Legal Aid Society, said that the city had effectively run out of shelter.
 ''The extreme situation now is reminiscent of problems that we haven't seen in years,'' Mr. Banks said. ''It's a failure to plan, and it's having dire consequences for vulnerable women and vulnerable men.''
 Robert V. Hess, the commissioner of the Department of Homeless Services, called the motion ''alarmist'' and said that the people cited by the motion had actually refused beds or arrived at the shelters past 2 a.m., when it was too late to receive a bed.
 The system has not yet exceeded capacity, though it is close, Mr. Hess said. Capacity in the adult shelter system was at 99.6 percent on Dec. 8.
 ''We've seen an uptick in demand, so our system, as you might expect, is a little tight,'' he said. ''We're confident that we'll continue to be able to meet demand and meet our obligations throughout the winter.'' 
 Mr. Hess said that the description of homeless women being bused to a night-only shelter was ''potentially correct,'' but he said many of the women had missed curfew at the shelter where they were originally assigned. 
 ''Am I completely comfortable with that? No,'' he said. ''On the other hand, people made a choice not to come in by curfew.'' 
 Shelter providers and advocates for the homeless have been watching nervously as more people have sought shelter in the last several months, a phenomenon that city officials say is the result of the economic downturn. 
 According to the city's daily homeless census, there were 6,975 single adults -- 4,934 men and 2,041 women -- in shelters on Tuesday, Dec. 8, the most recent data available. The count does not include military veterans in short-term housing; chronically homeless people who have entered the Safe Havens program; and the 30,698 people who were in short-term housing for homeless families. 
 Mr. Banks of Legal Aid, which has won several battles with the city over its handling of the homeless shelter system, said he did not take going back to court lightly, but that the city had been unresponsive to urging to increase the number of beds for single adults. 
 Patrick Markee, a senior policy analyst at the Coalition for the Homeless, said the group had been monitoring shelters closely and witnessed the strain on shelter capacity. 
 The 15-page motion filed on Wednesday describes scenes that the Coalition monitors say they witnessed in the last several months. 
 For instance, late at night on Sept. 29, at least 15 homeless men at two shelters the group visited had not received beds. Workers at one of the shelters said there were no more beds available, the motion said. 
 It also said that early on Oct. 9, at the city's Bellevue shelter, 52 men slept in chairs or on the floor as they waited for shelter. Fourteen men were bused to shelters with beds, but 38 remained for the rest of the night. 
 On Oct. 21, 35 men and 4 women were waiting for beds late at night at three shelters inspected by the Coalition, the motion said. At one of the shelters, two women were seen sleeping on a dining room table.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (92%); LEGAL AID (91%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ANIMAL WELFARE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CITIES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); CENSUS (61%); CURFEW (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



294 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Checking Back In With the Risk-Takers

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
SHE was a teacher, he was a government worker and their dog had bad breath. They came up with a canine halitosis cure, almost went broke trying to market it and eventually sold it to Mars Inc. in 2006 for a small fortune. 
 In my debut column in June 2007, I told how Joe and Judy Roetheli (pronounced RATE-lee) of Kansas City, Mo., decided in middle age that they were entrepreneurs and then proved it.
 Since the sale of their company, S&M NuTec, maker of Greenies dog treats, the couple has started 12 ventures, from a tools manufacturer to a spa, and invested in six others. ''We're having fun,'' Mr. Roetheli said. 
 A lot can happen in a little over two years. What follows are accounts of how aspiring entrepreneurs profiled in this column have fared. 
 Many are struggling, yet confident. A year ago, two entrepreneurs, Charles L. Burckmyer and Scott Noll, began shopping for a company to buy. In a deepening recession, they reasoned, they would find an eager seller to their Boston firm, Knob Hill Partners.
 They are still looking. Backed by investors, they have reviewed 100 potential deals in a range of businesses -- from breeding laboratory animals to gambling software -- negotiated with the owners of 10 and are in advanced discussions with two. 
 ''It's just a question of finding a fit,'' Mr. Burckmyer said.
 Thomas Watson, co-founder of Asset Management International in Seattle, which tracks companies' assets, says sales next year will probably be the same as this year's, $1 million, which is one-fourth his projection of 18 months ago. But his company is profitable, he said, has a promising product in the works and is winning customers like United Airlines. ''Considering this economy, we're happy,'' he said.
 Similarly, since she started her Sweet Bites Bakery and Cafe in West Acton, Mass., two years ago, Caitlin Adler has gone from dreamer to obsessive numbers cruncher to hopeful pragmatist.
 In December 2007, Ms. Adler was predicting an increase in sales to $12,000 a week from $7,000 within months. She was soon scaling back her projections and dealing with unexpected expenses.
 Unlike many restaurant start-ups, though, Ms. Adler's bakery has weathered the recession and built a loyal customer base. Sales have grown to about $9,000 a week, she said, and Sweet Bites is making enough money for Ms. Adler to end her financial dependence on her parents and start paying herself a full salary next year.
 ''More people may be on a tighter budget these days, but if you need your daily caffeine fix, you probably won't give this up,'' she said.
 Other entrepreneurs find themselves at a turning point. Six months ago, Ted Ray, an acupuncturist and founder of Ted's Tinctures in Mountain View, Calif., began searching for $750,000 in angel financing. His chances were good, he thought, because he had an actual product on the market, an herbal remedy called FlyRight Jet Lag Formula, with projected sales of $75,000 this year.
 After making pitches to numerous investors, Mr. Ray said, he is in serious talks with two. If he gets the capital, he predicted that revenues would leap and ''I'll go into profitability late next year.''
 Two years ago, Kathleen Diamond's interpreting service, Language Learning Enterprise in Alexandria, Va., was experiencing explosive growth. She said it was acquired last month by CyraCom International of Tucson for an undisclosed sum. She has joined the company as a vice president.
 A few business owners have foundered. In September 2008, Christopher Hazlett described how he switched the focus of his software design firm, Integrate Consulting in Hoboken, N.J., to small organizations after several corporations abandoned him. ''I think it's going to go,'' he declared.
 It did not. In August, he closed up shop. Upbeat to the end, he said that failure led to a dream job at an online distributor of music. ''I get to do pretty much everything I loved when I ran a small company,'' he said.
 Robert Weitz has had a harder time. Three years ago, a wealthy cousin offered to finance any business he wanted to go into, but after a year of looking into businesses including a soccer academy and a spa, he came up dry.
 Today, he is working at a Honda dealership in his native Mexico.
 Some small businesses are thriving in the recession. Peter George, chief executive and part owner of Fidelis Security Systems in Boston, which provides protection against data breaches, said an increase in threats by hackers and laid-off employees has enlarged the market for his company's services. Bookings this year have increased by 72 percent, he said, to more than $7 million.
 ''Fidelis is enjoying the fruits of its early years of focus on this market,'' he said.
 Other entrepreneurs are stepping back. Donna Young, for example, has returned to her first love, corporate management.
 Ms. Young, a native of the Bahamas, still supplies garments to the upscale clothing store she started there with her sister not long after she moved to Epping, N.H., in 2003. But in August, she got an executive position at a Macy's in nearby Manchester and found herself on familiar ground.
 In the Bahamas, Ms. Young had been a human relations officer at the luxury Atlantis resort. At Macy's, she said, she has the same decision-making responsibilities she used to enjoy. ''Plus, I can get better deals with my employee discount,'' she said.
 Danny Kessler, who has dyslexia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, has switched not just careers but continents. Two years ago, Mr. Kessler was holding seminars on self defense for women in the United States. Today, he is teaching conversational English in South Korea. ''I have always wanted to live abroad,'' he said.
 Similarly, Ben Casnocha, who founded a software company at age 14 and wrote the book ''My Start-Up Life'' two years ago at 19, is ''traveling around the world, studying Spanish, contemplating a move to Latin America and thinking about starting a new business, yet unknown.'' 
 But first prize goes to Ernie Doud Jr., co-founder and president of Doud Hausner & Associates, a consulting firm in Glendale, Calif. He, too, is on a voyage of self-discovery, which for him means semiretirement.
 Mr. Doud, 67, and his wife, Maggie, own a hilltop lot in Florence, Ore., ''with an almost 360 degree view that includes the Siuslaw River where it meets the Pacific, the ocean itself and the hills and forests,'' he said. The couple will move to Florence next June to oversee the construction of their dream home.
 ''How wonderful it will be to have time to hold hands, walk on the beach and hike in the trees,'' Mr. Doud said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ernie Doud Jr., co-founder of the consulting firm Doud Hausner & Associates of Glendale, Calif., with his wife, Maggie. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Doud is semiretired, and the couple plans to build a home on this lot in Florence, Ore., and move there in June. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERNIE DOUD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BAKERIES (75%); DOGFOOD & CATFOOD MFG (75%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PET FOODS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); STARTUPS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); RETAIL BAKERIES (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); SALES PROJECTIONS (63%); GAMING (51%)

COMPANY: MARS INC (92%); A MANZONI & C SPA (71%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2064 CANDY & OTHER CONFECTIONERY PRODUCTS (92%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (71%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (72%) MISSOURI, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



295 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths SCANLON, PETER R.

 BODY:
SCANLON--Peter R.,78, died on December 3, 2009 after a long battle with cancer. He was born in the Bronx, one of eight children of the late John T. Scanlon, Jr. and Loretta D. Ryan. 
All of his siblings predeceased him. Pete graduated from All Hallows Grammar School, All Hallows High School and Iona College. He immediately joined Lybrand, Ross Bros. and Montgomery which became Coopers and Lybrand and is now Price Waterhouse Coopers. He proudly served for four years in the US Navy during the Korean Conflict. Pete returned to Lybrand and was elected a partner in 1966 and several years later he became managing partner of the New York Office, then the New York region. He served on the firm council for many years and was appointed vice-chairman of domestic operations. In 1982, Pete was elected to the first of three terms as chairman and CEO of Coopers & Lybrand. He retired in 1991. Prior to his retirement and relocation to Florida, Pete was a Trustee of Iona College for ten years. He was an honorary partner of the New York City Partnership and served as a Trustee of the Economic Club, the Catholic University and the Gregorian University. He was a visiting committee member of MIT-Sloan School, the Conference Board and in 1986 was the Corporate Sponsor of the New York City Partnership Summer Jobs Program. Pete was the recipient of several awards from Iona College, including the Brother Arthur A. Loftus Award for Business and Finance, the Trustee Award, an Honorary Doctor of Law and the Edmund Rice Medal from the Christian Brothers. He was inducted into the All Hallows Hall of Fame in 1991. He received the Conference Board Youth Education Best in Class Award, the Crain's New York All Star Award, the Madison Square Boys and Girls Club Award and the B'nai Brith Youth Service Champion of Youth Award. Pete was a Knight of Malta and a Knight of the Holy Sepluchre. He was a life member of the New York Athletic Club. He served on the Diocese of Palm Beach Finance Committee and was a lector at St. Jude Church in Tequesta, FL. He was the loving husband of 56 years to Mary Jane (Condon), and the devoted father of Peter (Jane), Barbara Scanlon Jessup (William); Brian, and Janet (Bruno Perreault). His son Mark died in 1992. Pete was the beloved grandfather of Conor, Emily, and Nora Scanlon; Christopher Jessup; Audrey and Avery Scanlon; and Nathalie and Gabrielle Perreault. Visitation will be held on Thursday, December 10th from 2-4, 7-9, Aycock Funeral Home, 1112 Military Trail, Jupiter, (561)746-5124. A Mass of Christian Burial will be offered on Friday, December 11, 2009 at St. Jude Catholic Church, 11am, US Highway 1, Tequesta, FL. In lieu of flowers, the family requests your prayers and, if you like, a donation to your favorite charity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CALENDARS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (87%); CANCER (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); KOREAN WAR (73%); RELIGION (71%); NAVIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SPONSORSHIP (65%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



296 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Citi Is Eager To Pay Back Bailout Aid

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
A year after accepting two taxpayer bailouts, Citigroup is racing to raise billions of dollars in the stock market to repay the aid, a crucial step in freeing itself from Washington's grip. 
 Even if Citigroup were to pay back all or part of its bailout funds -- a move some analysts warn might be premature -- the giant financial services company would still be beholden to the government because of other federal support it is receiving. 
 Citigroup is redoubling its efforts to reimburse taxpayers now that Bank of America and many other of its big rivals have repaid the bailout money they received last year at the height of the financial crisis. Doing so would help Citigroup shed the stigma associated with being the last Wall Street giant still tied to Washington. 
 If Citigroup can convince the government that it is strong enough to stand on its own by repaying the money, and persuade investors to buy new shares, the accomplishment would be another milestone in the recovery of the nation's financial industry. Few analysts had expected Citigroup to repay the government so soon. 
 But whether Citigroup will be allowed to repay the money it received under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, is uncertain. Regulators are nearing a consensus on the amount of capital that the bank needs to repay by the end of the year, according to a person briefed on the situation, who spoke on the condition he not be named given the delicate negotiations underway. 
 Citigroup executives and federal regulators are also discussing whether to let the bank out of a government insurance policy that guarantees almost $301 billion of Citigroup's most troubled assets. Citigroup paid for that insurance selling preferred stock to the government. It is unclear how Citigroup would disentangle itself from that policy. 
 No final decisions have been made and the talks remain fluid. If Citigroup does not reach an agreement with its regulators in the next few days, however, it would be difficult to undertake a stock sale before mid-January, given that many investors will soon depart for the holidays. The bank also could run into disclosure issues if it released new information ahead of its first-quarter results.
 While Citigroup executives have been discussing a payback plan with its regulators for months, they stepped up their efforts late last week after Bank of America was approved to repay its relief money. 
 Over the last few days, Vikram S. Pandit, Citigroup's chief executive, has been trying to win permission from federal regulators to repay its remaining $20 billion in relief funds by selling new stock, according to the people briefed on the talks. The government, which provided $45 billion in taxpayer relief, converted $25 billion of its investment into common stock earlier this year. That gave it a one-third ownership stake. 
 At first, Treasury Department and some Federal Reserve officials appeared willing to let Citigroup repay the government as long as the company raised enough money to at least partially offset the $20 billion. Officials from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, who have a frosty relationship with Citigroup executives and deeper financial exposure, had been demanding that Citigroup raise more than that. 
 It is unclear if Citigroup would be required to raise money by selling additional businesses or assets -- one of the terms of the Bank of America's deal to repay the relief funds. Any new stock would dilute the value of Citigroup's existing share, a prospect that has caused their value to tumble this week. A Citigroup spokesman declined to comment late Wednesday. Officials from the Treasury, F.D.I.C. and the Federal Reserve declined to comment, too. 
 Citigroup executives are under pressure to cut a deal that will satisfy all of the bank's regulators, and tension is running high inside the company's Park Avenue headquarters. 
 The stakes are huge. While much of Wall Street is recovering, Citigroup remains plagued by rising losses in its consumer lending business and could face additional strain if does not get some relief from regulators when it moves billions of off-balance-sheet assets back onto its books by the end of this month. 
 Bank executives fear they could lose dozens of talented bankers and traders without a repayment plan in place before bonuses are paid early next year. Citigroup also faces an additional hurdle as the only relief recipient, aside from GMAC Financial Services, to convert government-issued shares into common stock. 
 Any effort by Citigroup to get out from under the government's thumb will probably require the Treasury to begin selling those 7.7 billion shares in the company. That is a complex multistep transaction that is unlikely to happen before the end of this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (69%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); APPROVALS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



297 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Britain Sets Tax On Bank Bonuses

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.; Graham Bowley contributed reporting.

 BODY:
As bankers revel over the return of big Wall Street paydays, the unthinkable is happening in Britain, where the government is making the most direct attack on bank bonuses anywhere in the world. 
 To the howls of London bankers, the British government said Wednesday that it would return money from banks to taxpayers by placing a 50 percent tax on banker bonuses of more than $:25,000, or about $40,700. 
 The one-time windfall tax would affect not only British banks but also the London subsidiaries of Wall Street giants, whose rapid recovery from the financial crisis and plans to award bonuses that could rival those of the bubble years have stunned many Americans. 
 The British plan goes beyond the oversight of the financial pay czar in the United States because it touches all banks, whether they took government funds or not. While there has been no push to adopt a similar tax here, new record bonuses expected to be paid to Wall Street bankers in January may prompt a renewed outcry over lavish payouts, especially ones made by American banks that received government support. 
 ''I think it is very unlikely that you would see this kind of tax on bonuses here in the U.S.,'' Douglas J. Elliott at the Brookings Institution in Washington said. But, he added, ''There are going to be big bonuses this season. There will be high levels of public anger. Therefore there will be some bills introduced. I just don't think they are going to make it through.''
 In a speech to Parliament on Wednesday, Alistair Darling, the chancellor of the Exchequer, effectively conceded that the tax on bank bonuses was mostly a political symbol: The levy, he said, would raise only $:550 million -- an amount that would hardly make up for a yawning budget deficit, let alone the roughly $:1 trillion the government has extended to shore up Lloyds Banking Group, Royal Bank of Scotland and other British banks that stumbled in the crisis. 
 A more severe version of the British tax was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in March, after an uproar over $165 million in bonuses paid to A.I.G. employees after the company received a huge government bailout. But the proposal, which called for a 90 percent retroactive tax on awards of $250,000 and above, was seen as too punitive and never made it to the Senate floor. 
 Since then, President Obama and federal policy makers have taken a more measured approach to taxing banker bonuses, after considering the effect on the government's wider efforts to nurse the banking industry back to health and to maintain a flow of credit to consumers and small businesses. 
 An official briefed on the administration's reviews of Wall Street compensation said the government made a similar effort 20 years ago to tax bonuses -- without success. ''They simply got around the law by giving all sorts of perks and deferred compensation,'' the official said. ''It became unworkable and had unintended consequences.''
 While the effort to tax bonuses at 90 percent did not become law, there is still an appetite for a bonus tax measure in some quarters of Congress. Representative Dennis Kucinich, a Democrat from Ohio, on Wednesday proposed an amendment to the House Rules committee asking that a 60 percent excise tax be imposed on employees awarded bonuses by banks that received taxpayer support. 
 ''People should not profit from misdeeds,'' Mr. Kucinich said. ''Banks are expected to pay $26 billion in bonuses this year -- 60 percent of that figure would yield a substantial amount for the Treasury.''
 In Britain and the United States, there has been a firestorm of criticism over huge payouts at banks. The Most Rev. Rowan D. Williams, archbishop of Canterbury and head of the Church of England, earlier this year called on those who work in finance to repent for their excesses.
 Mr. Darling's tax is aimed more at filling Britain's rapidly dwindling coffers than at any effort to curb the type of risk-taking behavior at banks that fueled the financial crisis. As banks return to profitability after the government supported the banking system, Mr. Darling said, ''if they insist on paying substantial rewards, I am determined to claw money back for the taxpayer.''
 Mr. Darling has been pushing to convince voters and investors that his Labour Party can cut Britain's record budget deficit in half by 2013, bringing it down from a current level equal to 13 percent of economic output. The government's borrowing requirements have soared to $:176 billion.
 Even if the one-time tax on bank's bonus pools was put into effect over a longer period, which is unlikely, banks would undoubtedly devise other ways to compensate their star traders, like increasing base pay.
 ''There are so many ways for a bank to hide its risk exposure,'' said Jon Danielsson, a professor of finance at the London School of Economics. ''Taxing profits or bonuses will have no impact on risk-taking behavior.''
 Yet the tax is not without precedent, even among traditional conservatives. In 1981, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher imposed a one-time tax on bankers in response to the outsize profits they earned from the high interest rates that prevailed then.
 The latest move also reflects the prevailing mood -- even among those generally sympathetic to the financial industry -- that profits this year were largely subsidized by huge government bailouts and a policy of low interest rates that allowed banks to rebuild balance sheets.
 Still, bankers in Britain earning more than $:150,000 a year are likely to receive a lower bonus, even as the marginal tax rate on bonuses they do receive rises to 50 percent from 40 percent next spring. Already, many are considering ways to dodge the levy.
 ''This definitely forces you to take more aggressive evasive action,'' said one investment banker, who was not authorized to speak publicly. 
 Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel laureate in economics at Columbia and a former official in the Clinton administration, said he saw some justifications for imposing a similar tax on Wall Street bonuses, especially if it would offset pain elsewhere in the economy. 
 He said such a tax could find political support because it would be a source of tax revenue when there was a need for economic stimulus, and government spending was otherwise constrained. 
 ''In that mix, a tax on bonuses would certainly be more acceptable than cutting Social Security payments,'' he said.
 But, he said, it would be unlikely to find political traction because opponents in the banking industry would argue that it would hurt an industry only now recovering from the crisis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prime Minister Gordon Brown, left, and Alistair Darling, chancellor of the Exchequer, want to revive the Labour Party's fortunes. (POOL PHOTO BY ANTHONY DEVLIN)
 Traders in London tracking the market reaction on Wednesday to Mr. Darling's announcement of the tax on big bank bonuses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW WINNING/REUTERS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BAILOUT BONUSES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (64%); RBS (LSE) (64%); RBS (AMS) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%)

PERSON: ALISTAIR DARLING (77%); GORDON BROWN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



298 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Goes to Wall St. With Words of Thanks

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson went to Wall Street on Wednesday, not to pillory financiers, as perhaps many of his constituents would have liked, but to praise them and defend the hefty year-end bonuses that have provoked intense furor.
 Refusing to join in the collective bashing of investment bankers and traders that has become a national pastime, Mr. Paterson instead encouraged them to promote the critical role they have played in the city's economy and would play in an economic rebound. 
 More than any other part of his noontime talk at the Museum of American Finance, Mr. Paterson's brief mention of Wall Street compensation made clear his sympathies. In trying to explain why the often exorbitant year-end bonuses the big banks pay out are good for New York, he described salaries on Wall Street as ''rather low.''
 Mr. Paterson meant that base pay, before bonuses, makes up a fraction of a banker's pay. But those base salaries still average more than $100,000 a year, more than double the median annual household income in the city of less than $50,000.
 ''Some people think that if you deny the bonuses, that the money's coming back to the American taxpayers,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''It's actually the other way around: If you deny the bonuses, the money stays in the firms. It's when you pay out the bonuses that you start to get the huge tax collections that New Yorkers see.''
 He suggested that New Yorkers should defend Wall Street the way that California has defended its grape-growing industry or Iowa its corn production: ''We need to stand behind the engine of our economy in New York, and that engine is Wall Street.'' 
 He did not directly mention the meltdown of the mortgage market that set off the financial crisis or Bernard L. Madoff, the convicted Ponzi schemer. Instead, he urged his audience of more than 100 to get out the message that ''New York benefits from all that Wall Street does.''
 Mr. Paterson himself could stand to benefit from Wall Street, considering the uphill climb he faces in next year's election. His approval ratings are abysmal, and he trails badly in the polls and in campaign funds behind Andrew M. Cuomo, the state's attorney general, a fellow Democrat who is expected to challenge Mr. Paterson in the primary. 
 So his speech before deep-pocketed Wall Street bankers might help his campaign finances.
 Mr. Paterson's embrace of Wall Street was, naturally, well received by his audience, which was assembled a block east of the New York Stock Exchange. When he was finished, the executives stood and applauded. 
 Richard D. Parsons, the chairman of Citigroup, which has taken $45 billion in bailout money from the federal government's Troubled Asset Relief Program, called the speech ''terrific.''
 Kathryn S. Wylde, the chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, which represents the biggest corporations, said the governor ''is ideally positioned as the person to lead an effort to restore the status of Wall Street.''
 She said the financial services industry needs leadership from New York officials to fight off efforts in Congress ''to blame Wall Street for everybody's problems.'' As an example, she cited a pending bill that would tax stock trades to pay for infrastructure improvements. 
 ''The guys from Wall Street are not in a position to sing their own praises right now,'' Ms. Wylde said.
 Most of Mr. Paterson's speech focused on the state's dire financial condition and his plan to withhold a portion of state aid to local communities. 
 He did not specify when the withholding would begin, but said that it would happen before the end of the year. He said that it would be done ''across the board,'' because if the government was selective about which payments to delay, it would open itself up to lawsuits.
 He said he would probably be sued for refusing to pay the state's obligations on time. But he said he had no choice. The alternative was insolvency, he said: ''I will not let New York state run out of money on my watch.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (84%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (66%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); PONZI SCHEMES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); ANDREW CUOMO (59%); BERNARD MADOFF (58%); RICHARD D PARSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



299 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Democrats in Disarray Over Bank Rules

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House Democratic effort to overhaul regulation of the nation's financial system ran into new internal resistance Wednesday, demonstrating the difficult balancing act the party faces in trying to shape rules to prevent a repeat of last year's financial crisis.
 As the House took up a sweeping measure that would put new controls on businesses and financial institutions, a bloc of business-oriented Democrats threatened to withhold support because of their concerns about its impact on financial institutions. 
 To address those concerns, Representative Melissa Bean, Democrat of Illinois, a leader of the group called the New Democrat Coalition, offered a proposal to limit a state's ability to impose tougher rules on national banks already judged to meet federal standards. 
 But liberal lawmakers, led by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, were not eager to make concessions to banks given their role at the center of the economic crisis. The dispute stalled the beginning of a debate scheduled to run through Friday.
 Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader, eventually joined Ms. Pelosi and the Treasury Department in brokering a compromise that met the objectives of Ms. Bean and her allies and cleared the way for consideration of the measure. 
 Because of strong Republican opposition to the legislation, Democrats need solid support from within their own ranks to advance the measure. Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, the chief author of the bill, called the proposal the most significant increase in regulation of the financial sector since the Great Depression.
 The plan had already been slowed by members of the Congressional Black Caucus, who threatened to oppose it unless more was done to address the economic troubles of minority communities.
 As a result, provisions were added to redirect $4 billion from the bank bailout fund to provide low-interest loans to unemployed homeowners struggling to keep their residences and to purchase and repair abandoned and foreclosed homes.
 ''These loans would help minimize future foreclosures and protect American homeowners,'' said Representative Elijah Cummings, Democrat of Maryland and one of the advocates of the financial aid.
 Republicans say the measure will thrust the government deeper into the economy and put new restraints on lenders and other businesses that will stifle business growth.
 Conservatives said a proposal that would place new oversight on large institutions whose failure could threaten the entire financial system amounted to ''punishing success'' by giving the government added power over the largest American employers.
 ''We are getting beyond Obama-nomics and getting into Chavez-nomics here,'' said Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, referring to Hugo Chavez, the Venezuelan president and his socialist-inspired policies.
 The regulatory legislation is a top priority of the Obama administration, which endorsed the House bill. Administration officials said that the measure, while not perfect, includes much of what the White House sought when it began pushing for an overhaul earlier this year.
 ''House passage will move the nation another important step towards necessary, comprehensive financial reform that will create clear rules, consistent and systematic enforcement of those rules, and thus a more stable financial system with better protection for consumers and investors,'' the administration said in its statement backing the measure.
 Centrist Democrats have also raised objections to a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency that would be created by the legislation to regulate the sale of financial products and services.
 The legislation seeks to eliminate future bailouts by creating a special fund that would cover the costs of winding down failing financial institutions. The money would be raised through new assessments on financial companies with more than $50 billion in assets and hedge funds with more than $10 billion

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, the chief author of the bill, called it the most significant increase in regulation of the financial sector since the Great Depression. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); FORECLOSURE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BAILOUTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); US PRESIDENTS (63%)

PERSON: MELISSA L BEAN (73%); NANCY PELOSI (70%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); JEB HENSARLING (58%); ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (58%); STENY HOYER (55%); HUGO CHAVEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



300 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: How to Mend Fences With Pakistan

BYLINE: By ASIF ALI ZARDARI. 
Asif Ali Zardari is the president of Pakistan.

DATELINE: Islamabad, Pakistan 

 BODY:
 NOW that President Obama has recommitted the United States to stand with Pakistan and Afghanistan in our common fight against terrorism, extremism and fanaticism, it would be useful for Americans and Pakistanis to consider what has brought us to this point -- and what the conflict's true endgame must be.
 Despite the noise created by an often hyperactive press in Pakistan (an essential and preferable alternative to the censorship that prevailed during my country's military dictatorships), and the doubts expressed in America, Pakistan's democratically elected government is unambiguously on the right path toward establishing a moderate and modern nation. 
 Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani and I are working closely with our national assembly and our military and intelligence agencies to defeat the Taliban insurgency and the Qaeda-backed campaign of terrorism. Simultaneously, we are pursuing policies that will re-establish Pakistan as a vibrant economic market and finally address the long-neglected weaknesses in our education, health, agriculture and energy sectors. This isn't just rhetoric -- it is an active policy with new budget priorities and a reoriented national mindset.
 Over the last weeks I have moved forcefully to re-establish the traditional powers of the presidency as defined in the parliamentary model on which our Constitution is based. Our Constitution was distorted and perverted by military dictators who usurped the legal powers of Parliament. In accordance with the manifesto of the Pakistan Peoples Party, I am working toward strengthening the separation of powers of the presidency from those of the prime minister. Recently, I voluntarily handed back the chairmanship of the National Command Authority that exercises control over Pakistan's nuclear arsenal. Contrary to some of the commentary on the subject, this is not a sign of weakness, but rather a demonstration of the vitality of Pakistani democracy. 
 As President Obama has noted, Pakistan's military has courageously executed important actions in the Swat Valley and South Waziristan against terrorists who threaten all of us. Pakistan has paid an enormous price in blood and treasure. But this is a price we are willing to pay. Every day across our land, cowards distort our religion of peace, Islam, by slaughtering innocent people. Three thousand civilians, including my wife, Benazir Bhutto, and 2,000 soldiers and police officers have been killed in the last eight years. Just last week 40 people died in a mosque while at Friday prayers, including 10 children. This is our war as well as America's.
 Yet in both countries there is deep suspicion toward the other. Many Americans still wonder, despite our sacrifices, if Pakistan is doing all it can to fight terrorism. Some resent what they believe is an absence of gratitude in Pakistan for American aid. But consider the history as seen by Pakistanis. 
 Twice in recent history America abandoned its democratic values to support dictators and manipulate and exploit us. In the 1980s, the United States supported Gen. Muhammad Zia ul-Haq's iron rule against the Pakistani people while using Pakistan as a surrogate in the war against the Soviets in Afghanistan. That decade turned our peaceful nation into a ''Kalashnikov and heroin'' society -- a nation defined by guns and drugs. In its fight against the Soviets, the United States, as a matter of policy, supported the most radical elements within the mujahedeen, who would later become the Taliban and Al Qaeda. When the Soviets were defeated and left in 1989, the United States abandoned Pakistan and created a vacuum in Afghanistan, resulting in the current horror.
 And then after 9/11, the United States closed its eyes to the abuses of the dictatorship of President Pervez Musharraf, providing support to the regime while doing little to help with social needs or encourage the restoration of democracy. For Pakistanis, it is a bitter memory. 
 Public mistrust of the United States also stems from regional issues, specifically policies concerning India. I know it is the conventional wisdom in Washington that my nation is obsessed with India. But even to those of us who are striving toward accommodation and peace, the long history and the unresolved situation in Kashmir give Pakistanis reason to be concerned about our neighbor to the east. Just as the Israeli-Palestinian dispute cannot be resolved without accommodating the Palestinian people, there cannot be permanent regional peace in South Asia without addressing Kashmir. 
 The recent upset in Pakistan over the Kerry-Lugar legislation, which President Obama signed into law and which requires the secretary of state to report to Congress on military and civil progress in Pakistan, shows how sensitive many here are to what they see as unfair treatment by the United States. It would be helpful if the United States, at some point, would scrutinize India in a similar fashion and acknowledge that it has from time to time played a destabilizing role in the region. 
 The perceived rhetorical one-sidedness of American policy often fuels the conspiracy theories that abound here -- theories that blame the West for all of our ills. Pakistan's elected democratic leadership is itself a victim of some of these conspiracy theories, but our American partners must understand their origins and work with us to turn public opinion around.
 Although we certainly appreciate America's $7.5 billion pledge over the next five years for nonmilitary projects in Pakistan, this long-term commitment must be complemented by short-term policies that demonstrate American neutrality and willingness to help India and Pakistan overcome their mutual distrust. It could start by stepping up its efforts to mediate the Kashmir dispute. 
 In recent days, I have thought often of something my wife, Benazir, wrote in the days before her death: ''It is so much easier to blame others for our problems than to accept responsibility ourselves.'' Benazir added that conspiracy theories and ''toxic rhetoric'' were ''an opiate that keeps Muslims angry against external enemies and allows them to pay little attention to the internal causes of intellectual and economic decline.''
 The free world stands with President Obama in the effort to defeat the extremism that threatens us all. Pakistanis are on the frontlines in this battle. 
 But we need help. We need the support of our allies in war but also to help build a new Pakistan that promises a meaningful future to our children. We are not looking for -- and indeed reject -- dependency. We don't need or want (nor would we accept) foreign troops to defeat the insurgency, and we seek trade more than aid from you in the future. It is an economically viable and socially robust democratic Pakistan that will be the most effective long-term weapon against terrorism, extremism and fanaticism. This is the necessary endgame. And this is how history will judge victory. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EMILIANO PONZI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); RELIGION (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); CENSORSHIP (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); YOUSAF RAZA GILANI (58%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



301 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: New Chief Nominated For Mexico's Central Bank

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
President Felipe Calderon nominated the finance minister Agustin Carstens to be governor of the central bank Wednesday, a choice intended to ensure stability as the country begins to see signs of an economic recovery. 
 Mr. Carstens, 51, spent 20 years in various positions at the Bank of Mexico until the beginning of the decade. The finance minister since December 2006, Mr. Carstens was able to persuade the congress this fall to raise some taxes to offset increased anti-poverty spending. 
 The Senate must approve his appointment, which would take effect Jan. 1 after the term of the current governor, Guillermo Ortiz, expires.
 ''We believe that there will not be major modifications in the way monetary and fiscal policy has been conducted,'' wrote Gabriel Casillas, chief Mexico economist for JPMorgan Chase, on the nomination. 
 In his 12 years at the central bank, Mr. Ortiz has reduced inflation from double digits to an expected 4 percent this year. He has also become increasingly outspoken about the conditions that he believes hold back economic growth, particularly the control that a few companies have over the communications and energy sector. 
 Mexico's economy is expected to shrink 7 percent this year, making it one of the countries hit hardest by the financial crisis. 
 Mr. Carstens was criticized in Mexico for being slow to recognize the severity of the contraction, given Mexico's close relationship with the United States. Mexico's exports, remittances and tourism revenues were all sharply affected by the recession in the United States. 
 Mr. Calderon also named Ernesto Cordero, the secretary of social development, to succeed Mr. Carstens at the finance ministry. Mr. Cordero is considered to be a close ally of Mr. Calderon. He spent two years as an under secretary at the finance ministry before taking over the social development post last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); GOVERNORS (58%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (56%); TOURISM (51%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



302 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Poll Finds Support for Obama's Plan for Afghanistan Mixed With Skepticism

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and DALIA SUSSMAN; Megan Thee-Brennan and Marina Stefan contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A bare majority of Americans support President Obama's plan to send 30,000 more troops to Afghanistan, but many are skeptical that the United States can count on Afghanistan as a partner in the fight or that the escalation would reduce the chances of a domestic terrorist attack, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
 In the wake of the president's address last week explaining his decision, the poll found a 10 percentage point increase in public approval of Mr. Obama's handling of the war in Afghanistan since last month, to 48 percent. But the shift reflects a twist on the political polarization that has marked much of Mr. Obama's first year in office: Republican and independent voters are rallying behind Mr. Obama as he presses for the troop escalation, while Democrats remain decidedly cool to his war plans. 
 The poll showed a steady slide in support for Mr. Obama as he approaches the end of his first year in office. His job approval rating has now hit 50 percent, the lowest yet in this poll; it was 68 percent at its peak in April. The percentage of Americans who approve of his handling of the economy has dropped to 47 percent from 54 percent in October. And 42 percent approve of the way he is handling health care, down five percentage points in the last few months.
 Mr. Obama has spent much of the past three months trying to rally support for a health care bill and formulating a plan for Afghanistan. But in the poll, 12 percent of respondents said health care was the biggest problem facing the nation, while just 2 percent named Afghanistan. Nearly 50 percent listed the economy or jobs. 
 Questioning for the survey began on Friday, the day the government announced a decline in the unemployment rate to 10 percent from 10.2 percent and a sharp drop-off in the rate of job loss in November, and as the White House embarked on an effort to present Mr. Obama as focused on the economy and jobs.
 The support for Mr. Obama's Afghanistan policy is decidedly ambivalent, and the nation's appetite for any intervention is limited. Over all, Americans support sending the troops in by 51 percent to 43 percent, while 55 percent said setting a date to begin troop withdrawals was a bad idea.
 Nearly 6 in 10 respondents said they did not want troops to remain there for more than two years; that includes 32 percent who said troops should leave within a year. Mr. Obama said that he would begin withdrawing American troops from Afghanistan in July 2011, but the administration has said the time it takes to withdraw would be contingent on conditions on the ground.
 Just under half thought the United States would succeed in what Mr. Obama said was a central mission: preventing terrorists from using Afghanistan as a base of support, while 39 percent said they thought an increased effort in Afghanistan would make the United States safer from a domestic terrorist attack.
 The poll also found that despite Mr. Obama's address to the nation last week, in which he sought to lay out a justification for the mission, nearly half of the respondents said that he had not clearly explained his plan.
 The poll underscores the extent to which Mr. Obama has defied Democrats on the war. About two-thirds of Republicans support the troop escalation, while 53 percent of Democrats oppose it. Conversely, most Republicans oppose Mr. Obama's proposal to set a date to start pulling out troops, while Democrats applaud it.
 The percentage of Republicans who approve of Mr. Obama's Afghanistan policy has increased 19 percentage points since November to 42 percent; 55 percent of Democrats approved, little-changed since last month.
 The poll was conducted by telephone from Friday through Tuesday night, with 1,031 respondents, and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
 The poll suggested a divide between Democrats who approve of Mr. Obama's job performance over all, even as they are upset with Afghanistan, and Republicans who disapprove of Mr. Obama's job performance over all, even if they are happy with what he is doing in Afghanistan.
 ''We've got to chase the Taliban out and end the war in Afghanistan, and we can't do that unless we have more troops there than we have now,'' Elizabeth Ledwith, 77, a Republican from Glenside, Pa., said in a follow-up interview.
 But, Ms. Ledwith added: ''Over all, I disapprove because Obama is putting us in terrible debt for years down the road by giving away all this money. Whenever anything happens, he throws a few more billion dollars at it.''
 By contrast, Karen Herald, 67, a Democrat from Corvallis, Ore., said she liked that Mr. Obama was ''not George Bush.''
 ''I think he presents a really good face for America,'' Ms. Herald said.
 But, she said: ''I think he's dealing with the kind of situation that no amount of military troops will help. I'm uneasy about sending more troops because I think the war is probably not winnable.''
 More than 80 percent of Democrats said they approved of Mr. Obama's job performance, compared with 19 percent of Republicans and 45 percent of independents. 
 Nearly 70 percent of Republicans said the United States was doing the right thing by fighting in Afghanistan; fewer than half of the Democrats shared that view. Over 60 percent of Republicans said the additional troops would make the United States safer from terrorism, compared with 28 percent of Democrats.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marines in the volatile Helmand Province in southern Afghanistan last week. The American force in the province is expected to nearly double next year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN FRAYER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A18) CHART: Public Assessment of Obama's Plan for Afghanistan: Do you think Barack Obama has clearly explained his plan for Afghanistan, or hasn't he? (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TERRORISM (77%); APPROVALS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); DISMISSALS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



303 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: 2009 Sleaze Play

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
Things have gotten so bad that one columnist, The Los Angeles Times's Bill Plaschke, has called 2009 the year of sleaze. Being treated to a seemingly endless tale of Tiger Woods's infidelity is only the latest lowlight in a year that brought us Rick Pitino, Steve McNair, the McCourt divorce and now an N.C.A.A. investigation of Tennessee that involves (of course!) recruiting hostesses. The ousted Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis outlined a potential affair by Southern California Coach Pete Carroll as if he were drawing up a play in the dirt and then wondered why anyone thought it was a big deal. Hey, he was just trying to stay hip. It's the year of sports sex, the ultimate recession-proof business.
 Sports Illustrated's Phil Taylor wondered aloud on Wednesday why there was not more outrage around the tale of corruption being told by the former N.B.A. referee Tim Donaghy, and the answer is: it did not involve a perky reality show contestant who saved sleazy text messages. 
 In response, the rest of this column will be a Woods-free zone. Thankfully, we have a reason to talk about Curtis Granderson, the outfielder the Yankees are landing in a three-way trade who is such a solid citizen, The Detroit Free Press's Shawn Windsor explains why Detroit is mourning far more than the loss of his on-base percentage. The Yankees are thrilled about that, though, with the baseball cognoscenti showering them with applause. SI.com's Tom Verducci said the move shows the Yankees are not just rich, but smart. ESPN.com's Jayson Stark wonders if Granderson's 2009 numbers, though, portend a decline, and Foxsports.com's Bob Klapisch warns it probably means the Yankees will not land the ace Roy Halladay. The Daily News's Bill Madden, meanwhile, reminds everyone that another good guy, Johnny Damon, remains in limbo.
 The limbo period has ended in one college football coaching search, with Louisville landing the Florida defensive coordinator Charlie Strong. The move, just days after Tony Dungy assailed major college football for its lack of minority head coaches, means that number has vaulted a whopping 200 percent, which is what happens when you go from one black coach (Miami's Randy Shannon) to three (Strong and Virginia's Mike London) in two days.
 Nearly everyone seems to think Notre Dame will move quickly to hire Cincinnati's Brian Kelly, with one breathless report saying the process is ''heating up,'' and another saying Kelly actually interviewed before the last regular-season game. 
 The N.F.L. has not reached coach dumping/hiring season yet, but it's getting close. Philadelphia took itself out of that scene by giving Coach Andy Reid a three-year extension, which, CBSSports.com's Charley Casserly writes, is an excellent move. If only the Eagles had an answer for Brian Westbrook's concerns about his head, which is an even tougher conundrum than what is wrong with the Patriots. Don Banks of SI.com, though, says that involves a long list.
 At least the topic of crooked refs is not flooding the N.F.L. as it is the N.B.A., where the Celtics' Rasheed Wallace is predicting the Donaghy fallout will only get messier. Spurs Coach Greg Popovich, though, said he would quit if he believed the referees were corrupt.
 The N.H.L.'s eye-raising story of the day happened before a player even took the ice, with the Islanders' Brendan Witt getting hit by an S.U.V. while he crossed a street in Philadelphia to get coffee. This being a hockey player, not only did Witt not miss the game, he still got his cup of coffee. This is one of the few incidents not watched over by the N.H.L. ''war room'' in Toronto, that mystical place where the league plays Big Brother.
 A war room is hardly needed to pass judgment on the idea the N.C.A.A. is mulling, to expand its wildly successful basketball tournament to 96 teams. To Yahoo.com's Chris Chase, this is the worst idea the N.C.A.A. has ever had, and that is no mean feat.
 But at least it isn't sleazy. By today's standards, anyway.
 Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TIGER WOODS SCANDAL (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); BASEBALL (76%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (76%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ATHLETES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (67%); TEXT MESSAGING (52%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (91%); ESPN INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); MIAMI, FL, USA (52%) MICHIGAN, USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (58%); FLORIDA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



304 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: A Health Care Battle on Many Fronts

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Reid Says Accord Resolves Impasse on Public Option'' (front page, Dec. 9):
 In achieving an agreement that would allow uninsured and inadequately covered Americans the ability to choose from a variety of national health care plans (just like current members of Congress and federal employees) and also allowing those over 55 to buy into Medicare, the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, has finally hit on the proper formula for success.
 Since members of Congress would be in an awkward position voting to deny others the same benefits that they enjoy and to reject opening Medicare participation to middle-aged people paying for the privilege, any opposition can now be legitimately labeled blind obstructionism. 
 Health care reform is well on its way. It is time to end the debate and enact a program.
 Arthur L. Yeager Edison, N.J., Dec. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''What My Amendment Won't Do'' (Op-Ed, Dec. 9):
 I admire Representative Bart Stupak for explaining his amendment to health care reform, but find his reasoning lacking. If the Stupak amendment simply maintains federal law, why is it needed? 
 As I understand the federal subsidy program, it is designed to allow impoverished Americans to purchase private health insurance. If the recipients are too poor to afford coverage on their own, how then can they afford an extra insurance package to cover abortion? This amendment seems like a way to prevent the poor from access to safe abortions. 
 By depriving women of fiscal support for a legitimate, often lifesaving medical procedure, the likely effect would be to reduce the number of safe, legal abortions, and to increase the incidence of illegal, unsafe abortions. 
 At this point, I, like many Americans, continue to view Mr. Stupak's amendment as reprehensible for an array of reasons.
 William Lawton Huntsville, Ala., Dec. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Representative Bart Stupak's Op-Ed essay reinforces the absurdity of legislative efforts to control ways in which federal tax dollars are used by individual Americans.
 Although the Hyde amendment banned the use of Health and Human Services dollars for abortion, federal money finds its way to citizens in many forms, like Social Security and unemployment payments. Of course, none of this money is designated for abortion; but in a free society, once disbursed, it may be used in any way by the recipient. For example, a grandparent may choose to pay for a granddaughter's abortion with Social Security dollars.
 Few of us approve of every use to which our tax dollars are put, be it the funding of a pre-emptive war or stem cell research. But even though democracy may produce legislative outcomes of which some of us disapprove, taxes are owed and must be paid.
 William Reusch Okemos, Mich., Dec. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Coverage Without Borders,'' by Roger Mahony (Op-Ed, Dec. 8):
 Cardinal Mahony's article in favor of health care access for immigrants is an important message to elected officials grappling with reform legislation. Sadly, I couldn't help note the irony of advocating on behalf of immigrants, while in the same breath urging policy makers to deny reproductive health care for millions of women. Over half of all immigrants are women.
 The National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health knows very well the devastating impact of making abortion elusive for those who can't pay with personal funds. Latinas are among the poorest in this country and tend to lack access to health insurance in higher numbers than other groups. In fact, one in four women living in poverty who wants to choose abortion can't because politicians prevent federal tax dollars from covering the procedure.
 The lesson learned from the last three decades of misguided federal policy on abortion is that creating a two-tier system of access to health care is unfair, punitive and harmful.
 To quote Cardinal Mahony: ''To allow people's basic health needs to be trumped by divisive politics violates American standards of decency and compassion.'' We couldn't agree more.
 Silvia Henriquez Executive Director National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health New York, Dec. 8, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Cardinal Roger Mahony makes several assertions about the possible impact of proposed health care legislation on this country's immigrant population. I would like to address three of those assertions.
 First, he states that the current version of the Senate bill fails to defend ''immigrants' rights to health care.'' Cardinal Mahony apparently believes that those who are here illegally somehow automatically acquire rights to the benefits of being a citizen. I would suggest that the bill, as currently drafted, correctly provides coverage for all who are in this country legally, whether by dint of birth or successful application for citizenship. 
 Second, the cardinal states that he has found that ''the dreadful anti-immigrant rhetoric that dominates talk shows does not represent the views of a majority of Americans.'' Polling data indicate that a clear majority of Americans believe that existing immigration laws should be much more strongly enforced than is currently the case. This same majority also agrees that illegal immigrants have no automatic right to receive any of the taxpayer-funded benefits available to citizens.
 Lastly, Cardinal Mahony declares that denying ''our [illegal] immigrant brothers and sisters basic health care coverage is immoral.'' While I am not qualified to argue the issue of morality on any subject with Cardinal Mahoney, I'd suggest that providing health care or any other benefits to illegal immigrants could be an important role for private charities, including the Catholic Church. 
 Members of the cardinal's congregation can decide whether or not to undertake that responsibility. Taxpayers should not be obligated to do so.
 D. T. Hubbard Sr. Chesterfield, Mo., Dec. 8, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAN CASSARO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ABORTION (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); GRANDPARENTS (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%)

PERSON: BART STUPAK (89%); HARRY REID (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (53%) ALABAMA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



305 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Negotiator Dismisses Reparations for Climate

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN and TOM ZELLER Jr.

DATELINE: COPENHAGEN 

 BODY:
The top American envoy to climate talks here flatly rejected arguments Wednesday by diplomats from poor lands that the United States owes a debt to developing nations for decades of American emissions that contributed to global warming. 
 It was not the first time that the American negotiator, Todd D. Stern, had dismissed the notion. But his words highlighted the divide that persists between the poor and the wealthy as nearly 200 nations try to sketch the outlines of a new pact on climate change here. 
 Asked about arguments by diplomats and some protesters that the United States should provide hundreds of billions of dollars in aid to developing nations as reparations, Mr. Stern, the special envoy for climate change, bluntly fired back at a news conference. 
 ''I actually completely reject the notion of a debt or reparations or anything of the like,'' he said. ''For most of the 200 years since the Industrial Revolution, people were blissfully ignorant of the fact that emissions caused a greenhouse effect. It's a relatively recent phenomenon.'' 
 At the same time, he made clear that the United States was prepared to join other industrialized countries both in cutting their own greenhouse gas emissions and in giving aid to the poorest and most vulnerable countries to deal with rising seas, drought and other phenomena that are expected to worsen as the planet warms. 
 Mr. Stern also demurred at a persistent proposal among some larger developing countries that the United States and other major emitters of long standing provide financial aid to emerging economic powerhouses, particularly China, to shift to cleaner energy technologies.
 ''China has $2 trillion in reserves,'' said Mr. Stern, whose arrival in Copenhagen on Wednesday suggested that the talks, which run through Dec. 18, were moving into a more significant phase. ''We don't think China would be the first candidate for public funding.''
 The framework for a potential accord must be in decent shape before top ministers arrive to prepare for the more than 100 heads of state, including President Obama, who will come to close out the negotiations at the end of next week.
 For Mr. Obama and other leaders who have made action on climate a priority, the pressure is enormous to produce an agreement that has enough concrete commitments to be considered politically binding and pave the way for a formal treaty next year.
 Reflecting the pressures on Mr. Obama, Lisa P. Jackson, the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, defended the president's record in a speech at the climate conference and made a pointed jab at Bush administration policies.
 ''In less than 11 months since taking office, we have done more to promote clean energy and prevent climate change than happened in the last eight years,'' she said. 
 She cited investments under the fiscal stimulus bill, new fuel emissions standards for cars and her agency's finding that greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide pose a danger to public health, a decision that gives it regulatory power over emitters.
 Ms. Jackson also sought to assure delegates that the Obama administration would press Congress to pass climate and energy legislation that is stalled in the Senate. The delays have fostered unease about Washington's willingness to set emissions targets or ratify a global treaty should one be reached in 2010. 
 Across Copenhagen, police officers are meanwhile gearing up for protests. The police reported that they raided a building early Wednesday in the city's Osterbro section and confiscated paint bombs and equipment like bolt cutters that they said demonstrators were readying to overcome barricades. No arrests were reported. A large-scale march is planned on Saturday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (75%); LISA P JACKSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



306 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Not in This Town You Don't

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 SO far, the journey of Michaele and Tareq Salahi from unknown arrivistes to notorious party crashers has focused on the apparent slipups of the Secret Service and the White House social secretary. But to fully grasp the ongoing conniption inspired by the episode, you need to understand that when Ms. Salahi strutted onto the South Lawn in that bright red lehenga, she and her husband breached far more than a secure perimeter.
 They also trampled countless protocols that are the social, business and networking bedrock of official Washington. Essentially, the couple used the mixed martial arts approach to upward mobility in a town that still cherishes the Marquess of Queensberry rules. And it looks like the town will be spluttering about it for quite some time.
 ''Washington is a small 'c' conservative kind of society, in which people are aware of the traditions and boundaries of appropriate behavior,'' said Wayne Berman, a Republican lobbyist. ''It's a city about rules, about conventions and if there's no keg at the party, it doesn't get crashed.'' 
 Of course, if the Salahis had slipped past the bouncers at, say, P. Diddy's birthday bash and then posted the evidence online, the feat would never have been noticed. But a magnetometer is not simply a velvet rope that beeps, and just because Washington has long been called Hollywood for ugly people doesn't mean that what works in Hollywood -- or New York, or anywhere else, for that matter -- will work in Washington.
 Any number of social strategies that succeed elsewhere will fail catastrophically here. Like feigned closeness. In Hollywood, it's understood that when an agent says, ''Tom is looking to take his career in a new direction,'' the agent might never have met Tom Cruise, let alone know him well enough to call him by his first name. In Washington, there are legions of people who don't even use the first or last name of the people who employ them.
 ''When I worked for Al Gore, I didn't call him 'Al' or even 'Mr. Gore,' '' says Chris Lehane, a former spokesman for the ex-vice president. ''He was Mr. Vice President. Even now I call him Mr. Vice President. There's an element of decorum and formality in Washington, that I think stems from the fact that these are elected officials. And I think the Salahi incident rattled that sense of decorum.''
 When Ms. Salahi sidled up to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., she was faking a friendship she didn't have. She was also cutting ahead of thousands of people who spend years trying to win entry into gatherings of Washington's elite.
 ''At most parties in New York or Los Angeles, a bouncer will make a snap decision about whether to let you in depending on your looks or some shtick that that sets you apart,'' says Juleanna Glover, a Washington hostess and a founder of the Ashcroft Group, a legal and consulting firm. ''In Washington, there are no snap decisions. It's a lifetime of wise decisions that make it so that you receive a state dinner invitation.'' 
 At bottom, Washington's social economy is based on a currency all its own: power and the proximity to power. Unlike the currency of Manhattan (money) and the currency of Los Angeles (celebrity and or the ability to green light a project), the legal tender of the capital has more impact when displayed with a minimum of ostentation. 
 Consider the power wall, that collection of office photos of the subject in a chummy embrace with a president, a prime minister or some other V.I.P. A lot of power walls emphasize quantity, but the true influence maestros in the city understand that the smaller your power wall, the more power it conveys.
 James Healey, a former administrative aide to Dan Rostenkowski, who for a time was the House Ways and Means Committee chairman, has just two photos in his office at Prime Policy Group, a lobbying firm. One is a shot of his former boss, emblazoned with the words, ''To Jim, who started the engine and made the wheels turn.'' The other shows Mr. Healey and Tip O'Neill, a former speaker of the House. It reads, ''We had some really good times, didn't we?''.
 Mr. Healey said, ''It shows I've got some history here.''
 When the Salahis put their collection of digital snaps of the state dinner on Facebook, they flouted all the unwritten rules of power-wall etiquette. (Including a new one that nobody had thought to mention: Don't put your power wall on Facebook.) As an enhancer of prestige, these photographic menageries always target a certain audience -- constituents in the case of politicians, potential clients in the case of lobbyists. It tells those audiences, ''I know how to get things done.''
 But by putting their photos online, the Salahis weren't taking aim at anyone, unless you consider the entire planet their target audience. 
 Equally offensive to local sensibilities, by draping herself on local luminaries, Ms. Salahi turned the city's eminences into red-carpet, flash-bulb fodder. That's different from the traditional grip-and-grin line at White House holiday parties, a formal ritual overseen by staff members and memorialized by an official photographer.
 ''Washington has its own version of a celebrity-driven culture, but these people are unattractive and lack charisma so what makes them celebrities is their substance,'' says Eli Attie, a former White House speech writer in the Clinton administration and now a writer and producer for ''House,'' the Fox television show. ''If you drain that from the interaction, it doesn't have a point any more. You just have a photo of you and the vice president, and anyone willing to give $500 to the Democratic party and wait three hours on a tarmac in Kansas City can have that.''
 The Salahis are also eliciting gasps in Washington by embracing fame with unambivalent gusto. That's pure Los Angeles, a place where there is very little downside to showing up at a party, or on any blog or gossip page. In Hollywood, famous people gravitate toward each other simply because they hope that by huddling up, their odds of being photographed multiply. In Washington, notoriety can be hazardous to your career and there are dozens of wise men and aides de camp with reputations built, in part, on their near invisibility.
 In short, the Salahis are the kind of spectacle that Washington is ill equipped to appreciate, other than as a tale of comeuppance.
 It doesn't seem to matter that the couple were never a threat. Nor does it seem to matter that security at the next state dinner will obviously be so tight that anyone who receives an invitation ought to leave the moment it arrives in the mail, because they're going to have their IDs checked and retinas scanned for a good long time.
 Nor does it matter that the Salahis are now struggling with a fate so rich with irony it seems like something O. Henry scripted: A couple besotted with fame and media attention finally wins both, but by doing so lands in so much trouble that when every TV show in the country begs them to come on the air and blab, they have to say no.
 O.K., they accept one, the ''Today'' show. But that's it. To every other invitation -- yes, authentic invitations -- they must decline.
 Seriously, Washington, think about how much that has to hurt the Salahis. Now, is that not punishment enough?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MOVE AWAY: Michaele Salahi getting too familiar with the vice president, shown at a hearing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E1)
CONNECTION FAILED Tareq and Michaele Salahi put their photographs on Facebook, a no-no. The proper way to greet the powerful is from a respectful distance, above right, the way senators greeted Vice President Biden in the Senate building.
 PRIVATE WALL: A display of photographs in Senator Edward M. Kennedy's office is an example of what is considered appropriate for a those in power in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS (FACEBOOK PAGE), STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES (OLD SENATE CHAMBER), LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (KENNEDY OFFICE) (pg.E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LOBBYING (72%); MARTIAL ARTS (55%)

PERSON: AL GORE (77%); TED KENNEDY (72%); JOE BIDEN (57%); TOM CRUISE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



307 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Volkswagen Expands With Stake In Suzuki

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI and BETTINA WASSENER; Chris V. Nicholson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Volkswagen announced on Wednesday that it would buy a 20 percent stake in Suzuki Motor of Japan for $2.5 billion, another step in the German giant's aggressive bid to become the world's biggest automaker. 
 The alliance would create a formidable new force in the global car industry by allowing Volkswagen, Europe's biggest carmaker, to tap Suzuki's strengths in small cars and its dominance in a fast-growing Indian market. It is also the latest in a flurry of realignments and alliances in the auto industry, which has been battered by falling demand in the United States and Europe and is facing stricter environmental standards in many markets.
 ''In partnership with Suzuki, the Volkswagen group can take a big step forward in the compact car segment, particularly in the emerging markets in Asia,'' Volkswagen's chief executive, Martin Winterkorn, told reporters. ''In turn, Suzuki can benefit from our experience with efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles.
 ''In eight to 10 years from now, we want to become No. 1 in the world. I believe we will be able to accelerate that with the cooperation with Suzuki.''
 The deal is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to close in January. Volkswagen will buy 19.9 percent of Suzuki's issued shares for 222.5 billion yen ($2.5 billion). Suzuki will invest up to half of that amount received from Volkswagen into shares of Volkswagen.
 Shares of Suzuki rose 3.5 percent in Tokyo on Wednesday on reports of the deal. Volkswagen rose 2.3 percent in Germany.
 Many manufacturers are eager to raise their profile in Asia's fastest-growing countries -- notably China and India -- in a bid to tap soaring demand there.
 Last week, PSA Peugeot Citroen of France and Mitsubishi Motors of Japan said they were exploring deeper ties, which had so far been limited to a project-based partnership.
 General Motors and the Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation of China said last week that they would make small cars and vehicles in India, building on a successful 12-year Chinese partnership. Another longstanding alliance between Renault of France and Nissan Motor of Japan has led to some success in developing low-emissions vehicles.
 But it has been Volkswagen that has weathered the global recession better than many of its counterparts, thanks to its big exposure to dynamic emerging markets like China and Brazil; the company is now taking bold steps to buttress its world standing.
 The German automaker -- with 10 brands under its wing including Audi, Skoda, Seat and now Porsche -- sold 3.265 million vehicles in the first half of 2009, just behind Toyota's sales of 3.564 million. Suzuki sold about 1.15 million vehicles in the same period. A combined Volkswagen and Suzuki would have global sales numbers above Toyota's.
 In October, Volkswagen announced that it would acquire a 49.9 percent stake in Porsche for about 3.9 billion euros ($5.7 billion), the first step in combining the two.
 Analysts said that through Suzuki, Volkswagen could increase its presence in the growth markets of India and Southeast Asia, as well as expand its production line in compact cars.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); NEW ISSUES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); RECESSION (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (69%); APPROVALS (66%); EXECUTIVES (53%)

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (95%); VOLKSWAGEN FINANCIAL SERVICES AG (85%); PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (82%); SHANGHAI AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY CORP (63%); SUZUKI MOTOR CORP (58%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (53%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: VOW3 (FRA) (95%); VKW (LSE) (95%); UG (PAR) (82%); 7269 (TSE) (58%); 7211 (TSE) (53%); 7201 (TSE) (52%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (85%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (85%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) EAST CHINA (79%) JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); GERMANY (93%); INDIA (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



308 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: A Good Fight

 BODY:
President Obama's proposals for pump-priming the job market are a welcome, if belated, reminder that the goal of government efforts to stabilize the economy must be to put more Americans back to work. 
 In a speech on Tuesday, Mr. Obama outlined a sensible list of programs that could be rolled out in coming months. But we fear his refusal to attach a price tag means that he is still not ready to do full battle with Congressional Republicans (and some Democrats) who have vowed to block any additional stimulus spending. To work, this effort needs real money behind it. 
 More than seven million jobs have been eliminated since the recession started, and today more than 15 million Americans are out of work. Most economists still expect joblessness to get worse before it gets better. 
 The president's package could provide a substantial boost to jobs, but only if it gets sufficient money. Proposals by Democrats in the House that could provide $150 billion for jobs plus $100 billion to extend unemployment insurance amount to a bare minimum of what is needed. 
 Mr. Obama proposed asking Congress for $50 billion next year (the only program with a price attached) for additional investments in public works, which would put large numbers of people to work. He called for more incentives for investment in energy efficiency, including rebates for consumers who retrofit their homes. And he proposed giving small businesses cheap loans and an array of tax breaks to encourage investment and hiring.
 Unfortunately, he made only a passing reference to the idea of giving more assistance to cash-strapped state and local governments, and extending unemployment insurance. Administration officials suggest that money could be provided through other initiatives, but Congressional Republicans are especially opposed. We hope this does not mean that the White House is pulling its punches on what could be the best big ideas to encourage job creation, assist the jobless and stimulate the economy. 
 We, too, are concerned about the size of the deficit. But creating jobs and ensuring that the incipient economic recovery does not stall, are more important right now. And, as Mr. Obama pointed out, the bank bailout is expected to cost $200 billion less than earlier estimates, which opens space in the budget. 
 Mr. Obama rightly called the apparent conflict between stimulating job creation and reducing the fiscal deficit ''a false choice.'' The budget gap cannot be closed in a sustainable fashion without first achieving robust job growth. He also criticized Republicans who eagerly championed budget-busting tax cuts under President George W. Bush, only to pose as deficit hawks now. 
 There is other hypocrisy to be highlighted. A Congress that agreed to spend hundreds of billions to rescue enormous financial institutions should be willing to spend far less to put Americans back to work. The president can win this argument on the merits of economic soundness and fairness. But he must be willing to fight.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (72%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (67%); BANK FAILURES (60%); SALES REBATES (56%); INFRASTRUCTURE (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



309 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: A Testy Exchange Over Jobs Proposals

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As diplomats might say of a meeting between rivals that is just short of undiplomatic, President Obama and Congressional Republican leaders had a full and frank discussion at the White House on Wednesday when they met to discuss how to create more jobs.
 The 90-minute session, while described by both sides as cordial over all, was a bit testy at times. Mr. Obama and the Republicans aired their philosophical differences over whether the government should keep spending money for stimulus measures to spur employers to hire, as Democrats favor and the Republicans oppose. 
 The meeting came on a day when the House voted to extend $31 billion in tax cuts for businesses and individuals, while the Treasury secretary announced an extension of the bailout program for banks, small businesses and troubled mortgage-holders.
 According to Republicans' reconstruction of the session, Mr. Obama started it. 
 In opening remarks, they said, the president, who campaigned on a pledge of bipartisanship, suggested that Republicans, by their refusal to work with him, ''seem to be almost rooting against recovery'' and for high unemployment in an effort to make gains against Democrats in the midterm elections next year. 
 Minutes later, the House Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, handed Mr. Obama a letter and a copy of what the House minority calls its no-cost jobs plan calling for no tax increases, new trade agreements and fewer regulations. (Mr. Obama had already read it, and later said he disagreed with some ideas and would talk with Republicans about others.)
 Then Mr. Boehner shot back at Mr. Obama. ''Mr. President, we do a lot of politics in this town but we are committed to working together in areas where we agree to get the American people back to work,'' he said.
 Administration aides did not dispute the Republicans' account, but said the meeting was never confrontational and in fact was a constructive exchange of views.
 ''I think politics has clearly played a role'' in their united opposition to the economic recovery plan, the White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs, told reporters afterward. 
 Mr. Gibbs added that the president's main proposals this week -- for business tax breaks and infrastructure projects --have typically received bipartisan support in Congress. 
 Mark Zandi, the economist who formerly advised Senator John McCain, Mr. Obama's Republican rival in the 2008 election, has vouched for the effectiveness of the stimulus policies, Mr. Gibbs added.
 Republican lawmakers said they told Mr. Obama that his ambitious agenda of changes in health care, financial regulation and energy policies was unnerving many employers and causing ''a hiring freeze,'' as Mr. Boehner put it. 
 When Representative Dave Camp, a Republican from Michigan, called it ''a job-killing agenda,'' the president complained that Republicans were ''trying to scare the American people'' about his proposals. More than once, he challenged them to produce an economist who shares their idea that the government should cut spending before the economy has fully recovered. ''We will address deficits next year,'' he said.
 Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, said he did not see the president's opening remarks or others as unduly political.
 ''He went around the table and everyone who was there got to say their piece,'' said Mr. Gregg, who initially accepted a cabinet post but decided to remain in the Senate, where he has often been critical of the administration. 
 ''A couple people made fairly strong statements,'' he added, ''and the president responded in a very cordial and thoughtful way.'' 
 The president's pique at Republicans was evident before Wednesday's meeting, after 10 months in which they have opposed all of his major initiatives to address the problems he inherited. In his speech on Tuesday at the Brookings Institution outlining his latest economic recovery plans, Mr. Obama reviewed administration actions, said they had helped rekindle growth, and said that Republicans had basically stayed on the sidelines.
 ''We were forced to take those steps largely without the help of an opposition party, which, unfortunately, after having presided over the decision-making that had led to the crisis, decided to hand it over to others to solve,'' he said in his address.
 Despite persistent high unemployment, the president and his aides lately have been buoyed by nonpartisan assessments that administration policies -- chiefly the stimulus plan and the financial bailout program -- are working, if not so well as originally advertised.
 An independent five-member panel that Congress created to oversee the $700 billion bailout program issued a year-end report on Wednesday. It concluded that despite lingering problems, the program ''can be credited with stopping an economic panic.''
 Also on Wednesday, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, told Congress that he was extending the Troubled Asset Relief Program beyond its Dec. 31 expiration date, until Oct. 3. The law that created the program in 2008, at the end of the Bush administration during the worst days of the financial free fall, empowered the Treasury secretary to extend it if needed.
 ''We want to see the capital base of our financial system return to private hands as quickly as possible,'' Mr. Geithner wrote to Congressional leaders. But, he said, ''History suggests that exiting prematurely from policies designed to contain a financial crisis can significantly prolong an economic downturn.''
 Mr. Geithner said the Treasury probably would not make more loans to banks, barring another crisis. Instead, he said, the program would be used to help troubled community banks, small businesses and homeowners.
 Mr. Geithner also signaled to Congress that it could rescind up to $150 billion of the $700 billion lending authority, for ''savings'' to offset the costs of the emerging jobs bill. He wrote that Treasury did not expect to lend more than $550 billion ultimately.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama at the White House on Wednesday. (pg.B1)
 Representative Steny Hoyer, left, Representative John Boehner, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, President Obama and Senator Harry Reid in talks Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (65%); BANK FAILURES (54%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); HARRY REID (58%); STENY HOYER (58%); DAVE CAMP (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2009



310 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Bone Drugs Taken by Some Women May Lower Breast Cancer Risk, Studies Say

BYLINE: By RONI CARYN RABIN

 BODY:
Drugs already taken by millions of healthy older women to prevent bone loss and broken hips may also protect them from breast cancer, according to two observational studies that found that women taking oral bisphosphonates developed about a third fewer breast cancers than other women.
 The drugs are in the class of medications that includes the brand name drug Fosamax, now available generically as alendronate sodium. 
 The findings, presented Thursday at a scientific conference, are from a retrospective analysis of data from the Women's Health Initiative, a federal study, and a separate Israeli observational study of several thousand postmenopausal women. 
 Neither study was a randomized clinical trial, and several top cancer doctors expressed skepticism about the findings, saying they prove only an association and may reflect the fact that women with bone problems who are most likely to take the medications have a lower breast cancer risk to begin with.
 The research generated excitement at the conference, the annual San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, even before the official presentations on Thursday, because unlike other drugs that can be used prophylactically to prevent breast cancer, oral bisphosphonates are already widely used and do not cause hot flashes.
 There was also a hint in the studies that the drugs might have a particular impact on curbing the kinds of tumors that are the most difficult to treat: those that are not fueled by estrogen.
 ''With tamoxifen and raloxifene, we have drugs that reduce estrogen receptor-positive tumors, but we've never had anything worth anything that prevented estrogen receptor-negative tumors,'' said Dr. Gabriel N. Hortobagyi, who directs the breast cancer research program at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center.
 But Dr. Hortobagyi said randomized controlled clinical trials were needed to prove the drugs have an effect, adding, ''These are provocative data, but certainly not compelling, and not definitive.''
 Other breast cancer experts agreed. ''If in fact you have osteoporosis and you're taking these drugs, it's possible there is an added benefit,'' said Dr. Eric P. Winer, a breast cancer specialist at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. ''But at the moment, I don't think these studies should be used as a reason to take a bisphosphonate to prevent breast cancer. As with all drugs, there are side effects and risks.''
 About 10 million Americans have osteoporosis, many of them women. Last year more than 45 million prescriptions for oral bisphosphonates were filled in the United States, generating over $4.9 billion in sales, according to IMS Health, a health care information and consulting company. The drugs have been associated with a rare but very serious side effect: bone death, or osteonecrosis, of the jaw, in which part of the jawbone dies and becomes exposed.
 The new research included an analysis of data from the Women's Health Initiative, which included 151,592 postmenopausal women followed on average for 7.8 years, among them 2,216 who happened to be taking oral bisphosphonates at the beginning of the study.
 There were 3.29 cancers per 1,000 women taking the drugs over the course of a year, compared with 4.38 cancers per 1,000 women not taking the drugs. After adjusting for different risk factors among those who were or were not taking the drugs, the analysis determined there were 32 percent fewer new breast cancers among users of oral bisphosphonates.
 Dr. Rowan T. Chlebowski, the study's author and a researcher at Harbor-U.C.L.A. Medical Center, said the drugs might have toxic effects on tumor cells or affect pathways that disrupt cell proliferation.
 The second set of findings comes from a continuing population-based case-control study of 4,575 postmenopausal women in Israel that used interviews and pharmacy records to determine whether oral bisphosphonates were used before a cancer diagnosis. It found that women who used the drugs for over a year had a 29 percent relative reduction in risk for breast cancer, and that tumors that developed among users were more likely to be estrogen receptor-positive. 
 ''We're reporting an association,'' said the study author, Dr. Gad Rennert of the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology. ''If the story is right and true -- and I'll repeat this 100 times, because in science you never know, I think it is but I can't guarantee it -- it's quite meaningful.''
 Dr. Rennert said the research was bolstered by a study published in The New England Journal of Medicine this year that reported that premenopausal breast cancer patients who had infusions of a bone-loss drug called zoledronic acid were a third less likely to have a recurrence and metastases than women who did not get it. Users of the drug were also less likely to develop a new cancer in the opposite breast.
 Bisphosphonates are already widely used in the management of breast cancer patients to counter bone loss associated with hormonal therapy and to decrease pain and bone complications in advanced cancer. Recent reports have suggested that the drugs' effects on bone appear to inhibit the spread of cancer to the bone and improve survival.
 But experts warn there is ample reason for caution in interpreting the new studies. Older women who take oral bisphosphonates generally do so because they have low bone mineral density. But women with that condition may be at lower risk for developing breast cancer in the first place; their bone problems are believed to stem from lower estrogen levels, and breast cancer risk increases with higher lifelong exposure to estrogen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BREAST CANCER (94%); CANCER (93%); OSTEOPOROSIS (92%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (92%); MENOPAUSE (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); WOMEN (90%); ONCOLOGY (89%); BONE FRACTURES (89%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (79%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (79%); CANCER DRUGS (79%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); DENTAL MOUTH & JAW DISORDERS (50%)

COMPANY: DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE INC (63%); M D ANDERSON CANCER CENTER (53%); IMS HEALTH INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (75%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%) TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



311 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Boothe Knows His Role, No Matter the Outfit

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

 BODY:
It is customary for Santa Claus and his many impersonators to address children around Christmas with a hearty ''Ho-ho-ho!''
 But when Kevin Boothe of the Giants played the role at a party for foster children this week, he dealt with adolescents who were a little too hip for that. So Boothe improvised.
 ''Yo-yo-yo!'' Boothe said repeatedly as he signed autographs and passed out shirts, hats, footballs and other gifts. He did this for more than an hour and eventually had to lower his white beard. 
 ''It's hot in that suit,'' Boothe said. ''But it's for a good cause. Hundreds of kids come out. It's good to pass out gifts and see their faces. In this tough time economically, you provide a little bit of cheer.''
 Boothe has had a pretty good week, generating all sorts of cheer and cheers.
 Before working the annual Jingle Jam party on Monday, Boothe replaced Chris Snee at right guard after Snee injured his knee during a 31-24 victory against the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday.
 Snee returned to practice Thursday after missing Wednesday's workout, but Boothe will be available Sunday night when the Giants host the Philadelphia Eagles. If Boothe has to play, quarterback Eli Manning approves.
 ''Kevin played well,'' Manning said. ''He's a smart guy. He has a good grasp of the offense. He makes good decisions and does the right things.''
 Coach Tom Coughlin described Boothe as ''a student of the game.'' People often cite Boothe's intelligence; he is a Cornell graduate with a degree in hotel administration.
 Cornell, like other Ivy League universities, is not known for turning out many professional sports stars. But it has produced a few. Boothe said he had met Ed Marinaro, Cornell's 1971 Heisman Trophy finalist, and knew of Ken Dryden, the goalie who led Cornell to the 1967 N.C.A.A. title and won six Stanley Cup titles with the Montreal Canadiens. Dryden is also a member of the Hockey Hall of Fame in Toronto and of the Canadian Parliament in Ottawa.
 ''I have not met him, but I know he's big-time in Canada,'' Boothe said.
 Boothe began his career in Oakland as a sixth-round draft choice in 2006. He started 14 games as a rookie but was waived by the Raiders at the start of the 2007 season after a coaching change.
 ''It was definitely humbling,'' Boothe said. ''It was natural to be a little discouraged. It was the first time in my professional, I guess the first time in my whole athletic career, where, basically, I was told I wasn't good enough or not wanted.''
 Boothe was unemployed for only a day before the Giants picked him up as a backup during what became their Super Bowl championship season.
 ''I was very fortunate,'' Boothe said. ''It was a shock, but all those things kind of worked out for the best. I call it perfect timing.''
 Boothe can play center, guard or tackle and on special teams. He is 6 feet 5 inches and 315 pounds with a roundish physique that is ideal for playing the offensive line or Santa Claus.
 Najlah Feanny Hicks, the president and a co-founder of the Heart Gallery of New Jersey, said it was the second year that Boothe had played Kris Kringle.
 ''He's the man,'' she said. ''His glasses were falling down and the beard and the whole nine yards. What a stand-up guy. He answered every kid's question.''
 Hicks said Boothe dealt with a particularly vulnerable group of foster children because many in that age group leave foster homes and group homes in a few years and become homeless.
 ''Kevin talked to them, telling them, 'You can be somebody, you're not alone in this world, here, let me sign your shirt,' '' Hicks said. ''That dude waited until every kid walked through his line.''
 Boothe is part of a different sort of line, one that will try to prevent any Eagles from walking or running or jumping through a veteran offensive unit.
 Philadelphia and Dallas are tied for first place in the National Football Conference East at 8-4, and the Giants are a game behind at 7-5. ''A great team and a great defense,'' Boothe said of the Eagles. ''It's a big game.''
 The offensive line's streak of 38 starts together as a five-man group ended on Oct. 25, when Kareem McKenzie could not play with a groin injury. William Beatty replaced him at tackle.
 The ongoing individual toll could be seen late last Sunday when Snee, after the game, wore only a T-shirt and shorts while walking gingerly through a cold corridor at Giants Stadium. He was greeted by his wife, Kate, who is Coughlin's daughter. She hugged him and they walked arm in arm toward a first-aid room. 
 ''I know Chris is a tough guy,'' Boothe said. ''I expect him to be out there. But if there's some reason he can't be, I'm ready to contribute.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kevin Boothe, a reserve lineman for the Giants, put his 315 pounds to good use when he recently sat in for Santa Claus.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL SPINELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JERRY PINKUS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (87%); SPORTS (87%); ICE HOCKEY (86%); CELEBRITIES (76%); FOSTER CARE (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS (55%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (77%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (72%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%) ONTARIO, CANADA (77%); QUEBEC, CANADA (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (59%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (54%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



312 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: British Bank Holds Steady On Rates and Bond Plan

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The Bank of England kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged on Thursday and decided to stick to its program of buying government bonds, tacit acknowledgement that signs of a recovery remained faint. 
 The central bank kept the interest rate at 0.5 percent, a record low. The bank has already spent about $:185 billion to buy debt in order to stimulate the credit market and can spend an additional $:15 billion (for a total of $325 billion) as part of the program. 
 ''There really is little left for the Bank of England to do other than wait for the recovery to kick in,'' Peter Dixon, an analyst at Commerzbank in London, said. He expects the Bank of England to halt asset purchases in February.
 The Bank of England governor, Mervyn King, said earlier that he had an ''open mind'' about whether to expand the program because of concerns that halting the purchases too early could hurt a recovery. On Thursday, the central bank indicated that it would keep the program unchanged until at least February.
 The bank expanded the asset purchasing plan last month for a third time after the British economy continued to shrink in the third quarter. The chancellor of the Exchequer, Alistair Darling, repeated Wednesday that he expected the economy to start growing again ''by the turn of this year'' but he warned of complacency and added that ''we must continue to support the economy until recovery is established.''
 In contrast, some other countries have already started to scale back emergency stimulus packages. Switzerland's central bank said Thursday that it would stop buying corporate bonds. The European central bank and the Federal Reserve previously announced plans to wind down emergency stimulus.
 The pound rose against the dollar on Thursday after the decisions on the interest rate and asset purchasing program, which were widely expected. A relatively weak pound throughout this year had helped to attract foreign investment and helped British firms to sell products abroad, easing some effects of the recession. 
 While some recent economic data indicated that Britain's economy might have stopped shrinking in the last month, concerns among investors about the country's large budget deficit remained. Britain plans to issue a record amount of government debt this fiscal year to help its stretched finances. 
 The government announced some tax increases Wednesday, including a levy on bankers' bonuses, but less than a year before a general election, it did not identify areas for spending cuts necessary to meet its pledge to half the budget deficit in four years.
 A ratings agency, Moody's Investors Service, said this week that the public finances of both the United States and Britain were testing the boundaries of their credit ratings. 
 Ireland's government announced Wednesday that it would cut pay for teachers, nurses and police officers as part of a plan to reduce the budget deficit to 2.9 percent of gross domestic product, from 11.7 percent, by 2014.
 Also on Thursday, the South Korean central bank left its key rate unchanged at 2 percent, while Iceland cut its key rate to 10 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England, which is trying to assist a faint recovery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); INWARD INVESTMENT (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%)

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK AG (90%); BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (90%); CBK (FRA) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%)

PERSON: ALISTAIR DARLING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



313 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: In Birthplace of Local Food, Fish Imports Take Over the Menu

BYLINE: By KATHERINE ELLISON

 BODY:
Tadich Grill, San Francisco's oldest seafood restaurant, now serves farmed salmon flown in from Scotland. Sam's Grill & Seafood, which also dates to the Gold Rush, features shrimp from the Gulf of Mexico and Alaskan halibut.
 The San Francisco region is where the locavore movement got its name. And decades before restaurants like Chez Panisse in Berkeley were recommending their local leeks, the establishments near San Francisco's wharves took pride in their fresh, local sand dabs and petrale.
 These days, fish flown in from around the world is more likely to be on offer. The change began gradually, but has recently sped up. Data from the Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission, a federal advisory group, reveal the cumulative effect: a 71 percent drop in commercial fishing revenue along the north-central California coast since 1990. 
 The effects are everywhere, seen in the number of idle fishermen or those who have left the profession altogether -- membership in the Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen's Associations is down by two-thirds in 15 years -- and the fish markets filled with Vietnamese catfish and Mexican spiny lobster. 
 Fish from local bays has been ''one of the last local foods to go,'' said Jessica Prentice, a Berkeley chef known for coining the word ''locavore.'' She added: ''Seafood was one of the few things, well into the industrial age, that people associated with place. If you're on a particular coast, or bay, or lake, you typically want to eat the seafood that's fresh and local.'' These days in the Bay Area, that means Dungeness crab in the winter and precious little else.
 With beloved local petrale scarce for the past three months, Andrew Carvalho, the head chef at Sam's, has had to make do with sea bream from Greece.
 Not long ago, said Larry Collins, a San Francisco hook-and-line fisherman, ''we fished salmon in the summertime, crab in the wintertime and rock cod whenever we needed to make the mortgage. Now we fish crab in the wintertime and scramble in the summertime.''
 San Francisco's situation is part of a national phenomenon. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration reported last year that more than three-fourths of the fish Americans eat comes from other countries, mostly China. Yet the trend has special resonance around San Francisco. Robert E. Ross, executive director of the California Fisheries and Seafood Institute, a trade group, estimated that Bay Area residents eat, on average, about double the amount of fish consumed annually by most other Americans.
 Many diners recall when local seafood -- salmon, red snapper, abalone -- was abundant. ''I think about it all the time,'' said Paul Johnson, the chief executive of the Monterey Fish Market, which supplies up to five million pounds of fish a year to 150 regional restaurants, including Chez Panisse and the Googleplex in Mountain View.
 ''In the fall when crab season comes around, and the boilers are steaming and all the guys are coming around with the fresh crabs, it just makes you sad to realize that this is the last major fishery we have left,'' he said. 
 The decline and fall of California's fisheries is an intricate tale. Eighteenth-century Pacific Coast explorers described a paradise teeming with life. ''No country is more abundant in fish and game of every description,'' said the French naval officer Jean-Francois de Galaup, who mapped the Pacific Coast in 1786. Two centuries of robust harvests followed, with occasional off-years.
 Now off-years are the norm. Still, the drop in local harvests doesn't precisely reflect the decline of fish in the sea. The confluence of expanding global markets and more assertive local controls has produced dramatic change. One fishery after another petered out in the wild, and regulators curtailed fishing to preserve species. As with other environmental problems, every person with a stake in the Bay Area's seafood decline has a villain of choice. 
 Salmon fishermen tend to blame the decline on inland water users, like farms and developers, who, they say, diverted water needed for spawning new generations of fish. Scientists suggest that a warming ocean has put the fishes' food supply in the wrong place at the wrong time. Others blame mismanagement. Similar finger-pointing is evident around other wounded fisheries.
 Wild abalone was one of the first local seafoods to vanish, after state officials closed depleted fisheries in 1996. In 2002, trawling for rockfish -- the bottom-dweller often called ''red snapper'' and used in the spicy stew cioppino -- was barred on much of the Pacific Coast. In the past two years, fishing bans multiplied as salmon and herring grew scarce.
 In all cases, the regulators responded to evidence of sharp declines in local species. But many local fishermen, who have sustained staggering economic losses, feel the actions of state and federal officials have been excessive. 
 ''In California, we have the least exploited fisheries in the world, but the toughest regulations,'' complained Zeke Grader, executive director of the Pacific Coast Federation of Fishermen's Associations. At the Monterey Fish Market, Mr. Johnson's 30-year career has spanned the most dramatic downward shift in local supply. When he began, he said, he was importing only about 30 percent of his fish from outside of California. Now, he said, the figure is closer to 80 percent. 
 While industry insiders are all too aware of the change in Bay Area menus, diners may have been slow to grasp it. ''People still don't get it,'' said George Leonard, a marine biologist at the Santa Cruz office of the Ocean Conservancy, a Washington, D.C.-based nonprofit organization.
 ''Restaurants will go to great lengths to make it seem like the fish is local,'' he said. ''They'll advertise the 'fresh catch of the day,' and half the time, it's farmed fish from halfway around the world.''
 The illusion of fresh local fish became harder to maintain after a 2005 law obliged vendors to label wares by country of origin. This has combined with the trend to advertise the pedigree of foods, like the ''Bolinas black cod'' at Chez Panisse.
 CleanFish, a San Francisco-based supplier of ''sustainable seafood,'' boasts its wild and ''sustainably farmed'' fish, like the ''Carolina Mahi-Mahi'' and the Loch Duarte salmon featured at Tadich Grill. Yet its use of air-shipped and farmed fish rankles some environmentalists. ''When you put fresh fish in an airplane,'' Mr. Leonard said, ''all bets are off,'' 
 The Monterey Bay Aquarium includes all farmed fish on its ''red list'' of fish to be avoided, citing concerns like the discharge of waste and parasites from farms. The founder of CleanFish, Tim O'Shea, said this ignored differences among the farmers. 
 A few chefs, including Alice Waters of Chez Panisse, vigorously advocate serving local seafood whenever possible -- ''We collected our own mussels from a legal zone recently. Divine!'' Ms. Waters recounted in an e-mail message. Still, she occasionally resorts to ''sustainable'' shrimp from New Orleans.
 While the globalization of fish may seem unstoppable, some dream of San Francisco seafood's resurgence. Mr. Johnson of the Monterey Fish Market foresaw encouraging trends over the next few years, if federal strictures help rebuild rockfish populations. 
 Recently, environmental advocates took heart in the state's decision in August to protect 155 square miles of ocean, permanently banning professional fishing in reserves covering 11 percent of California coastal waters. 
 The decision, to take effect early next year, has prompted complaints from struggling fishermen, yet it is meant to preserve habitat crucial in rebuilding species like rockfish and abalone. 
 ''We can no longer treat the ocean and its fish and wildlife as an all-you-can eat buffet,'' said Kaitilin Gaffney, the Pacific ecosystem program director for the Ocean Conservancy. ''But the ocean is pretty resilient. If we allow nature to restore herself, she will.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: December 18, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in the Bay Area pages last Friday with an article about the increase in the amount of fish imported into the area misidentified a worker at the Monterey Fish Market wholesale office in San Francisco. His identity cannot be verified by The New York Times, but the worker is not Paul Johnson, the owner of Monterey Fish Market.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Johnson has worked at the Monterey Fish Market in San Francisco for 30 years and has witnessed a dramatic downward shift in the local supply of seafood.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Falling Revenues: The San Francisco area has seen a substantial drop in local fishing.(Source: Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); CRUSTACEANS (90%); FISHES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SEAFOOD (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (78%); AQUACULTURE (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING TRADE (78%); FISHERIES (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (75%); TRENDS (75%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (60%); FINFISH FISHING (58%); SHELLFISH FISHING (58%)

ORGANIZATION: PACIFIC STATES MARINE FISHERIES COMMISSION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); WEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



314 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW '30 SECONDS OFF AN INCH'; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: A Beating Heart of Social Import

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
There's a small, inspired exhibition cocooned inside ''30 Seconds Off an Inch,'' an exhibition of 60 disparate artworks by 42 artists at the Studio Museum in Harlem. Similarly, its catalog essay, while convoluted and sometimes sophomoric, takes a refreshingly visual, even formal approach to art that is usually admired exclusively for its political and social meanings. 
 But the whole thing feels extremely green. It is no surprise to learn that show and catalog both are the first major effort of a 33-year-old assistant curator, Naomi Beckwith, who came to the Studio Museum in 2007, after a two-year fellowship at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia. 
 Ms. Beckwith clearly has an eye for artworks and their presentation, which can't be said for all young curators. Her exhibition thoughtfully juxtaposes intriguing works by young or lesser-known black and multiethnic artists like Shinique Smith, Jabu Arnell, Rashawn Griffin, Jennie C. Jones, Clifford Owens, Akosua Adoma Owusu and Xaviera Simmons, among others. Ms. Beckwith deserves every encouragement, but she also could have used a lot more guidance and advice in the shaping of this project. 
 Her show, she writes, asks viewers to consider the ways in which social meaning is embedded formally within works of art. Her complaint is that too often the work of nonwhite artists is seen in terms of the creators' social milieu. If an artist is black, she writes, his art is automatically viewed ''as a commentary on black history'' or is assumed to ''originate from a black cultural tradition.'' 
 Ms. Beckwith seems to think that art is most effective when the connection runs the other way, and she's right: art can really only convey meanings extracted directly from it. These meanings may be traceable to the artist's milieu, whether social or political or even personal (unfortunately not much mentioned here), but they emanate from specific uses of specific materials, from what Ms. Beckwith calls ''the art form,'' as opposed to ''the art context.'' 
 Ms. Beckwith is gingerly broaching an often disparaged notion: the autonomy of the artwork. She thinks that the artists in ''30 Seconds'' achieve this autonomy by combining the tactics of two related tendencies. One is the postwar avant-garde of Fluxus, Gutai, Arte Povera and Brazilian Neo-Concretism -- with their emphasis on everyday materials, language, performance and ephemera. The other is the more purely idea-oriented Conceptual Art of the late 1960s and early '70s, including, she is careful to point out in the catalog, ''experimental work by black artists.'' 
 This idea seems credible enough at first, but becomes more myopic and exclusionary as Ms. Beckwith tries to nail it down. She also overlooks two recent shows related to hers: ''Double Consciousness: Black Conceptual Art Since 1970'' at the Contemporary Art Museum in Houston in 2005, and the excellent ''L.A. Object & David Hammons Body Prints,'' an exhibition at the Jack Tilton Gallery in 2006, about West Coast assemblage, its use by black artists like John Outterbridge (who is in the Studio Museum show) and its effect on the early work of David Hammons (also here), an elusive eminence of contemporary art.
 Despite the historic scope of the Studio Museum show, only four works date from before 2000, and three of those are by Mr. Hammons. History is a tantalizing perfume. (For example, there is the coincidence of little-known sculptures by Mr. Hammons and Chris Ofili, from 1978 and 1993, respectively, that consist primarily of varnished clumps of elephant dung.) But other influential older black artists -- Mr. Outterbridge, Charles Gaines and Maren Hassinger -- are represented by recent work, which doesn't seem quite fair, while Senga Nengudi is mentioned in the catalog but absent from the exhibition. 
 Another problem is familiarity: there are too many of the usual suspects who populate shows devoted to work by nonwhite artists. They include, I'm afraid, Mr. Hammons and Mr. Ofili, as well as Glenn Ligon, Nari Ward, Gary Simmons and William Pope.L. They may contribute to the show and its thesis, yet their presence also feels automatic, even tired. 
 The prevailing aesthetic here is a kind of Conceptual assemblage that is widely practiced by artists of all ethnic backgrounds these days. Is there a particular way that nonwhite artists use materials to communicate social and racial concerns among other meanings? Many works here make that case, to varying degrees, often with a little help from their titles, but meanings and references vary widely. 
 The range is especially clear in the show's most inspired moment, a display of three works in a downstairs gallery. Kori Newkirk's ''Untitled'' is a wire shopping-cart inset with squares of brightly colored plexiglass; the stained-glass effect turns it into a radiant, perambulating article of faith. But its impoverishment and improvised, beautifying ingenuity have more to do with class than race. Rashid Johnson exercises a similar economy in a large swath of paper spray-painted with the word ''Death'' in big gold letters, directing some deft Conceptual wordplay in a different direction. The work's title is ''Death Is Golden,'' a transposition that takes the mind from ''silence is golden'' to ''silence equals death,'' the 1980s rallying cry of AIDS activism. Demetrius Oliver's ''Asterism'' circles obliquely back to race. It consists of a soft-sided black suitcase filled with big chunks of high-luster anthracite coal and large, clear light bulbs. An asterism can be a constellation of stars, the starlike gleams of certain minerals or a group of asterisks -- which are, if you think about it, black stars. 
 Everything else here falls more or less within the parameters loosely described by these three works. Mr. Outterbridge's ''Portrait of Willie'' gets right to the point, brilliantly extracting multiple yet focused meanings from detritus. His strands of rusted iron washers and a small bouquet of dreadlocks conjure African art, a demeaned black stereotype (perhaps Willie Horton) and the breastplate of a revered warrior. 
 Leslie Hewitt's ''Untitled (Resist, Resist, Resist)'' places two identical black books with cast concrete pages askew on a larger white book. It suggests blacks united against whites but also a fusion of Malevich's Suprematist paintings of black-and-white squares, landmarks of early Modernism that were also a form of artistic resistance. 
 One of the most quietly poignant works is Edgar Arceneaux's untitled black-and-white photograph of a little metal grid sculpture placed on an outdoor chess board in a desolate playground, which resonates between life and art, imagination and deprivation, playful and oppressive geometries. And Michael Queenland's brilliant ''Untitled (Black Balloon Rock)'' -- nothing more than a dozen small smooth stones each inserted in a black balloon -- is a visceral batch of contradictions: earth and air, indestructible and fragile, bodily organs and excrement and skin. 
 I leave to you the equally rich contradictions of Nicole Miller's awkward, unsettling video ''The Conductor,'' in which a black man conducts an invisible orchestra without using his arms, which means mostly through facial expressions. The result evokes minstrelsy, silent movies, race relations and an almost frightening array of human emotions. Lasting only about seven minutes, it feels too long, which is part of the point.
 The show's opaque title comes from an old interview with Mr. Hammons in which he said that objects and structures built by white people have a telltale ''neatness.'' In those built by blacks, he said, ''everything is a 32nd of an inch off.'' It's a preposterous generalization, and not just because the measurement in question is so minute. But Ms. Beckwith recycles it, with adjustments, into a title that requires explanation and context -- something that she seemed determined to avoid in the artworks she selected for her flawed but promising exhibition. 
 ''30 Seconds Off an Inch'' continues through March 14 at the Studio Museum in Harlem, 144 West 125th Street; (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 30 Seconds Off an Inch: Kori Newkirk's ''Untitled,'' made with colored plexiglass, at the Studio Museum in Harlem.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KORI NEWKIRK)(C29)
Left, Michael Queenland's ''Untitled (Black Balloon Rock)'' (2005) and, right, John Outterbridge's ''Portrait of Willie''(2008) at Studio Museum in Harlem.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL QUEENLAND
 COURTESY OF MARTY AND REBECCA EISENBERG)(C32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); HISTORY (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



315 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Finds Support, and Questions, on Handling Bailout

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The oversight panel for the government's 14-month-old bailout program generally supported a decision by the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, to keep it alive nine more months, but challenged him on Thursday about some aspects of his management of the program. 
 In a quarterly appearance before the panel, Mr. Geithner was called upon to defend decisions to fully pay financial giants for their claims against the American International Group, to account for continuing troubles at small banks and businesses and to answer criticisms that the Treasury Department might be letting some big banks exit the program too soon. 
 Meanwhile, based on the Treasury's determination that the government will soon breach a $12.1 trillion limit for borrowing to cover expenses, Congress prepared to raise the debt limit by more than $1.8 trillion -- enough to avoid a similar vote in the 2010 election year.
 The hearing of the Congressional Oversight Panel came amid the release this week of three reports on the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. The panel's year-end assessment gave the relief program credit for helping to avert a financial collapse but raised some of the issues discussed Thursday.
 Separately on Thursday, the inspector general for the relief program reported that the Treasury was addressing criticism that information regarding the use of taxpayer funds was not transparent enough. The report also questioned a decision that allowed two large insurance companies, the Hartford Financial Services Group and the Lincoln National Corporation, to receive a combined $4.3 billion in bailout money intended for banks.
 And the Treasury's Office of Financial Stability on Thursday released a report, which Mr. Geithner had already disclosed, showing that the relief program's losses were likely to be a fraction of the $700 billion allotted, while the portion for banks was making a profit. The independent Government Accountability Office audited the report. 
 On Wednesday, Mr. Geithner announced that he was extending the $700 billion program, which was created at the height of the financial panic in 2008, to next Oct. 3. It had been scheduled to expire at the end of this year. 
 While big banks are mostly stabilized, he told the panel on Thursday, the program is needed to help reduce home foreclosures and for a new initiative to get capital to smaller banks so they, in turn, will lend money to the credit-starved small businesses that create most jobs.
 Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard Law School professor who heads the panel, pressed Mr. Geithner about the Treasury's record on stimulating credit from small banks. She noted that the department had started three programs within the overall relief effort to spur lending to small businesses ''and clearly has not gotten the job done.''
 ''What's going to be different now, Mr. Secretary?'' she asked.
 Mr. Geithner countered that the initiatives had helped. The problem, he said, is that smaller banks ''have been very reluctant to come and do business with the government.'' They fear they will be ''stigmatized'' as weak, he said, and that the government might later impose new restrictions.
 He said the administration would work with Congress to change the law ''to help deal with those basic concerns.''
 The panel's deputy chairman, Damon Silvers, a special counsel for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., raised concerns that some big banks might be getting out of the bailout program too soon because they are eager to escape restrictions on executives' pay. Bank of America recently repaid its $45 billion in bailout money, and Citigroup is exploring the possibility of raising billions through a share offering to do the same.
 ''Premature repayment when these banks are weak is bad for the country,'' Mr. Silvers said.
 Mr. Geithner replied: ''And we would not allow that or support it.'' 
 Because financial institutions must raise equity in the stock market to repay their government loans, he said, that is a test of those companies' strength since they would not be able to attract investors otherwise. 
 But Mr. Silvers pointed out that Bank of America had just raised $19 billion of its $45 billion in the markets. Mr. Geithner said he would provide more information on the bank's case later. 
 Several panel members questioned why the government had paid A.I.G's major business customers in full for their complicated transactions with the failed company -- dealing with them much like small depositors in a bankrupt bank. The counterparties included major institutions like Goldman Sachs that had also received bailout money.
 ''You are telling me that these counterparty obligations -- these financial instruments that are bought by very sophisticated parties -- are going to be treated effectively like deposits in checking accounts and savings accounts,'' Ms. Warren said.
 Mr. Geithner said, ''You either prevent default, because default would be cataclysmic, or you don't. And when you prevent default, you're doing so so they can meet their obligations to everyone they have contractual obligations to.''
 But Mr. Silvers suggested the counterparties could have been made to accept ''a negotiated haircut'' from their claims -- a criticism the relief program's inspector general had raised previously.
 Paul S. Atkins, a former Republican member of the Securities and Exchange Commission, was the one panelist at the hearing who opposed extending the relief. The administration and Congress are using the program as ''a blank check,'' he said, to finance additional stimulus spending and tax cuts. 
 While the program cannot directly pay for such measures, Democrats argue that newly identified savings can be counted for budgetary purposes as offsetting the costs of efforts to spur job creation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, at Thursday's meeting. He said he wanted to reduce home foreclosures and ease credit for small businesses.
 Elizabeth Warren, chairwoman of the panel, asked Mr. Geithner about the success of credit programs for small businesses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (92%); BAILOUTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); FORECLOSURE (75%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (74%); INSURANCE (64%); JOB CREATION (60%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); LINCOLN NATIONAL CORP (66%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); LNC (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (66%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



316 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Sachs Alters Its Bonus Policy to Quell Uproar

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Moving to quell the uproar over the return of big paydays on Wall Street, Goldman Sachs announced on Thursday that its top executives would forgo cash bonuses this year and that it would give shareholders a say in determining compensation. 
 With a resurgent Goldman set to award billions of dollars in bonuses -- a trove that could rival the record payouts of the bubble years -- the bank said that its 30 most-senior executives would be paid in the form of a special stock, rather than in cash. Goldman said that it would also let its shareholders vote on its executives' pay, although the decision would be nonbinding. 
 A year after Washington rescued the nation's financial industry with billions of taxpayer dollars, Goldman is enjoying one of the most profitable years in its 140-year history. Its bonanza -- fostered by its own government bailout, as well as the rescue of the broader financial system -- has angered the many ordinary Americans who are still waiting for an economic recovery. 
 Much of the resentment has been directed at Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, who after first staunchly defending the bank's outsize profits and pay, and then bristling at calls for restraint, apologized for mistakes that led to the financial crisis. 
 Whether Goldman's shareholders will contest its pay practices is uncertain. Goldman insists that it must pay its employees well to keep them from defecting to rivals. So far, it has set aside $16.7 billion to pay its workers this year, a figure that translates into roughly $700,000 an employee. Top producers will earn millions. 
 Goldman stockholders, who have been richly rewarded as the bank's share price soared roughly 82 percent this year, may be reluctant to challenge the bank's pay practices. Indeed, Goldman has reached out to big investors to make its case. 
 Mr. Blankfein, who declined a bonus last year, received a $53.4 million bonus in 2007, a Wall Street record. This year, he and other top executives will receive bonuses in the form of what Goldman called ''shares at risk,'' or stock that cannot be sold for five years and can be retracted if the executive does something reckless or risky that hurts the firm. 
 While Goldman will give shareholders a say on pay, the bank would not be required to bow to its investors wishes. Still, a vote against Goldman would be deeply embarrassing for the bank. 
 Thursday's developments underscore Goldman's quandary as Wall Street enters its annual bonus season and comes a day after the British chancellor of the Exchequer stunned London bankers with news that the government there would levy a windfall tax on bank bonuses. Other European leaders have also expressed support for taxing bonuses heavily. 
 While many big banks have recovered since the dark days of last autumn, Goldman has powered ahead in profitability. It earned $7.4 billion in the first nine months. But Goldman's initial insistence that it did not require a government rescue -- a position rejected by the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner -- has set Goldman apart from many of its industry peers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); BONUS PAY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BAILOUT BONUSES (78%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



317 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: A Retiring Life On the Beach In Nicaragua, Despite Risks

BYLINE: By ZACH WEISBERG

DATELINE: San Juan del Sur, Nicaragua 

 BODY:
Today, like every day, begins with a smoothie: a blend of pineapple, melon, banana, passion fruit, papaya, yogurt, nuts and pitaya, a Central American delicacy responsible for the bright magenta coloring of the drink in Bob Schmidt's hand.
 ''One of these will fill you up and keep you going through lunch,'' Mr. Schmidt, 63, said while setting aside a creased paperback and gazing out from his second story to a view of the Pacific Ocean. Surfers flitted along the surface of a neatly groomed groundswell 50 yards below his tiled-floor home, which might pass for a beachfront palace in Malibu but for the wooden plaque on the wall reading ''Bienvenidos a mi hogar'' (''Welcome to my home'') and the sporadic power outages typical of rural developing countries. 
 Mr. Schmidt and his wife, Sheri, 62, are among the estimated 3,000 foreign property owners in this country, which, starting in the early part of this decade, followed Costa Rica's lead as an affordable paradise for second- and retirement-home owners. When the Schmidts bought their property here in 2005, paying $200,000 for an oceanfront lot and spending about $80 per square foot in construction costs, the Sandinista leader Daniel Ortega had not yet reclaimed the presidency, and Nicaraguan real estate was booming; asking prices were selling prices.
 Much has changed since then. The global economy has tanked. Mr. Ortega has not only regained power, but also won a disputed ruling by the Nicaraguan Supreme Court in November that could enable him potentially to extend his reign; that and a series of unconvincing municipal elections have catapulted Nicaragua, Latin America's poorest country (the per capita gross domestic product was $1,123 in 2008, according to the United States State Department), back into the periphery of international concern.
 Mr. Schmidt takes another drink of his fruit shake. The tropical flavors, and the atmospheric intangibles of a Sunday morning on the white sands of Hacienda Iguana, one of Nicaragua's fastest-growing southern beach communities, help to make the world's worries seem very far away. 
 ''Once I saw this place and this beach, that just was it,'' said Mr. Schmidt, who is originally from Southern California but worked as a livestock farmer with his wife outside St. Paul for 36 years. The couple first bought a second home on the beach at Playa Hermosa, Costa Rica, in 2002 for $150,000, calling the impulse buy ''a total fluke,'' and migrated to Nicaragua after his wife's retirement in 2006. 
 ''By the time I was ready to retire, it had already gotten so touristic down there that we just wanted to go somewhere else,'' Ms. Schmidt said of Costa Rica. ''And Bob wanted to be on a surf break. So here we are.''
 Some might see an element of financial risk in the Schmidts' purchase of the sort of property that one segment of buyers view as an investment, but Mr. Schmidt said that he and his wife were not driven by the profit motive. ''We came down here really not as an investment per se,'' he said. ''It was more of a lifestyle change.'' Life at Hacienda Iguana, a gated development about 20 miles northwest of San Juan del Sur with 250 home lots and over 70 condos already built, moseys along at a paradisiacal, watch-dissolving pace. Tidal swings and sunsets mark the day's most important events.
 ''I think our buyers now are end users,'' said Zach Lunin, a co-founder of Aurora Beachfront Realty in San Juan del Sur. ''The people who are buying with us and investing here are people who want to spend time here. Bottom line is most of the people that we're seeing are not the flippers. Nicaragua is a heart buy for most people, not that it doesn't make sense on paper. But people come here and they fall in love with the country, and that's why they buy property.'' 
 Considering that Nicaragua scored an underwhelming 2.5 out of a possible 10 for honesty in the Worldwide Corruption Perception Index of 2009 (the United States was at 7.5, Canada at 8.7 and Mexico at 3.3) as tallied by Transparency International, the romance may include a few speed bumps. (''If you drive to Managua, it is very unlikely that you won't be pulled over,'' Mr. Schmidt said of the incessant traffic shakedowns and bribery attempts performed on gringos by police patrolling the roads.) And while Nicaragua's coming 2011 presidential election is a reminder of the country's political uncertainty, not all foreigners are so easily deterred. 
 ''Nicaragua kind of acts like a natural filter,'' Mr. Lunin said. ''It's not everybody who gets on a plane and says, 'Let's go down to Nicaragua,' whereas it is everybody who gets on a plane and goes to Costa Rica.''
 The impression that Nicaragua is inherently unstable has unquestionably slowed development, but it has also made an investment in ''the New Costa Rica,'' more affordable and appealing to the adventurous segment of aspiring second-home owners. In many cases the numbers support the gamble. In 2008 tourism brought in an estimated $944 million (nearly one-sixth of the G.D.P.), and it has grown by 8.2 percent in the past year, with almost 24 percent of visitors hailing from the United States. 
 Oceanfront lots in gated, rural communities like Hacienda Iguana are selling for around $250,000, and according to some real estate agents, prices have dropped as much as 40 percent in the last two years. 
 Unlike in many countries, property laws afford foreigners the same land rights as Nicaraguan citizens, and while the Coastal Law of 2009 prevents the purchase of land within 50 meters of the high tide line and oceanfront lots are eligible for purchase only if registered before a 1917 agrarian reform law, land acquisition in Nicaragua is a relatively straightforward process -- albeit with a few notable concerns.
 Because the Sandinista regime confiscated nearly 28,000 properties between 1979 and 1990 in the name of land redistribution, acquiring undisputed titles has become a central issue for foreign investors. ''Most of my clients want title insurance, and I recommend it to them, because it gives them added peace of mind,'' said Byron Mejia, a real estate lawyer in Managua. ''Whatever we miss, the title insurance company picks up, so we don't leave any stone uncovered. Sometimes if there's a problem with the title, you stop right there.''
 Aside from potential title disputes, aspiring second-home owners may have to consider the muddled process of constructing their getaways from afar. ''We've watched some of the people who have had to rely on somebody else to supervise,'' Ms. Schmidt said. ''It's a difficult process, and things aren't done the way you might think they would be done. You can't take anything for granted.''
 The ''out of sight ...'' principle applies not only to construction, but also to protecting and maintaining the asset, so hiring security and caretakers is essential. ''It's common sense,'' Mr. Mejia said. ''Let's say you have a home -- oceanfront property you visit three or four times a year. If you leave it unattended, it's like New York City. Someone's going to break in.''
 While there may be fewer potential buyers than at the height of the real estate boom, those still in the hunt say they are realistic about Nicaragua's political situation. ''I don't think we'll bury ourselves in research on how stable it is,'' said Charles Brooks, an insurance executive from Virginia who is considering the purchase of a lot in a development inland of Hacienda Iguana called Iguana Hills.
 ''I think we'll take a leapof faith,'' he said. ''It's money that's at risk, perhaps, but not any more risky than watching your 401k. And it's a lot more fun. There's truly an upside to it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE BEACH: Above, San Juan del Sur. At left, Bob and Sheri Schmidt, retirees from St. Paul, at their home in Hacienda Iguana. Upper left, a home in Balcones de Majagual, in the rainforest.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK RUDDY
ZACH WEISBERG)(C38)
 TRANSPLANTS: Jack See, at right, in his beachfront home at Hacienda Iguana. He and his wife, Patty, are from Idaho. Below, a road within the community.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK RUDDY)(C39) MAPS(C39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BEACHES (90%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); SURFING (75%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (70%); WATER SPORTS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); POWER FAILURES (68%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); ELECTIONS (63%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); CITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NICARAGUA (98%); COSTA RICA (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



318 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Decrease in Money Forces Cultural Institutions to Scramble

BYLINE: By KATIE FRETLAND

 BODY:
When Michelle Kranicke and her Zephyr Dance company started the year, they thought they would make it through the economic turmoil of 2009 with help from grants from the Illinois Arts Council.
 But the first grant of $4,990, which was supposed to show up in January, did not arrive until May because of the state's financial downturn.
After scraping by all spring in donated work space in the Bucktown neighborhood, Ms. Kranicke had to suspend payments to her dancers by July because another Illinois Arts Council grant was late. The dance company is now offering free admission to rehearsals in hopes of building an audience that might return for a performance. 
 ''Things are bleak,'' said Ms. Kranicke, a 47-year-old choreographer who founded the all-woman modern-dance troupe in 1989. ''Of course, the arts are always viewed as something extra or optional or that we can do without.'' 
 Across Illinois, arts and cultural institutions are suffering through one of the worst financing droughts in memory, and the year ahead looks even worse. 
 While the big museums can weather financial setbacks, most smaller institutions lack endowments to fall back on. Many have cut performance schedules, reduced staffs, budgeted less for art exhibitions and taken other austerity measures, said Terry Scrogum, executive director of the Illinois Arts Council. 
 Right now, the strategy for arts groups is to do ''everything they can to survive,'' Mr. Scrogum said, adding that decreases in government aid, foundation grants and individual contributions have created a perfect storm. 
 The state allocated the arts council $21.9 million in 2006. Its support dropped to $19.8 million in 2007, hovered at $15.2 million in 2008 and $16 million in 2009, and will drop to $7.5 million in 2010. 
 Chicago's leading museums are hard hit. A major provider of money, the Chicago Park District, has reduced grants by as much as 11 percent to the Museum of Science and Industry, Art Institute, Field Museum, Shedd Aquarium, Chicago History Museum, Adler Planetarium and the Museum of Contemporary Art. 
 Over all, the Park District is reducing its support to the 10 institutions by $3.5 million. The Museum of Science and Industry, the Art Institute and the Field Museum each face cuts of $763,760 in their grants, dropping their total allotment for the 2010 fiscal year to less than $6 million each. 
 Three smaller museums supported by the Park District -- the DuSable Museum of African American History, the National Museum of Mexican Art and Notebaert Nature Museum -- were largely spared. Marta Juaniza, the Park District spokeswoman, said those institutions did not have an endowment and worked with limited budgets. Their grants were reduced by more than a half-percent each. 
 The museums must trim their budgets even as attendance and the demand for programming and staff resources remain strong. Attendance at the 10 museums supported by the Park District is up 7 percent this year, according to Museums in the Park, a coalition of the Park District-supported museums. The Art Institute, which opened its modern wing this year, saw the largest increase in attendance
 ''All of us have had layoffs,'' said Gary Johnson, president of both Museums in the Park and the Chicago History Museum. ''All of us have had to use tools like freezing positions, freezing salaries, furlough days and deferring projects.''
 At the history museum, Mr. Johnson said he was considering options that included leaving vacant positions open, unpaid time off and possibly layoffs. Museums have depended on the subsidy from the Park District since 1903, he said.
 ''This is part of our DNA,'' he said. ''This is part of the way the museums in Chicago have grown up, being supported by the public through the Park District.''
 David Mosena, president of the Museum of Science and Industry, said the museum had reduced salaries by an average of 5 percent, imposed layoffs, cut back on energy use and planned to raise admission to $15 from $13 in January. Chicago residents pay a reduced fee.
 ''We have tightened our belt,'' Mr. Mosena said, adding that the Park District has had its own budget cut. ''It's called shared sacrifice.''
 Mr. Mosena said, however, that there was reason for optimism. Donations began to rise in the second part of 2009, and the museum's endowment, which was down 20 percent earlier in the year, has recouped some losses.
 Layoffs and other fiscal measures imposed by the big museums simply are not an option for many smaller cultural organizations. 
 At KidWorks Touring Theatre Company -- which performs in libraries and schools to teach children about multicultural tolerance, world peace and the environment -- resources are so thin that the artistic director, Andrea Salloum, writes, directs and acts in the shows, makes the costumes and does the laundry. As the one full-time person at the troupe, she, alone, is responsible for fund-raising.
 Ms. Salloum said the group needed new costumes, instruments, administrative help and money to plan new programs. 
 ''Without part-time help to write grants to get more money,'' she said, ''it is kind of a spinning cycle downward.''
 For now, at least, prospects are so poor that Ms. Salloum has stopped writing grant proposals.
 ''I was wasting my time,'' she said. ''It's been rejection after rejection.''
 The delays in Illinois Arts Council grants this year only add to the struggles of groups like Zephyr Dance, which waited for months to receive payments this year. The council sends vouchers to the state comptroller's office, which writes the checks, and the comptroller's office is just now paying on requests submitted in July, Mr. Scrogum said.
 Carol Knowles, the comptroller's spokeswoman, said the council requests joined the $4.5 billion in bills currently awaiting payment. Tight cash flow will continue as the state builds resources to begin repaying $2.25 billion in short-term loans that begin coming due next March. 
 At Zephyr Dance, tough economic conditions hinder the effort. Ms. Kranicke said she had gotten fewer invitations from performance venues, which she attributed to their wanting better-known groups.
 ''Presenters don't have a lot of money,'' she said. ''They need to make sure they are going to make some profit or at least break even. They will bring in a safer bet.'' 
 The troupe's modern dances reflect a female perspective. A new piece called ''The Trace of Her is Barely Visible'' plays with the idea of what Ms. Kranicke calls ''the erased voice,'' when people remain quiet when they would prefer to speak out. 
 ''The work we do requires some thought,'' Ms. Kranicke said. ''It's not mainstream. You're not going to see it on 'So You Think You Can Dance.' ''
 Despite the hardships, Ms. Kranicke said that as long as her group had music and an open space, Zephyr Dance would continue.
 ''That's the way it goes if you're in the arts,'' she said. ''You never think about not doing your work.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Museum of Science and Industry is among institutions taking a big hit in the financing they receive from the state and city.
 Andrea Salloum, artistic director of a touring theater company, directs, acts, makes costumes and does the laundry.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSe MORe/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (92%); DANCE COMPANIES (91%); DANCERS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (76%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); HISTORY (71%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (65%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



319 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 4146 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
THEATER
 Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater.
 Previews and Openings
 'DEAR EDWINA' Performances begin on Friday. Zina Goldrich and Marcy Heisler's musical is about a 13-year-old girl with a special talent for giving advice. DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20091210
 'THE GREAT RECESSION' In previews; opens on Thursday. The Bats perform one-acts by six of New York's leading young playwrights (including Will Eno, Sheila Callaghan and Thomas Bradshaw) that explore the impact of the economy. Flea Theater, 41 White Street, near Church Street, TriBeCa , (212) 352-3101, theflea.org.20091210
 'A LITTLE NIGHT MUSIC' In previews; opens on Sunday. Catherine Zeta-Jones and Angela Lansbury star in this London transfer of the Sondheim revival. Trevor Nunn directs (2:50). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.20091210 
 Broadway
 'BURN THE FLOOR' A nonstop exhibition of pop ballroom dancing, directed and choreographed by Jason Gilkison. A little tacky and vulgar, but would you want your steamy cha-chas and tangos any other way? (2:05). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)20091210
 'BYE BYE BIRDIE' Robert Longbottom's color-coded revival of this 1960 musical satire is a painful example of misapplied talent. The unlucky cast members include John Stamos, Gina Gershon and Bill Irwin (2:20). Henry Miller's Theater, 124 West 43rd Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)20091210
 'FELA!' This transporting musical biography of a Nigerian revolutionary of song doesn't so much tell a story as soak an audience to and through the skin with the style and sensibility called Afrobeat. There has never been anything on Broadway like Bill T. Jones's kinetic production, which stars the charismatic Sahr Ngaujah and Kevin Mambo (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'FINIAN'S RAINBOW' A glorious cast restores the luster of this oddball 1947 musical with a first-rate score by E. Y. Harburg and Burton Lane. Kate Baldwin and Cheyenne Jackson are the frisky lovers, Jim Norton the wily Irishman with a purloined pot of gold, and Christopher Fitzgerald the leprechaun on the lam. Daft? Yes, but heaven for musical theater lovers (2:25) St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'GOD OF CARNAGE'Yasmina Reza's farce about combustible parents in conflict, impeccably directed by Matthew Warchus. Christine Lahti, Annie Potts, Jimmy Smits and Ken Stott make up the new set of brawlers.(1:30). Bernard Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'HAIR' (Tony Award for best musical revival.) Diane Paulus's thrilling, emotionally rich revival of the 1967 rock musical delivers what Broadway otherwise hasn't felt this season: the intense, unadulterated joy and anguish of that bipolar state called youth. A production that finds the complexity and deep ambivalence in a show people tend to remember as a feel-good free-for-all (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'IN THE NEXT ROOM (OR THE VIBRATOR PLAY)'Sarah Ruhl's delightful new play is set in the late 19th century in the adjoining parlor and consulting room of a doctor who specializes in treating ''hysteria'' in women with the use of a newfangled electrified aid. Michael Cerveris is the kindly doctor, Laura Benanti his curious wife. A real novelty: a sex comedy written for adults (2:30). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'IRVING BERLIN'S WHITE CHRISTMAS' This seasonal offering, a stage version of the 1950s movie with some additional songs drafted for the occasion, features new faces in the main roles this year, but it's just as lukewarm as ever. The most interesting addition is David Ogden Stiers as the retired general at whose Vermont inn most of the action takes place (2:30). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Neil Genzlinger)20091210
 'MEMPHIS' In the city of the title in the 1950s, a pioneering white radio D.J. (the endearing Chad Kimball) falls in love with R&B music and one of its comely practitioners (the lovely Montego Glover) in this slick but essentially soulless musical written by David Bryan and Joe DiPietro (''The Toxic Avenger'') and fleetly directed by Christopher Ashley. Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'NEXT TO NORMAL' No show on Broadway makes as direct a grab for the heart -- or wrings it as thoroughly -- as this brave, breathtaking musical. Tom Kitt and Brian Yorkey's portrait of a manic-depressive suburban mom (the astounding Alice Ripley) and her family, directed by Michael Greif, isn't a feel-good musical. It's a feel-everything musical (2:20). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'RACE'David Mamet's surprisingly slack examination of a hot-button topic registers well within the average Broadway audience's comfort zone. There are glimmers of the author's scalpel-edge intelligence, and James Spader is excellent as a white lawyer representing a white man accused of raping a black woman. David Alan Grier, Richard Thomas and Kerry Washington round out the able cast (1:40). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'RAGTIME' Marcia Milgrom Dodge's appealingly modest interpretation of this 1998 musical about early-20th-century American growing pains, adapted from E. L. Doctorow's novel, finds an affecting, uneasy human soul within the work's panoramic sweep. This production doesn't disguise the work's hearty preachiness, but it elicits glimmers of delicate beauty (2:45). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'ROCK OF AGES' The Sunset Strip in the 1980s is the setting for this absurdly enjoyable jukebox musical weaving more than two dozen arena-rock hits from the glory years of MTV -- from Journey and Pat Benatar to Poison and Whitesnake -- into a story of heartbreak and warped-vinyl dreams. Big hair, songs that are trashy fun, fabulous cast (2:25). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'SHREK THE MUSICAL' This musical cavalcade of storybook effigies, adapted from the animated film of the same title, can feel like 40 blocks' worth of a Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, accompanied by an exhaustingly jokey commentary. But Brian d'Arcy James and the hypertalented Sutton Foster find a sweet, goofy chemistry as an ogre and a princess (2:30). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'SUPERIOR DONUTS' The new play from the ''August: Osage County'' author Tracy Letts is a warm-hearted, bile-free comedy about the friendship between an emotionally stunted ex-radical (Michael McKean) and the brash young man he hires to help out in the establishment of the title (Jon Michael Hill, in an exciting Broadway debut). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'WEST SIDE STORY' In a startlingly sweet revival of this epochal musical, Arthur Laurents trades insolence for innocence, with dividends and losses. If the Jets and the Sharks seem too cute to be true, the show's doomed lovers (played by Josefina Scaglione and Matt Cavenaugh) have rarely been more affecting. And as Anita, Karen Olivo is a stunner (2:35). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, near 46th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'WISHFUL DRINKING'Carrie Fisher's brut-dry, deeply funny one-woman show allows you to see the world through the self-dissociating gaze of a child of Hollywood who has always lived in a fishbowl (2:20). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street , (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)20091210
 Off Broadway
 'AVENUE Q' Even without legs of their own, the singing hand puppets of this Tony-winning musical are still standing tall in their new Off Broadway digs. This ''Sesame Street''-style show about being young and jobless in New York remains fresh, in all senses of the word (2:15) New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'BIOGRAPHY' This cheeky production of S. N. Behrman's 1932 play is clever, well played and Coward-esque but sincere, with a cheerily contemporary feminist viewpoint. It's the tale of a single portrait artist (Tracy Shayne) in love with life, her memoirs and her men (1:15). Theater 3 at the Mint, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 352-3101, theatermania.com. (Anita Gates)20091210
 'THE BROTHER/SISTER PLAYS' PARTS 1 & 2 Tarell Alvin McCraney's gorgeous trilogy of poetic plays, about hard lives in the bayou country of Louisiana, are pumped full of a senses-heightening oxygen. Directed by Tina Landau and Robert O'Hara, and acted by a rousingly good ensemble, these interconnected works are the product of that rare and great thing, an original artistic vision. (Part 1 is 2:00; Part 2 is 2:30.) Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village , (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)20091210
 'CAPTAIN PANTOJA AND THE SPECIAL SERVICE/PANTALEON Y LAS VISITADORAS' Peruvian soldiers in the Amazon need female companionship, so Captain Pantoja enlists a whole corps of prostitutes, complete with cute, midriff-baring uniforms. This rousing, sexy and surprisingly sweet new musical could give bawdiness a good name. In Spanish with simultaneous English translation. Repertorio Espanol at the Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street , (212) 225-9920, repertorio.org. (Gates)20091210
 'CIRCUMCISE ME' Yisrael Campbell's highly entertaining account of his conversion to Judaism -- not once but three times -- is elevated beyond shtick by the recognition that, aside from the jokes, this is Mr. Campbell's life, and that his quest for a ''relationship with God'' continues even after the house lights rise (1:30). Bleecker Street Theater, 45 Bleecker Street, East Village , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Daniel M. Gold)20091210
 'THE HEART IS A LONELY HUNTER' A respectful but wan adaptation, written by Rebecca Gilman and directed by Doug Hughes, of the 1940 Carson McCullers novel about lonesome souls in a Southern town (2:15). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village , (212) 239-6200, nytw.org. (Isherwood)20091210
 'IDIOT SAVANT' Some kind of wonderful. Richard Foreman's cheerful, mad and eminently sane exaltation of the world as a stage stars an antic and very skillful Willem Dafoe as a rogue philosopher trapped in a play. Alenka Kraigher and Elina Lowensohn are his female supplicants and tormentors (1:20). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village , (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)20091210
 'LOVE CHILD' Daniel Jenkins and Robert Stanton star in this rollicking two-hander, which they also wrote. It's a backstage story in which the two men play all the characters: a group of actors staging a ridiculous updating of Euripides, as well as a couple of overly loud audience members. No wigs or costume changes here: it's all in the tics and accents, and half the fun is seeing if you can keep up (1:20). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Genzlinger)20091210
 'LOVE, LOSS, AND WHAT I WORE' Or, shoes, bags and heartaches. A stuffed closet of comic or poignant stories, or both, collected by Nora and Delia Ephron, about women and their relationship to clothes. Featuring a rotating cast of five comics and actors. Westside Downstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'OR,' Maggie Siff (''Mad Men'') plays the pioneering female writer Aphra Behn in Liz Duffy Adams's mock-Restoration comedy, which imagines Behn as one point in a love triangle also involving King Charles II (Andy Paris) and Nell Gwynne (Kelly Hutchinson). Frisky, funny and smart (1:30). Women's Project Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'THE ORPHANS' HOME CYCLE': PART ONE: THE STORY OF A CHILDHOOD On the basis of the three-work production that begins this New York premiere, Horton Foote's heart-piercing, nine-play family album about growing up lonely in early-20th-century Texas should be great adventure of the theater season. Directed with cinematic fluidity and novelistic detail by Michael Wilson (2:50). Signature Theater at Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Brantley)20091210
 'ORPHEUS X'Rinde Eckert's broody music-theater version of this classic myth finds a rock star obsessed with the woman he mowed down in a taxi one rainy night (1:30). Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, tfana.org. (Isherwood)20091210
 'OUR TOWN' David Cromer strips away the folksy warmth in which Thornton Wilder's play is often saturated to reveal this classic's quietly mournful depths. This wonderfully intimate production puts a small audience smack in the middle of Grover's Corners (2:00). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'SO HELP ME GOD!' Maurine Dallas Watkins's long-lost comedy from 1929 is a deliciously sour backstage story of a back-stabbing diva, played with a gourmand's relish by Kristen Johnston. The plot may be familiar, but the merciless tone of voice is downright shocking. Directed by Jonathan Banks, it's a show that tastes sweet precisely because it's bitter (2:10). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village , (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'THE STARRY MESSENGER'Kenneth Lonergan's gentle, compassionate comic drama about a passive astronomy teacher considers fallible, contradictory souls who can never quite articulate what's missing in their lives but always feel the void. The fine ensemble is led by Matthew Broderick, in his most affecting performance in years (2:45). The New Group at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street , (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE' As played by Cate Blanchett, Blanche DuBois, the lady who lives for illusion, has never felt more real. In this heart-stopping production from the Sydney Theater Company, Ms. Blanchett and the director Liv Ullmann pull a mythic character gently and firmly down to earth (3:10). Brooklyn Academy of Music, Harvey Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene , (718) 636-4100, bam.org. (Brantley)20091210
 'THIS' Melissa James Gibson's tart, melancholy comedy about four close friends entering the choppy waters of middle age turns on a familiar marital calamity -- a straying husband -- but does so with freshness, distinctive verbal wit and emotional insight. Daniel Aukin directs a flawless cast (2:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'THE TOXIC AVENGER' A dopey, intermittently funny musical version of the cheapo Troma picture. A geek-turned-monster in New Jersey tears the limbs off evildoers while singing pop-rock anthems. The cast is fun, but Joe DiPietro's book and David Bryan's music are mostly mediocre (1:40). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'UNDER THE GASLIGHT' Will the rich, beautiful, engaged 19th-century society girl Laura Courtland (Amanda Jones) find happiness? Or will the dastardly, lower-class blackmailers ruin her? This appropriately overwrought new production of a hit 1867 melodrama is sometimes touching, sometimes funny and always intriguing just for bringing this old theatrical form back from the dead (2:30). Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village , (212) 995-5303, metropolitanplayhouse.com. (Gates)20091210
 'THE UNDERSTUDY'Julie White fabricates bountiful laughs from a sumptuous display of strained nerves in Theresa Rebeck's scattershot backstage comedy, which also stars Justin Kirk (''Weeds'') and Mark-Paul Gosselaar (''Saved by the Bell'') as actors on far different levels of the showbiz totem pole (1:30). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street , (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)20091210
 'ZERO HOUR' Jim Brochu does an excellent imitation of Zero Mostel in his standard issue bio-play (1:50). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)20091210
 Extravaganzas
 'BIG APPLE CIRCUS: BELLO IS BACK!' The high-haired clown Bello Nock returns to the big top, along with an astonishingly talented group of exciting performers (1:50). Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center , (888) 541-3750, bigapplecircus.org. (Ken Jaworowski)20091210
 'RADIO CITY CHRISTMAS SPECTACULAR' With its idealized celebrations of Christmas, New York and Radio City itself, the Spectacular is a curio, a throwback to a golden era of stage shows, complete with Santa, camels and the Rockettes. Corny? Sure. But that's a huge part of its appeal (1:30). Radio City Music Hall , (212) 307-1000, ticketmaster.com. (Gold)20091210
 'WINTUK' This family-oriented holiday extravaganza from Cirque du Soleil is high on action, if short on emotion (1:30). WaMu Theater at Madison Square Garden , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Jaworowski)20091210
 Long-Running Shows
 'ALFRED HITCHCOCK'S THE 39 STEPS' A theatrical riff on the 1935 Hitchcock movie (1:45). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'ALTAR BOYZ' A satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'BILLY ELLIOT THE MUSICAL' Ballet dreams in coal country(2:50). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'CELEBRITY AUTOBIOGRAPHY: IN THEIR OWN WORDS' A rotating cast of comics and actors reads selections of the witless wisdom culled from the tell-all tomes of the rich and famous (1:30). Triad Theater, 158 West 72nd Street , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'CHICAGO' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'THE FANTASTICKS' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'FUERZA BRUTA: LOOK UP' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'GAUGUIN/SAVAGE LIGHT' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Genzlinger)20091210
 'IN THE HEIGHTS' A musical panorama of a neighborhood in Washington Heights undergoing change (2:20). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)20091210
 'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'THE LION KING' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, at Broadway , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'THE MARVELOUS WONDERETTES' At a 1958 prom, this jukebox musical's title characters sing hits of the era from a female perspective; they return at their 10-year reunion, weathered and wiser. For fanciers of the girl-group sound, the production is an utter charm bomb (2:00). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Andy Webster)20091210
 'MARY POPPINS' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street , (212) 307-4747, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'MY FIRST TIME' Ken Davenport's venture into Web-theater synergy mines a site called MyFirstTime.com to cull stories of inaugural encounters with sex (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ginia Bellafante)20091210
 'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'SOUTH PACIFIC' A 1949 tale of men and women unmoored by war (2:50). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'WICKED' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street , (212) 307-4100, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091210
 Last Chance
 'AMERICAN TREASURE' closes on Sunday. A mysterious creature called the Hauntus is at the center of Julia Jarcho's odd, dense, oblique but haunting one-act about a so-called history detective, his latest client and a scalp. The play doesn't completely deliver the lovely mysteries it promises, but Ms. Jarcho is a remarkably clever writer (1:30). Paradise Factory, 64 East Fourth Street, East Village , (212) 613-3118, 13p.org. (Gates)20091210
 'DREAMGIRLS'; closes on Saturday. Robert Longbottom's bluntly drawn, pastels-saturated revival of Tom Eyen and Henry Krieger's landmark musical, inspired by the career of the Supremes. Audiences should feel a demi-shiver of the excitement generated by the original, but not much more. The talented cast includes the powerhouse Moya Angela (2:30). Apollo Theater, 253 West 125th Street , (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'THE LAST CARGO CULT'; closes on Sunday. Mike Daisey meditates on the financial crises and the meaning of money in his stem-winding new monologue (1:40). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village , (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Zinoman)20091210
 'THE LATE CHRISTOPHER BEAN'; closes on Saturday. The Actors Company Theater has uncovered another jewel with this 1932 comedy about a family upended by greed (2:10). Beckett Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton , (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Jaworowski)20091210
 'MY WONDERFUL DAY'; closes on Sunday. Alan Ayckbourn's charming, rueful new comedy considers what fools grown-up mortals be through the eyes of an 8-year-old girl. This perspective lends a piquant freshness to what might have been a formulaic sex farce. The remarkable Ayesha Antoine, as the child, leads a fine cast, directed by Mr. Ayckbourn (1:40). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street , (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Brantley)20091210
 'NIGHTINGALE'; closes on Sunday. Lynn Redgrave's imagined memoir of her maternal grandmother, Beatrice Kempson, examines the limitations and disappointments of women's lives with both frankness and empathy (1:30). City Center, Stage 1, 131 West 55th Street , (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)20091210
 'POST NO BILLS'; closes on Sunday. This new play by Mando Alvarado takes a long time to say not very much about its main characters, a subway singer and the homeless teenager he takes under his wing. Audrey Esparza as the teenager is the play's best feature, but Mr. Alvarado's inability to recognize a cliche deadens things (2:10). Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village , (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Genzlinger)20091210
 'THE ROYAL FAMILY'; closes on Sunday. This unevenly cast, sumptuous-looking revival of George S. Kaufman and Edna Ferber's 1927 portrait of a theatrical dynasty takes a while to find its rhythms. But as a stage-addicted mother and daughter, Rosemary Harris and Jan Maxwell spin hokum into pure moonlight (2:40). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street , (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)20091210
 'SHALOM ALEICHEM: LAUGHTER THROUGH TEARS'; closes on Sunday. Theodore Bikel wrote and stars in this pleasantly nostalgic but meandering one-man show about the great Yiddish writer. The interspersed Yiddish songs are the highlights of the evening (1:30). Folksbiene Theater at the Baruch Performing Arts Center, 55 Lexington Avenue, at 25th Street , (646) 312-5073, folksbiene.org. (Rachel Saltz)20091210

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'The Starry Messenger': Matthew Broderick and Catalina Sandino Moreno star as lovers in Kenneth Lonergan's comic drama about a passive astronomy teacher struggling with problems at work and in his marriage, playing at the Acorn Theater through Dec. 19. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (79%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); CHOREOGRAPHY (79%); DANCE (79%); MUSIC (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); THEATER (74%); WRITERS (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



320 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Sachs Bars Cash Bonus For Top Officers

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY; Jenny Anderson, Stephen Castle, Katrin Bennhold and Steven Erlanger contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With France joining Britain in proposing a steep tax on bank bonuses, Goldman Sachs moved on Thursday to quell the uproar over its resurgent profits and pay. 
 Bowing to calls for restraint in tough economic times, Goldman said that its most senior executives would forgo cash bonuses this year. Instead, the 30 executives will be paid in the form of long-term stock -- an arrangement that means they will not get big year-end paydays, but one that could turn out to be enormously lucrative if Goldman's share price rises over time. 
 The move is meant to address concerns that bankers and traders in the past benefited from short-term performance. The shift at Goldman locks up the executives' rewards for five years and enables Goldman to claw back the bonuses in the event the bank's business sours. 
 Goldman did not say how much it would pay the executives, suggesting the bank would continue a practice -- widely followed in investment banking -- of allocating roughly half its annual revenue for compensation. While their bonuses will be paid in long-term stock, the payouts are likely to be worth many millions of dollars. 
 It is uncertain if the move, which applies only to a small number of Goldman employees, will be enough to placate critics of Wall Street, including some policy makers in Washington, where Kenneth R. Feinberg, the special master of compensation, will release new pay rulings on Friday. 
 ''We're starting to see some firms adopt compensation structures and policies that are in the direction of the principles that the president and Feinberg have been articulating, but we have a long way to go,'' said Neal Wolin, deputy secretary of the Treasury. 
 A year after the government rescued the financial system with billions of taxpayer dollars, banks are preparing to pay out annual bonuses that could rival those of the bubble years. Nowhere is the bonanza expected to be bigger than at Goldman Sachs, which so far this year has set aside a record $16.7 billion to pay its workers, or roughly $700,000 per employee. 
 With even once-beleaguered giants like Bank of America now extricating themselves from the federal bailout program, Mr. Feinberg, who has advocated for banks to pay bonuses entirely in stock, is losing much of his power. Mr. Feinberg is expected to announce on Friday that he will cap the pay of a cohort of workers at the six companies still under his purview at $500,000 and require that half their pay be deferred for three years, according to a person familiar with the matter. 
 Most big banks, however, are now free to pay their employees as they see fit, now that they have repaid their bailout funds. To Wall Street critics and, indeed, many ordinary Americans, the prospect of a new era of Wall Street wealth, so soon after the financial collapse, and with so many people out of work, seems shocking. Some see the coming round of bonuses as evidence that policy makers failed to reform pay practices that in, some cases, fostered the risky businesses that lead to the financial crisis in the first place. 
 ''There's a universal discomfort with the levels of compensation we're seeing in the financial system,'' said Jonathan Koppell, a professor of public policy at the Yale School of Management. ''The idea that private institutions should be walled out from government intervention is harder to swallow when in the last year government intervention was quite welcome in the form of billions of dollars in bailouts.''
 Many on Wall Street were waiting anxiously to see what Goldman would do. Goldman is enjoying one of the most profitable years in its 140-year history, and its rapid recovery has made the bank a lightning rod. 
 Much of the resentment has been directed at Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, who after first staunchly defending the bank's profits and pay, and then bristling at calls for restraint, apologized for mistakes that led to the financial crisis. 
 Mr. Blankfein declined a bonus last year. In 2007, he was paid about $67.5 million, a Wall Street record. This year, he and 29 other top executives will receive bonuses that could be quite large, but they will be in the form of what Goldman called ''shares at risk,'' or stock that cannot be sold for five years and can be retracted if the executive does something that hurts the firm. Goldman has long paid a portion of bonuses in stock. 
 Goldman also announced on Thursday that, for the first time, it would give its shareholders a say in determining compensation. The vote would be nonbinding, however. 
 The shift atop Goldman will not prevent Goldman employees in France and Britain from falling subject to a one-time windfall tax in those countries. After the British chancellor of the Exchequer proposed such a tax earlier this week, French finance minister, Christine Lagarde, threw her support behind a similar tax on Thursday and, in an interview, she said she hoped that other countries would follow suit. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, described the tax as an ''attractive idea'' in a speech in Bonn, Germany.
 Mr. Feinberg's domain, meantime, is shrinking rapidly. Bank of America paid back its bailout money on Wednesday and only its top 25 workers whose pay Mr. Feinberg ruled on in October will be subject to his mandates this year. In recent days, Citigroup, too, has been trying to cut its lifeline to Washington in part to protect its workers from Mr. Feinberg's rulings on Friday.
 ''Ken Feinberg has had more of an impact of driving people out of the bailout than on compensation,'' said Joseph A. Grundfest, a professor at Stanford Law School. ''His job in large part is like trying to nail Jell-O to the wall.''
 If Citigroup returns the bailout funds, only the American International Group, the Detroit automakers and their related finance companies would be subject to Mr. Feinberg's rules. And at Chrysler and General Motors, few workers earn more than $500,000 in any case. Rose Marie Orens, a senior partner, at Compensation Advisory Partners in New York, said the resentment directed at Wall Street was unlikely to let up as long as the economy remains weak. 
 The outcry, she said, ''has reached a crescendo as it related to the financial crisis, and we're not out of that. We are still highly sensitized to the role the organizations played and to the role that compensation played.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Goldman Sachs changed its pay policy for senior executives ahead of new rulings to be issued by Kenneth R. Feinberg. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); BAILOUT BONUSES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONUS PAY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); PRICE INCREASES (55%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



321 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: Come On, Santa, Put Your Clothes Back On

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
In the East Village Rudolph is decapitated, and in Midtown the Wise Men are wearing castoff drapes and lampshades. Scrooge is a model capitalist on the Lower East Side and a nude woman in TriBeCa, and in Brooklyn Tiny Tim ends up as a dog.
 Yes, it's the holiday season, and that means beloved sacred and secular stories are being bisected, dissected and disrespected all over town. Sadly, you've already missed ''Naked Girls Reading: A Christmas Carol,'' but you can still catch ''Naked Holidays N.Y.C. '09: Fear of a Black Santa,'' ''Filthy Lucre: A Burlesque Christmas Carol,'' ''Menorah Horah,'' ''The Gayest Christmas Pageant Ever!'' and several dozen more.
 If, from the titles, these shows sound like hastily assembled, poorly executed attempts to capitalize on the season, well, many of them are. Others fall in the good-not-great range. But also hidden in the pile, like that one memorable present under the tree that makes up for all the ill-fitting sweaters and unnecessary kitchen appliances, are a few gems that would brighten anyone's holidays. 
 We'll get to those later. First, though, some general observations on the chaos that is Christmas-season theater, culled from a dozen of this year's offerings viewed over the past few weeks:
 SCROOGE MUST BE WEARING A KICK-ME SIGN Santa, George Bailey and Jesus are all being shredded on various New York stages, but no one is being reimagined in more ways this year than Ebenezer Scrooge. Maybe it's the economy.
 Janet Hopf actually elevates the old miser in her interesting ''God Bless You, Mister Scrooge!,'' in which the fellow who in Dickens is so easily manipulated by those ghosts is given a backbone. He debates economics with the apparitions, offers capitalism's arguments against encouraging people to rely on handouts, and apologizes for nothing. 
 ''My wealth is a measure not of what I take from the world but what I give to it,'' he says. Jan-Peter Pedross is quite good as Scrooge, and Marley's ghost (Marc Geller) is creepy as can be, making the already chilly La Tea Theater at the Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center on the Lower East Side even more so.
 In Brooklyn, meanwhile, the Gallery Players are skewing Dickens's story even more drastically with ''Mrs. Bob Cratchit's Wild Christmas Binge,'' a play by Christopher Durang that has all the Durangian insanity you've come to expect. For instance, Mr. Durang somehow works Kenneth Lay of Enron infamy into the tale, along with characters from other Dickens works and George Bailey of ''It's a Wonderful Life.'' 
 The main attraction, though, is Joanna Parson's very funny rendering of Mrs. Cratchit, whom Mr. Durang makes the central character. This Mrs. Cratchit isn't quite the one you remember; she's a suicidal, child-hating depressive who doesn't seem bothered when, at the play's end, Mr. Durang turns her son Tiny Tim into a dog.
 Even Mr. Durang, though, doesn't dismember Dickens as much as the clothing-optional folks at Pinchbottom do in ''Filthy Lucre: A Burlesque Christmas Carol'' at Walkerspace in TriBeCa. The burlesque queen Nasty Canasta (who also was one of the four performers in the aforementioned ''Naked Girls Reading'' on Wednesday) makes perhaps the loveliest and certainly the nudest Scrooge in history as, aided by the ghosts of burlesque past, present and future, she considers whether she has a higher calling than running a mere strip club. Perhaps this ''Christmas Carol'' isn't the best choice for the kiddies.
 NAMES CAN BE DECEIVING Anyone who has been to the New York International Fringe Festival knows that a wildly entertaining title is often the sign of a wildly unentertaining show. That's certainly true of ''Hot Babes in Toyland'' at the Players Theater Loft in Greenwich Village, a moronic mess whose babes are not hot and whose jokes are not funny. Santa has replaced the elves with supermodels, the baby Jesus is accidentally electrocuted, and you lose $20.
 Not much better is ''The Gayest Christmas Pageant Ever!,'' an indifferently acted collection of gay cliches at the Actors' Playhouse in Greenwich Village that does not deliver the feistiness promised by the exclamation point in the title. The story involves a gay community theater's attempt to put on a Christmas pageant, and it has exactly one funny bit: when an actor auditions for the pageant by doing a dramatic recitation of a for-sale ad from Craigslist. Enjoy it while it lasts.
 NAMES CAN BE CONFUSING Another eye-catching title is ''Naked Holidays N.Y.C. '09: Fear of a Black Santa,'' a demented collection of sketch comedy at Ace of Clubs in the East Village. The ''naked'' part is fairly self-explanatory, but the black-Santa thing is, um, a red herring. The show has far better material than some of the others with similarly provocative titles, and far fewer costumes. True, Rudolph does get his head cut off, which is a downer, but a skit involving Christmas at a professional wrestler's house may be the funniest of the year.
 ''A Very Sandwich Christmas,'' at the Abrons Arts Center on the Lower East Side, may also seem like a perplexing title, but it's not nearly as perplexing as the show itself, which involves carnivorous activities that have nothing to do with Christmas but does end with a fetal rabbit's being transformed into the baby Jesus and splayed across the head of a giant cat. Yes, you read that right. It's by Banana Bag & Bodice, a troupe that revels in the bizarre. The free beer helps, but not enough.
 AND SOMETIMES YOU GET LUCKY Go to enough holiday shows and you begin to think that making good seasonal theater is impossible, unless you stumble into any of these delightful surprises: ''Sister's Christmas Catechism: The Mystery of the Magi's Gold,'' downstairs at Sofia's in Midtown; ''Santa Claus Is Coming Out,'' at the Kirk on Theater Row; and ''Hee-Haw: It's a Wonderful Li e'' at the Nuyorican Poets Cafe in the East Village.
 ''Sister's Christmas Catechism'' maybe isn't that much of a surprise: it's Maripat Donovan's follow-up to ''Late Nite Catechism,'' which ran Off Broadway for years. Here Ms. Donovan's nun needs to get a Nativity scene mounted, and she draws willing and unwilling volunteers from the audience to play parts that include those ridiculously costumed Wise Men mentioned earlier and, of course, an ass. It is interactive theater at its best, full of laughs but also of respect for Roman Catholic teachings and traditions. Bring your camera; photography is encouraged.
 Matching Ms. Donovan in the best-solo-performance category is Jeffrey Solomon, whose title, ''Santa Claus Is Coming Out,'' is an accurate description of where his story goes but is oh so misleading as to its content. This isn't a clumsy parody, but a sensitive, imaginative tale that really is about a boy's realization that he is different. Mr. Solomon portrays an amazing range of characters, all of them beautifully.
 And down at the Nuyorican, Daniel F. Levin's ''Hee-Haw: It's a Wonderful Li e'' is leaving the ''f'' out of the title of the classic film for a good reason. Mr. Levin takes an inventive look at how things shook out for a secondary character in that film, Sam Wainwright -- the man George Bailey stole Mary Hatch from, and who later comes to Bailey's financial rescue. (''Hee-haw'' was Wainwright's catchphrase.) Turns out not everything ended up so rosily in Bedford Falls. The play has terrific performances, especially by Alexander Borinsky as Sam and Michael Sutherland as George. 
 Of course no human being could see all the seasonal shows in town and remain sane. So you're on your own for ''Christmas Rappings'' (Theater at Judson), ''The Klezmer Nutcracker'' (Vital Theater Company), ''Nice Jewish Girls Gone Bad'' (Theaters at 45 Bleecker Street), ''Justin Bond's Christmas Spells'' (Abrons Arts Center), ''Scrooge & Marley'' (Kraine Theater), ''The 8: Reindeer Monologues'' (the Red Room), ''Menorah Horah'' (Southpaw) and plenty of others. All of them are a lot cheaper than ''Irving Berlin's White Christmas'' on Broadway or that thing at Radio City Music Hall, and -- who knows? -- some of them might be at least as entertaining.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carly Vernon and E. C. Kelly in ''Mrs. Bob Cratchit's Wild Christmas Binge.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BELLA MUCCARI) (C1)
Maripat Donovan in ''Sister's Christmas Catechism: The Mystery of the Magi's Gold.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ENTERTAINMENT EVENTS)
Jeffrey Solomon in ''Santa Claus Is Coming Out.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BREE WARNER)
Above, from left, Felicia Ricci, Lauren Blackman, Alex Borinsky and Molly Thomas in ''Hee-Haw: It's a Wonderful Li e,'' at the Nuyorican Poets Cafe. Jason Craig, near right, and Jessica Jelliffe in ''A Very Sandwich Christmas'' at Abrons Arts Center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHEILA PHALON
 RYAN JENSEN) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); THEATER (50%)

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



322 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Trade Data Helps Lift Shares, Despite Job Report

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market rose Thursday as an improvement in the nation's trade deficit offset a weaker-than-expected reading on jobs.
 The Commerce Department said a surge in exports helped narrow the trade deficit in October to $32.9 billion. Economists had expected an increase. The rise in exports was driven by a weaker dollar, which helped increase overseas demand for exports. 
 The increase in demand for American exports for a sixth month signals that makers of automobiles, aircraft and industrial machinery, as well as farmers, are seeing increased demand overseas.
 James Cox, managing partner at the Harris Financial Group, said the increased demand for goods would help lift the nation's economy.
 The trade figures helped offset mixed jobs numbers. The Labor Department said that after falling for five straight weeks, the number of laid-off workers seeking jobless benefits rose more than expected last week, to 474,000. However the four-week average, which is less volatile, fell to the lowest level since September 2008.
 The gains in stocks came even as the dollar rose. For months, stocks and the dollar have moved in opposite directions. Record-low interest rates have pressured the dollar for much of this year, leading investors to buy assets like stocks and commodities that can earn better returns than cash.
 In recent weeks, signs of improvement in the economy have brought expectations that the Federal Reserve might raise interest rates sooner than expected. That would strengthen the dollar.
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 68.78 points, or 0.67 percent, to 10,405.83. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 6.40 points, or 0.58 percent, to 1,102.35. The Nasdaq rose 7.13 points, or 0.33 percent, to 2,190.86.
 As the end of the year approaches, investors have become more cautious in their trading, not wanting to lose the big gains they have made during the market's rally. The S.& P. 500, which rose as much as 65 percent from its lows in March, has moved little over the last month.
 Bond prices fell, pushing yields higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 20/32, to 98 31/32, and the yield rose to 3.50 percent from 3.43 percent late Wednesday.
 Gold rose after a four-day slide and crude oil gave up 13 cents to settle at $70.54 a barrel. Prices dropped as low as $69.81 a barrel earlier in the day. 
 Japan's Nikkei stock average fell 1.4 percent. Britain's FTSE 100 rose 0.8 percent, Germany's DAX index rose 1.1 percent, while France's CAC-40 rose 1.1 percent.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of 30-year bonds:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
Tax-Exempt Yields: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); AUCTIONS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%)

COMPANY: BMO FINANCIAL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



323 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: Port Authority to Cut Staff by 150

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey plans to cut 150 positions and reduce overtime as part of the $6.3 billion budget approved by the agency's board of commissioners on Thursday.
 The agency also plans to hire fewer consultants to save money in a tough economic climate.
 An authority spokeswoman said the job reductions would be achieved through attrition, a voluntary severance program and leaving vacant positions empty.
 The agency said its 2010 staff of 6,977 people would be at a 40-year low.
 The Port Authority's chairman, Anthony R. Coscia, said the agency was forced to make difficult choices but had to live within its means. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROVALS (88%); OVERTIME (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



324 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PAYBACK TIME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: A Tax at Every Turn

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL; Kitty Bennett contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Runaway federal deficits have thrust a politically unsavory savior into the spotlight: a nationwide tax on goods and services.
 Members of Congress, like their constituents, are squeamish about such ideas, instead suggesting spending cuts or higher taxes on the rich. But with a lack of political will to do the former, and a practical ceiling to how much revenue can be milked from the latter, economists across the political spectrum say a consumption tax may be inevitable once the economy fully recovers. 
 ''We have to start paying our bills eventually,'' said Charles E. McLure, a tax economist who worked in the Reagan administration. ''This strikes me as the best and most obvious way of doing it.''
 The favored route of economists is known as a value-added tax, which is a tax on goods and services that is collected at every step along the production chain, from raw material to a consumer's shopping bag. Similar to a sales tax, it generally results in consumers paying more for the things they buy. The revenues could be used to pay for health care or other social programs, or just to pay down existing debt. 
 Like universal health care, every other industrialized country in the world already has a value-added tax (as do about 100 emerging countries). And also like universal health care, this once-taboo policy option has recently been invoked, at times begrudgingly, by many prominent Washingtonians, including the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi; John Podesta, who was co-chairman of President Obama's transition team; and two former Federal Reserve chairmen, Alan Greenspan and Paul A. Volcker
 Introducing such a tax would probably require an overhaul of the entire federal tax code, no small order, and something the government last did in 1986. At the time the goal was to simplify the tax system, to raise money more efficiently and with fewer headaches for taxpayers.
 Since then, federal spending has ballooned, while the government's ability to raise taxes has become increasingly inefficient. Consider the page length of the tax code and tax regulations, which has expanded by more than 70 percent, according to Thomson Reuters Tax and Accounting. (There are more words crammed onto each page, too.)
 The tax system is now a compendium of lobbied-for ifs, ands and buts. As the tax code has been embellished and then Swiss-cheesed, the portion of Americans footing the nation's income tax bill has shrunk. 
 ''There are many more deductions and credits, which can often encourage inefficient behavior such as tax shelters,'' said Leonard E. Burman, a public affairs professor at Syracuse University, about the changes to the tax system since the 1986 reform. ''The ideal tax system has a broad base -- few deductions or exemptions -- and low rates.''
 Most of the rest of the industrialized world -- including, most recently, Australia -- has already taken this lesson to heart by imposing value-added taxes. Unlike income taxes, which are often front-loaded on the rich, then subsequently diluted, a value-added tax is paid by almost everybody. That broad base is one of its major advantages, and why the International Monetary Fund frequently recommends it to countries that need to raise money quickly.
 What is good for economic purposes, however, can be bad politics, especially since Mr. Obama pledged not to raise taxes on the bottom 95 percent of Americans. (And many Republicans have pledged not to raise taxes on the bottom 100 percent of Americans.)
 The value-added tax is also the darling of many economists for its bounce-a-quarter-off-its-abs efficiency. Its administrative costs to the government are generally low. It is also considered less of a drag on the economy over the long run than raising income taxes, which discourage people from saving money and thereby making capital available to businesses.
 To understand why a value-added tax is considered so efficient, you have to understand how it usually works.
 Imagine the production of a new dress, in three steps:
 A fabric store sells a tailor enough silk to make one dress, at a total price of $10 before taxes;
 The tailor sews a dress and sells it to Macy's for $30 before taxes;
 Macy's then sells the dress to a shopper for $50, before taxes. 
 Let's say the value-added tax is 10 percent. The government will collect some tax revenue in each step of the production process, from roll of fabric to cocktail-party scene-stealer, but each business in the chain gets credit for the tax already paid by other suppliers. 
 When selling the cloth to the tailor, the fabric store adds a tax of 10 percent, or $1 on the $10 of supplies the tailor purchases. The tailor pays the fabric store $11, and the store remits $1 to the government. 
 When the tailor sells his dress to Macy's, he calculates the value-added tax as $3, or 10 percent of his $30 pretax price. Macy's pays the tailor $33. 
 But instead of sending the full $3 to the government, the tailor gets to subtract the $1 of taxes he had already paid to the fabric store. So he sends $2 to the government. 
 When Macy's sells the dress to a shopper, it adds another 10 percent, so the shopper pays $55, or $50 plus $5 in tax. That would be in addition to any state or local sales taxes consumers have to pay, depending on the locale.
 Macy's checks to see how much the previous companies in the supply chain -- the fabric store and the tailor -- have already paid the government in value-added taxes, and subtracts that from the $5. Macy's ends up remitting just $2 to the government.
 The government receives $5 total, or 10 percent of the final purchase price, but from three different businesses. 
 Although more complicated, value-added taxes are considered better than equivalent sales taxes -- where the tax is levied only when the consumer buys a product -- for two main reasons. 
 First, if a single business evades the value-added tax, the government does not lose a large portion of money, because it will collect taxes at other stages of production. 
 Since companies usually get credit for taxes already paid by their suppliers, companies will pressure other businesses in the production chain to prove they paid their taxes. That means the system is somewhat self-policing. 
 To some foes of big government, though, the efficiency of the tax is also its fatal flaw. Conservatives worry that it enables the government to raise money with such little effort that it will encourage Washington to spend even more.
 On the other hand, liberals are wary of value-added taxes because they are regressive. Poor people spend a higher portion of their income buying things than the rich, meaning lower-income people would be disproportionately hurt. 
 That is why countries often make other major changes to their tax code at the same time.
 In Australia, the government imposed a value-added tax in the middle of an overhaul of the system in 2000, which included making the income tax system more progressive. ''Many countries with VATs have income taxes that start out at higher income thresholds,'' said James Poterba, an economics professor at M.I.T. Combining a broad-based VAT with a steeply progressive income tax, he said, avoids affecting the poor too much.
 But just as the income tax has been hollowed out by countless loopholes, so could a value-added tax. Many European countries, for example, have counteracted the regressive qualities of the tax by exempting broad categories of goods, like groceries and children's clothing.
 This always creates problems, economists say. Companies are tempted to mislabel their products so they can avoid the tax. 
 ''What really is the difference between prepared food versus nonprepared food?'' said Alan J. Auerbach, an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley. ''You start having to split hairs, and that can become quite complicated.''
 Besides cheating the government of revenue, this sort of behavior also distorts what people choose to buy, causing a drag on economic development, Mr. Auerbach said.
 Moreover, in some industries -- like financial services -- it is difficult to evaluate how much value is added because of the way they make their money. 
 The solution in many places, like New Zealand, is to exempt the financial services industry. But that might not go over well in a country whose federal debt has recently swelled precisely because of a major banking crisis. 
 Such political hurdles, along with a still-tentative economic recovery, make a consumption tax -- or a tax increase of any kind -- unlikely in the immediate future. But with economists like Kenneth Rogoff of Harvard predicting that federal tax revenues will need to rise by 20 to 30 percent in the next few years, politicians may hold their noses and decide this tax is the least worst option.
 ''Of course, we want to take down the health care cost, that's one part of it,'' Ms. Pelosi told Charlie Rose of PBS. ''But in the scheme of things, I think it's fair to look at a value-added tax as well.''
 Payback Time: Articles in this series will examine the consequences of, and attempts to deal with, growing public and private debts. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and John Podesta, who was co-chairman of President Obama's transition team, have invoked the VAT as a possible option. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS
RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINI UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 CHART: How a Value-Added Tax Could Work: With the deficit at record levels, economists are suggesting a value-added tax, a broad tax on goods and services collected at every step along the chain of production rather than solely by the consumer at the end. Here's how it could work in the simplest sense: TRANSACTION: BASE COST: WITH A 10 PERCENT VALUE-ADDED TAX PAYMENT 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); VALUE ADDED TAX (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SALES TAX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (87%); LOBBYING (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); INCOME TAX (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); FUNDRAISING (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); JOHN PODESTA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



325 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit in October Narrowed as Exports Rose

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit narrowed unexpectedly in October, the government said Thursday, helped by a surge in exports like cars and computers and a drop in demand for foreign oil.
 As countries struggled to sustain a recovery, the 2.6 percent rise in exports surprised some analysts. The increase helped bring the trade deficit down 7.6 percent in October, the Commerce Department said, and it is expected to help drive economic expansion in the last part of 2009. 
 But economists cautioned that October might be an exception caused by the extraordinary drop in oil imports. Long-term, the trade balance, which measures the difference between the value of imports and exports, will swell in the next several months as demand for oil returns to higher levels and as exports remain steady. 
 The country imported $17.44 billion in oil in October, a decline of $2.07 billion from September. The decrease was the result of weaker demand -- 27.4 million fewer barrels -- and a 78-cent drop in the price. Excluding oil imports, which can be volatile from month to month, imports rose 2.9 percent.
 ''Growth both here and abroad is quite firm in the fourth quarter, and that's an important sign of recovery,'' said Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays Capital. ''Still, we don't think this month's decline reflects the underlying trend.''
 The more significant number, Mr. Maki said, was the annual rate of growth for imports and exports. Both increased at a pace of about 25 percent in the last three months, leaving the trade deficit relatively unchanged.
 The trade gap fell to $32.9 billion in October from $35.7 billion in September. After months of stagnation, exports in October were $3.5 billion more than in September, while imports increased by just $700 million from September. The gains in exports were broad-based, led by computers, automobiles and semiconductors. 
 The trade gap has fallen significantly in the last year, totaling $59.4 billion in October 2008. Exports were also helped by a weaker dollar, which is making American products cheaper overseas while driving up the price of everything from Italian cheese to Japanese cars in the United States.
 ''The lower dollar means there is scope for exports to rise at a faster rate,'' Capital Economics, a Toronto-based research firm, said in a research note on Thursday.
 Julia Coronado, senior United States economist at BNP Paribas, said strong recoveries in emerging markets could eventually help reduce the deficit. But monetary restrictions in places like China, she said, were hurting the competitiveness of American products, making the gap difficult to reduce.
 ''It's a good sign that both imports and exports are picking up -- that's an indication that the economy has normalized,'' Ms. Coronado said. ''But as long as misaligned currencies, like China's undervalued currency, are there, you're not going to see a closing of the trade imbalance.''
 Ms. Coronado said she expected to continue to see increases in exports of goods like computer equipment, commercial aircraft, and agricultural machinery as businesses in emerging countries grow.
 In its note, Capital Economics said that the strength of exports in October would probably help speed the rate of expansion in the fourth quarter to 3 percent. 
 In the third quarter, the economy expanded at a rate of 2.8 percent, but it was held back by a swelling trade deficit.
 In other economic news, the number of newly laid-off workers filing for unemployment benefits rose unexpectedly by 17,000 last week. 
 That comes against the backdrop of signs of stability in the jobs market, with the economy shedding only 11,000 jobs last month. Still, the unemployment rate remains at 10 percent. The Labor Department attributed the unexpected rise in part to a rush of claims after the Thanksgiving holiday, when employment offices were closed. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A crane unloads shipping containers in Wilmington, N.C. Exports of cars and computers have jumped recently. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM R. BOUNDS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); IMPORT TRADE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CHEESE (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); US DOLLAR (72%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%); BNP PARIBAS SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (51%); BNP (BIT) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, NC, USA (59%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



326 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; BARBARY COAST; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: In Sausalito, a Chain Is a Chain, Even When It's Local

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.

 BODY:
At 3 a.m. Tera Ancona begins making the pastries that define Cibo, her seven-month-old Sausalito cafe. While most people are asleep, she is living her longtime dream: having her own restaurant.
 ''The thing I'm most proud about,'' she said, ''is the fact that I now employ 11 people in a recession.''
Across the street sits a nondescript, vacant single-story building on the waterfront. It looks harmless, but plans for the property have some predicting that life here will be irrevocably changed. ''It sets up the city for, as many people have put it, a Pandora's box,'' Ms. Ancona said. 
 A large corporate chain wants to take over the space and has made an assertive play to change the ironclad local zoning that restricts ''formula retail.'' Pandora's box is the image everyone here uses for the consequences of such a change. But it is another kind of box -- the box store -- that they fear.
 But the store seeking the change is anything but boxy. The corporation that some believe could set the city on a treacherous path is itself a beloved progeny of the Bay Area: Peet's.
 Peet's, the coffee and tea purveyor based in Emeryville, enjoys a reputation as a local friend, a child of the area's hippie past that matured into a responsible, Prius-driving, progressive adult. But Peet's is no longer the small-time Berkeley company run by 1960s ''Peetniks.'' It is a large, publicly held corporation with 196 stores in six states that will do more than $300 million in business this year. 
 The company's campaign to change Sausalito's zoning has been impressive in scope and execution. Peet's representatives presented a near flawless case to the city, and knew enough about local politics to have the ultimate decision delayed until early next year after a new City Council member is sworn in, creating a better chance for victory.
 Fan letters for Peet's have poured into City Hall, and the company's supporters testified at the planning commission. Last month, The Marin Independent Journal published a favorable editorial, calling the plan ''no big deal'' and noting that the same location once housed a cafe and that there was already a Starbucks downtown.
 But Starbucks arrived before current zoning took effect. All those letters are not the argument they appear to be, either. A close inspection revealed that many were adapted form letters, scripted by Peet's. Several share the same address, and a large number are from people who do not live in Sausalito. While residency is not a legal requirement for an opinion, to some it looks like a strong-arm tactic.
 Ms. Ancona accused the company of spinning itself as a local mom-and-pop business to manipulate public opinion. ''They're trying to pull off something that they're really not,'' she said, ''but a lot of people buy that.''
 Patrick O'Dea, chief executive of Peet's, plans to be at the Council meeting when the issue is decided on Jan. 12. He said he appreciated the concerns about chains, but ''I don't put Peet's in the same camp.'' 
 He said he wondered if the real fear was competition. Sausalito, a city of 7,000, already has more than a dozen cafes, including that of Ms. Ancona, whose family has owned local restaurants for more than 25 years.
 Efforts to control Sausalito's retail ambience began in the 1970s when T-shirt shops arrived ''and we started to look like Pier 39,'' said Tom Gangitano, a partner at Gene Hiller menswear. ''We put a stop to it,'' he added.
 A few chains got in anyway, so in 2003 stricter rules were adopted and have worked. The proposed zoning change would not be limited to the Peet's project. It opens up to chains 32 parcels of land along the waterfront, an area peppered with underused buildings.
 Looser regulations are expected to make that land more valuable, and several owners are supporting Peet's. That has led to fears of a future where the old Cat n' Fiddle could become -- gasp! -- an Olive Garden.
 ''Once Pandora's box is open, it's going to be ugly,'' said Mike Attaway, a scrimshaw dealer in town since 1970.
 Jeremy Graves, the city's planning director, disagreed. ''I do not believe it opens a Pandora's box,'' Mr. Graves said, pointing out that even if zoning changes, other permits will still be required.
 Caught in the middle is Charlie Hamilton, a co-owner of the small building that has caused the fuss He said he saw too many boarded-up buildings and a city that needs revenue. 
 ''It's harder and harder to make a living down there,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tera Ancona, a cafe owner in Sausalito, is trying to stop Peet's from moving into town.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); ZONING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); CITIES (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



327 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: High Premiums in Senate Democrats' Health Plan

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senate Democrats have provided few details about their latest health care proposal, but this much seems clear: Anyone who wants to buy the same health benefits as members of Congress, or to buy coverage through Medicare, should be prepared to fork over a large chunk of cash. 
 According to the Congressional Budget Office, a family of four earning $54,000 in 2016, when the health legislation is fully in effect, would be eligible for a subsidy of $10,100 to help defray the cost of insurance under the health legislation being debated by the Senate. By then, one of the most popular federal plans, a nationwide Blue Cross and Blue Shield policy, is projected to cost more than $20,000. 
 That could leave the family earning $54,000, slightly more than the current median household income, with monthly premium costs of more than $825. 
 The Democrats' proposal would also allow some people ages 55 to 64 to ''buy in'' to Medicare, starting in 2011. That could cost about $7,600 a year per person or $15,200 for a couple, according to a budget office analysis of an earlier version of the concept. No subsidies would be available until 2014. 
 Senate Democrats have been careful to say that their proposal is not intended to offer exactly the same benefits that members of Congress have. In many cases, federal subsidies would cover a smaller share of the premium than what the government contributes to the cost of health insurance for federal employees.
 The Medicare buy-in proposal is intended to fill a gap in the social safety net for millions of people nearing retirement who are unable to obtain or afford insurance. In general, the new Medicare option would be available only to people who are uninsured. People 55 to 64 who have employer-sponsored insurance would be expected to keep it.
 Preliminary back-of-the-envelope calculations reflect the steep challenges that Senate Democrats face as they await a new cost analysis of their plan. The numbers also reflect potential pitfalls in the politically appealing message to constituents that they might get benefits similar to those of federal lawmakers. 
 Affordability for individuals and families, however, is hardly the only challenge facing Senate Democrats as they struggle to put together a proposal that can win the 60 votes needed for passage of the broader health care bill. 
 Senators from rural states voiced deep reservations on Thursday about the Medicare buy-in plan, which they said would hurt hospitals, doctors and other health care providers back home.
 In addition to allowing people to buy in to Medicare, the Democrats' latest plan would designate the federal Office of Personnel Management to oversee at least two new nonprofit national insurance plans. 
 The plans would be administered by private companies, but the personnel office would negotiate prices as it does now for the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.
 Federal employee unions and retiree groups expressed apprehension about asking the agency to take on the task of supervising health plans for millions more people. 
 Margaret L. Baptiste, the president of the National Active and Retired Federal Employees Association, said: ''O.P.M. should be in the business of attracting the best and brightest to federal service.'' The agency's mission, she said, is ''is too important to dilute with the massive undertaking of creating and administering a new health care system.'' 
 Some insurance experts said that creating a menu of national plans could provide consumers with an array of interesting new choices that could meet their personal health care needs. 
 ''It's more choice for consumers, and it's more good choice for consumers,'' said Walton J. Francis, an insurance consultant and expert on the program for federal employees.
 But Mr. Francis warned against the Medicare buy-in proposal, which he said would undermine the new national plans and would leave people nearing retirement with insufficient coverage.
 ''Medicare is not a good health plan,'' Mr. Francis said. Even with coverage of prescription drugs, he said, ''it still doesn't have catastrophic protection.'' 
 In response to questions from the Congressional Budget Office, Senate leaders provided additional details of the proposal announced hastily on Tuesday by the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada:
 The new Medicare option would be available only to individuals, not to families. In a household consisting of a 60-year-old man, his 50-year-old wife and their 18-year-old daughter, only the man would be eligible for Medicare.
 People 55 to 64 would receive the same benefits as people in the traditional Medicare program. The Democrats' bill would limit out-of-pocket spending on health care by people in private plans ($5,000 a year for individuals and $10,000 for families). Medicare does not have such limits.
 Medicare premiums for people under 65 would differ from those paid by people 65 and older, and the two parts of the program would be financed separately. 
 Marilyn Moon, a health economist and former public trustee of Medicare, said that for people 55 to 64, Medicare premiums could be higher than premiums charged by private health plans.
 Health policy experts said that the people who chose to enroll in Medicare were likely to be heavy users of health care, with higher-than-average costs.
 Moreover, Ms. Moon noted, private plans would have large numbers of healthy people under the age of 55, whose premiums could help cover costs for those 55 to 64. ''Such cross-subsidies would not be available under the new Medicare option,'' she said.
 Democratic senators generally shied away from explaining or defending their Medicare proposal, on the ground that it was being analyzed by the budget office.
 Republicans denounced the proposal, saying it would add new financial obligations to a program that could not afford its existing commitments.
 ''If the Titanic is sinking, the last thing you want to do is to put Grandma and more of your family on the boat,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa.
 But several liberal House Democrats welcomed the Medicare proposal.
 ''Extending this successful program to those between 55 and 64 would be the largest expansion of Medicare in 44 years and would perhaps get us on the path to a single-payer model,'' said Representative Anthony Weiner, Democrat of New York.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Harry Reid, left, at a news briefing with colleagues and doctors on health care overhaul. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: GLOSSARY: Medicare: The government health insurance program originally established in 1965 for people who are 65 and older, blind or permanently disabled. In 2008, the $460 billion program provided health coverage to about 45 million people. Senate Democrats have proposed letting some people ages 55 to 64 ''buy in'' to the program. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (70%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



328 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Slowing Expansion, Harvard Suspends Work on Tower

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Harvard announced Thursday that it would indefinitely suspend construction on a high-tech science complex in the Allston neighborhood of Boston because of money problems.
 ''The altered financial landscape of the university, and of the wider world, necessitates a shift away from rapid development in Allston,'' Drew Gilpin Faust, Harvard's president, wrote in a letter released Thursday. 
 As part of a larger long-term expansion into Allston -- a pet project of Lawrence H. Summers, Dr. Faust's predecessor at Harvard and now President Obama's chief economic adviser -- the university also bought a string of buildings there over the last 20 years. But many have remained vacant, to the chagrin of Allston residents who have accused the university of buying land and holding onto it, a practice known as land banking. 
 The four-building science center, estimated to cost at least $1 billion, was originally scheduled to be finished in 2011. Dr. Faust's announcement comes 10 months after she announced plans to slow the pace of the project while the university assessed whether it could continue. Harvard has since disclosed that its endowment declined 27 percent from June 2008 to June 2009, to $26 billion, and the university has made several cost-cutting moves.
 In her letter, Dr. Faust said Harvard would step up efforts to revitalize Allston, a gritty neighborhood wedged between the Charles River and the Massachusetts Turnpike, even as it delayed the science center. 
 But Harry Mattison, an Allston resident who serves on the Harvard Allston Task Force, an advisory group, said he was skeptical.
 ''There's nothing new here,'' Mr. Mattison said. ''We need to get past vague assurances about leasing some of these decrepit buildings, to a comprehensive plan with follow-through.''
 The Harvard Corporation, the university's governing body, voted Tuesday to formally stop the construction. Dr. Faust, who succeeded Mr. Summers in 2007, said the university would continue to expand into Allston ''as resources allow,'' but only after an evaluation by a new ''work team'' made up of experts in design, urban planning, real estate and business strategy.
 The evaluation will start in January. Meanwhile, the scientists who were supposed to occupy the new complex will work elsewhere indefinitely. 
 ''This delay will in no way slow Harvard's significant momentum in the life sciences,'' Dr. Faust wrote.
 She raised the possibility of Harvard's teaming up with private industry, hospitals or philanthropic foundations to continue the science center construction and other Allston projects -- an idea that Mr. Mattison found encouraging. 
 ''We're going to have to cast a wide net for creative solutions or funding for whatever is going to happen here,'' he said, ''because Drew Faust isn't going to write a check. That's clear.''
 Katherine Lapp, the university's executive vice president, said it was premature to confirm whether the science center, when construction resumes, would ultimately look the same -- or have the same function -- as originally proposed.
 ''It's possible,'' Ms. Lapp said. ''The work team will determine as it goes forward what options might make sense.''
 The construction will stop by March, when the first phase -- the foundation and a street-level concrete deck -- is finished, university officials said. But Harvard will more aggressively seek tenants for surrounding vacant buildings, Dr. Faust wrote.
 Harvard will also develop and support education and job-training programs in Allston, she said, as well as plant trees and finish a new public park. 
 Harvard has struggled to find the kind of tenants -- like shops and cafes -- that Allston residents want for the vacant properties, many of which are along a dingy thoroughfare with an industrial feel. But Ms. Lapp said she was optimistic, especially since Harvard would now look to lease an additional 100,000 square feet of space in buildings that had been used to support construction of the science center. 
 ''We think we can bring some very interesting activities into the community,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The former site of a car dealership, owned by Harvard, is one of many vacant buildings in the Allston neighborhood of Boston. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CHARITIES (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); FOUNDATIONS (68%); PHILANTHROPY (66%); CITY LIFE (65%); CITIES (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

PERSON: DREW GILPIN FAUST (89%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



329 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Defend Bill To Rein In Wall Street

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
House Democrats defended their Wall Street regulatory overhaul on Thursday against sharp Republican criticism that it would perpetuate a bailout mentality, and they accused Republicans of aligning themselves with the financial institutions that caused the financial crisis.
 As the House worked through dozens of proposals to change the measure, Democrats said the sweeping legislation would better protect consumers in their dealings with banks, credit card companies and others selling financial products while holding executives rather than taxpayers accountable for bad business decisions.
 ''The legislation says very clearly to Wall Street: the party is over,'' said Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker. 
 Republicans, trying to emphasize an issue that strikes a chord with conservatives, said the creation of a new $150 billion fund to dissolve failing businesses would mean a continuation of the bailouts that have sparked public anger.
 ''My constituents in Kansas and folks across the country have bailout fatigue,'' said Representative Lynn Jenkins, Republican of Kansas.
 Democrats said Republicans were misrepresenting the measure, adding that the fund would be established through assessments on major players in the field of high finance.
 ''There are no taxpayer dollars that will be used,'' said Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Financial Services Committee, adding that the money would not be used to keep companies operating but only for the ''burial costs'' of dismantling them.
 Both sides said they believed that the final vote on the measure, expected for Friday, had implications for next year's elections. 
 Democrats warned that House Republicans, who appear to be virtually united against the measure, would be casting a risky vote if they aligned themselves against legislation seeking to protect the public from abusive financial practices and prevent another Wall Street collapse.
 ''Once again we find them siding with the special interests against the taxpayer, against the consumer,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. ''They are going to pay a very heavy price.''
 Republicans said they believed they could make the case that the measure would tighten credit, cost jobs and give the government too much power over private enterprise.
 ''I think those people who are concerned about consumers realize something needs to be done,'' said Representative Scott Garrett, a New Jersey Republican who sits on the Financial Services Committee. ''But substantiating and continuing a situation where you have bailouts, continuing a situation where you hurt jobs and expand the authority of government entities that didn't do their jobs in the first place is not the way to do it.''
 The legislation, which combines nine separate proposals, is viewed by Democrats as a comprehensive response to the financial crisis last year. It seeks to place new controls and transparency on derivatives, the complex financial transactions that were blamed as a main cause of the economic collapse. It would allow consumers to sue credit rating agencies for flawed evaluations of financial products. 
 The measure also would give shareholders an advisory vote on executive compensation and allow regulators to intervene in cases of inappropriate pay packages. It would put extensive new scrutiny on companies deemed to be large enough or interconnected enough to put the entire economy at risk in an effort to reduce the chances that, in a future crisis, they would be judged ''too big to fail.'' It bolsters the ranks of federal regulatory agencies.
 After taking steps to ease opposition from liberal and centrist Democrats, House leaders were optimistic they could win approval of the measure. But efforts to reshape the legislation were still being made, both by lawmakers who said it did not go far enough in reining in financial excesses and by those who said they wanted to ease its potential to stifle economic growth.
 A major showdown loomed over a Democratic proposal to try to strip from the bill a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency with broad power to regulate a variety of financial products like mortgages and credit cards. 
 Representative Walt Minnick, Democrat of Idaho, wants to replace the agency with a council of regulators to coordinate existing consumer protection activities. Critics of the new agency said it could lead to costly new regulations and requirements.
 Authors of the measure say they think they can defeat the effort, and consumer groups have rallied to support the new agency.
 ''Consumers have paid a very steep price for years of weak federal oversight of unscrupulous banking and lending practices,'' said Jim Guest, the president of Consumers Union. ''It's time for Congress to put an end to do-nothing financial industry oversight and make sure that consumers have a real watchdog looking out for their interests.''
 The financial regulatory bill is a top priority of the Obama administration, and the White House has been actively involved in working out disputes that have slowed the progress of the measure. The Senate, which is not as far along as the House, is not expected to take up a similar proposal until next year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Lynn Jenkins, Republican of Kansas, top
Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: LYNN JENKINS (73%); BARNEY FRANK (59%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (59%); SCOTT GARRETT (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



330 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; Pg. 33A

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: From Year of the Woman to Worst Six Years of Her Life

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN. 
James Warren is a longtime Chicago journalist and the publisher of The Chicago Reader.

 BODY:
Carol Moseley Braun still has the wonderful smile, the belly laugh, the twinkle in the eyes -- and a continuing battle with reality. 
 Ms. Braun, the first and only African-American woman to serve in the United States Senate, was having tea at the genteel Palm Court of the Drake Hotel and discussing the struggles of running a start-up business that produces organic tea, coffee and olive oil.
After giving up on restoring a family farm in Alabama, she returned to Chicago in 2002 to sell ''sustainable, organic and fair-traded'' products. It's called Ambassador Organics, the name inspired by her post-Senate tenure as United States ambassador to New Zealand, a country she said she fell in love with. 
 Her biggest challenge? ''The economy, have you noticed?'' she said with that great laugh as she talked about her difficulty in lining up investors. The guffaw reminded me of the time she nearly fell out of her chair at a big Washington dinner after a table mate of ours made an X-rated remark about Ellen DeGeneres and Ann Heche ostentatiously smooching at the next table. 
 Ms. Braun's return to Chicago illustrates the fleeting nature of fame in our age of instant celebrity. Though her election to the Senate 17 years ago made history, the achievement is fading from memory, even in Chicago. I asked a bright ninth grader, a black teenager in south suburban Dolton, and she had never heard the name. So much for civics instruction in our schools.
 I told the girl that Ms. Braun was improbably elected in 1992 after serving as Cook County recorder of deeds, winning a tight three-person primary and then whipping an uninspiring Republican. She was a rock star in a ''Year of the Woman,'' when four women were elected to the Senate , thanks in part to Bill Clinton's presidential victory. 
 But she frustrated supporters, dissipating their good will and generating an image so poor that she lost re-election to a beatable Republican, the banker Peter Fitzgerald, despite Illinois's joining the ranks of blue states. 
 She got the New Zealand appointment, while Mr. Fitzgerald angered Republican diehards, did not run for re-election and created a vacancy ultimately filled by Barack Obama.
 ''I've thought about it, yes,'' she said about how fateful her loss proved to be for Mr. Obama. ''But his election was destiny.''
 Her downfall was an accumulation of miscues: questions about high living off her campaign treasury; doubts about the ethics of her boyfriend; ties to an African dictator, and a sense of inattention to detail and policy. She is adamant about the unfairness of each claim, and no one was ever charged with any crimes. Most notably, she talks and e-mails about the Senate years as ''the worst six of my life.''
 ''Mother died of cancer. Fiance run out of town on a rail. Death threats. Family disrupted. Villified,'' she said, adding that she got to go to work with Strom Thurmond, JesseHelms, Trent Lott, Christopher S. Bond, ''and a few not-so-nice Dems. Could go on. But God is good. We survived it all.''
 She argued, too, that she was done in by a force more powerful to her than racism, namely sexual discrimination.
 Hmmmm. 
 She showed me an unpublished essay that partly addressed her troubles. Some of it involved her quixotic 2003 presidential run. She won't concede its futility. ''Many in the political class snickered that I was delusional to even imagine that I could be nominated, much less elected,'' she wrote, taking a special swipe at unidentified ''leading females'' who dissed her candidacy.
 As for sex, she wrote that it is ''a more elusive touchstone in the march to liberate the human spirit than race.'' She cited pro-Obama campaign T-shirts that carried a picture of Mr. Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton and were emblazoned, ''Bros before Hoes.'' For Ms. Braun, that crudely reflected an erroneous belief that the larger society owes blacks more than women. 
 She evinced a confounding sense of victimization, and she does not see how feminists who once backed her felt that she let them down, including their view that she was being exploited by her former fiance. 
 As we talked, a middle-aged woman interrupted to tell Ms. Braun how much she admired her. ''I am honored to meet you,'' the woman said.
 If Ms. Braun had played her cards right, admirers would have been lining up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (77%); COFFEE & TEA (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TEA FARMING (77%); ETHICS (75%); STARTUPS (71%); FAMILY FARMS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%)

COMPANY: DRAKE HOTEL (58%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); ELLEN DEGENERES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW ZEALAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



331 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke's Unfinished Mission

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, recently had some downbeat things to say about our economic prospects. The economy, he warned, ''confronts some formidable headwinds.'' All we can expect, he said, is ''modest economic growth next year -- sufficient to bring down the unemployment rate, but at a pace slower than we would like.''
 Actually, he may have been too optimistic: There's a good chance that unemployment will rise, not fall, over the next year. But even if it does inch down, one has to ask: Why isn't the Fed trying to bring it down faster? 
 Some background: I don't think many people grasp just how much job creation we need to climb out of the hole we're in. You can't just look at the eight million jobs that America has lost since the recession began, because the nation needs to keep adding jobs -- more than 100,000 a month -- to keep up with a growing population. And that means that we need really big job gains, month after month, if we want to see America return to anything that feels like full employment. 
 How big? My back of the envelope calculation says that we need to add around 18 million jobs over the next five years, or 300,000 jobs a month. This puts last week's employment report, which showed job losses of ''only'' 11,000 in November, in perspective. It was basically a terrible report, which was reported as good news only because we've been down so long that it looks like up to the financial press.
 So if we're going to have any real good news, someone has to take responsibility for creating a lot of additional jobs. And at this point, that someone almost has to be the Federal Reserve.
 I don't mean to absolve the Obama administration of all responsibility. Clearly, the administration proposed a stimulus package that was too small to begin with and was whittled down further by ''centrists'' in the Senate. And the measures President Obama proposed earlier this week, while they would create a significant number of additional jobs, fall far short of what the economy needs.
 But while economic analysis says that we should have a large second stimulus, the political reality is that the president -- faced with total obstruction from Republicans, while receiving only lukewarm support from some in his own party -- probably can't get enough votes in Congress to do more than tinker at the edges of the employment problem. 
 The Fed, however, can do more.
 Mr. Bernanke has received a great deal of credit, and rightly so, for his use of unorthodox strategies to contain the damage after Lehman Brothers failed. But both the Fed's actions, as measured by its expansion of credit, and Mr. Bernanke's words suggest that the urgency of late 2008 and early 2009 has given way to a curious mix of complacency and fatalism -- a sense that the Fed has done enough now that the financial system has stepped back from the brink, even though its own forecasts predict that unemployment will remain punishingly high for at least the next three years.
 The most specific, persuasive case I've seen for more Fed action comes from Joseph Gagnon, a former Fed staffer now at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. Basing his analysis on the prior work of none other than Mr. Bernanke himself, in his previous incarnation as an economic researcher, Mr. Gagnon urges the Fed to expand credit by buying a further $2 trillion in assets. Such a program could do a lot to promote faster growth, while having hardly any downside. 
 So why isn't the Fed doing it? Part of the answer may be political: Ideological opponents of government activism tend to be as critical of the Fed's credit expansion as they are of the Obama administration's fiscal stimulus. And this has probably made the Fed reluctant to use its powers to their fullest extent. Meanwhile, a significant number of Fed officials, especially at the regional banks, are obsessed with the fear of 1970s-style inflation, which they see lurking just around the bend even though there's not a hint of it in the actual data.
 But there's also, I believe, a question of priorities. The Fed sprang into action when faced with the prospect of wrecked banks; it doesn't seem equally concerned about the prospect of wrecked lives.
 And that is what we're talking about here. The kind of sustained high unemployment envisaged in the Fed's own forecasts is a recipe for immense human suffering -- millions of families losing their savings and their homes, millions of young Americans never getting their working lives properly started because there are no jobs available when they graduate. If we don't get unemployment down soon, we'll be paying the price for a generation.
 So it's time for the Fed to lose that complacency, shrug off that fatalism and start lending a hand to job creation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); POLITICS (65%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2009



332 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Europe Pledges Billions in Climate Change Funding

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and ANDREW C. REVKIN; James Kanter reported from Brussels, and Andrew C. Revkin from Copenhagen. Tom Zeller contributed reporting from Copenhagen, and John Broder from Washington.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- European Union leaders agreed on Friday to pay $10.5 billion over the next three years to help poor countries begin tackling the effects of global warming -- and to improve the odds of reaching an international climate accord next week at a conference in Copenhagen.
 But the developing world is also seeking a commitment from industrial powers to provide long-term financing of more than $100 billion each year by the end of the next decade. European Union leaders left unanswered how much they would give in the longer term.
 The push in Brussels, where the European Union is based, came as a group of negotiators in Copenhagen who were convened by the United Nations issued a six-page informal outline of a new climate agreement. The outline sought to pull together a growing stream of conflicting proposals from nations involved in the climate-treaty talks. 
 The outline calls for wealthy nations to commit themselves to sharp reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions in the next decade, and for all nations to seek jointly to nearly eliminate the emissions by 2050.
 But the disagreements on vital numbers remained wide, and sections of the outline concerning some contested issues were left entirely blank. Among the sidestepped items were any long-term goals for financing the deal and provisions for how trade rules might be employed.
 Expressing skepticism at a briefing, Todd Stern, the top American negotiator, said that the proposal lacked any language requiring emerging economic powers like China and India to take concrete steps to curb emissions.
 Mr. Stern said that the United States would remain steadfast in demanding such a commitment, given that nearly all of the growth in emissions of greenhouse gases in the coming decades is projected to come from such countries.
 Suggesting that much remains to be done, he said the section of the outline on curbing emissions reflected ''old think'' and was ''unbalanced in a whole host of ways.''
 Still, he struck a note of optimism. He said that after months of one-on-one discussions with counterparts from China, he was confident that there was ''language we could both agree to, if we can get to the serious stage.'' 
 The European Union's pledge to contribute to a global climate fund -- one that the United Nations has said should add up to $30 billion over the next three years -- is one of the largest financing efforts announced so far. The money is meant to help vulnerable nations adapt to the effects of climate change and develop their economies in ways that will help limit emissions of carbon dioxide.
 The pledge ''is a very clear message indeed to Copenhagen that we are more than ready to assume our share of responsibility,'' Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said at a news conference in Brussels after a meeting of European Union heads of state and government. 
 Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain sought to underline what was at stake in Copenhagen, both for developing nations threatened by climate change and for wealthier nations seeking to remold the ways they produce and consume energy.
 He said there were ''few moments in history when nations are summoned to common decisions that will reshape the lives of men and women potentially for generations to come.''
 In Copenhagen, some of the smallest and most vulnerable countries -- island states facing the prospect of centuries of rising seas in a warming world -- fired off a warning shot in the form of a new draft text of their own. 
 They called for the proposed ceiling for a rise in global temperature accepted by most nations to be lowered by 0.5 degrees Celsius.
 The world's industrialized countries and emerging economic powers have pledged over the past year to work to limit warming to less than 2 degrees Celsius above where temperatures stood in the 1800s. That translates roughly into a rise of no more than 1.3 degrees Fahrenheit from today's average global temperature of about 59 degrees.
 But given projections for greenhouse gas emissions and what is known about how the gases trap heat, even that target will be tough to reach, many climate scientists say.
 Money is central to the demands by poor nations. Most African countries and small island states have demanded aid as a condition for signing a new pact to replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012.
 The European Union has led efforts to raise money for what is known as a fast-start fund, with its contributions meant to be joined by donations from other advanced nations, including the United States.
 But it is not yet clear if or when the money will be available.
 The Obama administration has asked Congress for $1.2 billion in financing for adaptation, technology transfer and clean-energy projects in the developing world. But Congress has not yet acted on the request.
 The rest of the hoped-for American contribution could come from a government auction of emissions permits as part of a cap-and-trade system for limiting emissions by American industries. But legislation on such a system still is stuck in the Senate.
 In Brussels, Ms. Merkel warned on Friday that long-term financing for developing countries would be crucial to any deal next week. ''This is the biggest headache to me,'' she said.
 She also suggested that the United States needed to make a commitment to long-term financing before the European Union clarified how much it would put on the table.
 Meanwhile. Mr. Brown and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France supported using ''innovative financing mechanisms,'' like a tax on global financial transactions, to help developing countries transform their energy systems.
 Advocacy groups and some environmental campaigners condemned the pledges in Brussels as inadequate.
 Tim Gore, a climate change advisor for Oxfam, a group that fights poverty, said the offer was ''mostly a recycling of past promises and payments that have already been made,'' and would siphon funds from areas other than climate protection.
 Fredrik Reinfeldt, the Swedish prime minister, acknowledged that the pledges were ''a combination of new and old resources.''
 Over the weekend, attention is expected to shift back to Copenhagen, where environment ministers are to hold negotiations. Police officers there have begun bracing for several planned protests. On Friday, at least 76 protesters were arrested in various parts of the city center after signaling an intention to disrupt business at the sites of several international corporations in Copenhagen, including the shipping giant Maersk, McDonald's and other firms.
 Chants of ''our climate is not your business!'' could be heard as groups of demonstrators made their way through the streets, many of them carrying maps and instructions about which businesses to make targets.
 On Saturday, a much larger demonstration is planned by a broad coalition of organizations. Protesters are expected to march along an approved route from the Parliament to the Bella Center, where thousands of negotiators and delegates are gathered.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); INDIA (78%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



333 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: House Approves Tougher Rules On Wall Street

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Floyd Norris contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House approved a Democratic plan on Friday to tighten federal regulation of Wall Street and banks, advancing a far-reaching Congressional response to the financial crisis that rocked the economy.
 After three days of floor debate, the House voted 223 to 202 to approve the measure. It would create an agency to protect consumers from abusive lending practices, set rules for the trading of some of the sophisticated financial instruments that fueled the crisis, and take steps to reduce the threat that the failure of one or two huge banks or investment firms could topple the entire economy.
 Whether all of those measures will become law, however, is uncertain because the Obama administration wants certain revisions and the Senate will not take up its version of the legislation until next year. 
 The Democratic authors of the House legislation hailed the bill as the biggest change in oversight of Wall Street since the Great Depression, and said they believed they had struck a careful balance between protecting the public and the economy while not stifling economic growth and market forces.
 ''We have a set of rules in place that will allow the most productive parts of the free market economy, and particularly the financial system, to play the role they should play, but with much less chance of abuse,'' Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and a main architect of the measure, said after the vote.
 The approval of the bill is the most significant step lawmakers have taken to confront the financial crisis since the $700 billion bailout package was rammed through Congress at the peak of the emergency more than a year ago. The bill represents an attempt to address comprehensively what many of its supporters have called the underlying causes of the collapse -- reckless risk-taking unrestrained by regulation.
 No Republican voted for the measure, and 27 Democrats, most from more conservative districts, broke ranks with their party. Republicans strongly criticized the Democratic legislation, saying it could restrict the availability of credit, cause job loss and lead to future bailouts of failing businesses. 
 ''The array of new regulations and taxes on consumers, investors and businesses will destroy jobs and further undermine the fragile economy,'' Representative Spencer Bachus of Alabama, the senior Republican on the Financial Services Committee, said.
 The bill would create, at a cost that could run into the billions, a Consumer Financial Protection Agency in an attempt to head off the kinds of lending practices that led many homeowners to take on mortgages they could not afford. 
 The bill would bring regulation for the first time to a portion of the over-the-counter market for derivatives. It would create a process for dealing with troubles at very large financial institutions that might pose a risk to the financial system and the economy, and require large firms to contribute to a fund to help with an orderly dissolution of those institutions if they are in danger of failing. 
 And the bill includes a number of other provisions to address executive compensation, investor protections and regulation of hedge funds.
 Before approving the measure, House Democrats held off an attempt led by Representative Walt Minnick, Democrat of Idaho, to replace the proposed new consumer protection agency with a council made up of existing regulators. 
 He and other moderate Democrats, joined by Republicans and much of the banking industry, argued the new agency -- a central element of the overhaul -- represented an unnecessary bureaucratic approach that would give the federal government excessive control over mortgages, credit cards and other financial products.
 ''How many new government agencies are necessary to accomplish this task?'' asked Representative Dan Boren, Democrat of Oklahoma. Their effort was defeated on a vote of 223 to 208, removing a final obstacle to the measure.
 In other important preliminary votes, lawmakers slightly scaled back the bill's ambitions to address objections from powerful financial interests.
 Heeding complaints from banks, the House rejected an effort to allow bankruptcy judges to restructure mortgage payments, a plan that has passed the House before but not the Senate.
 House members also agreed to relax some of the proposed new controls on trading in derivatives. Rather than subject all over-the-counter derivatives to open trading, the bill would subject such derivatives only if they were traded between Wall Street firms, or with a major player like the American International Group. But the transactions between dealers and customers will remain largely hidden, so customers will not be able to compare the prices they are being charged with the prices charged to other customers.
 The overhaul of Wall Street regulation is a top domestic priority of the Obama administration, which supported the House bill and applauded its approval. But Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner signaled that the administration would seek changes in any final measure. 
 Despite the House action, final legislation is not imminent. The Senate is still developing its own measure for debate early next year and any Senate bill is likely to differ substantially from the House measure, necessitating further negotiations.
 Most Democrats agreed that stiffened regulation of the financial services industry was warranted by the events leading up to the financial crisis. Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House majority leader, cited what many considered a lack of adequate regulation during the administration of President George W. Bush as a central reason for the economic collapse. 
 ''This bill puts the referees back on the field,'' Mr. Hoyer said.
 The chief argument in the House centered on the Democratic proposal that would assess large financial companies a fee to create a $150 billion fund to cover the costs of dissolving companies that pose a threat to the economy. 
 Democrats said the fund did not amount to a reserve for bailouts since it would not be used to keep companies afloat but would instead lead to a more orderly shutdown and would be paid for by large companies, not taxpayers.
 Republicans, trying to capitalize on public frustration with financial bailouts, said that failing firms should instead go through normal bankruptcy proceedings.
 ''We just think at the end of the day that $150 billion in a permanent bailout fund is not the direction the American people want this nation to go,'' said Representative Mike Pence of Indiana, the No. 3 Republican in the House.
 Both sides saw the vote as a political opening in the coming midterm elections. Republicans sought to turn the issue on dozens of potentially vulnerable Democrats in swing districts, noting that they had opposed a Republican procedural move that would have shut down the bailout fund and put the money toward paying off the national debt.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Barney Frank is a main architect of a bill that he says will allow the economy to thrive while quelling abuse.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A3) CHART: What the House Financial Overhaul Plan Would Do: CONSUMER PROTECTION n Consolidate authority for protecting consumers, which is currently dispersed, into one agency. The agency would set and enforce rules on a variety of financial products, including credit cards, mortgages and loans. Retailers and auto dealers are among the few who would be exempt from the agency's oversight. n Preserve the federal government's ability to pre-empt tougher state consumer protection laws under certain circumstances. n Allow consumers to sue credit rating agencies for flawed evaluations of financial products. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION n Give shareholders the right to vote on compensation and ''golden parachute'' severance packages and require that independent directors sit on compensation committees. n Allow regulators to ban ''inappropriate or imprudently risky'' compensation practices for banks and other financial institutions. FEDERAL REGULATORY POWERS n Establish a council of federal regulators to monitor the market. n Impose stricter standards and regulations on firms that are large enough or interconnected enough to put the entire economy at risk. The government would set up at $150 billion fund -- financed by assessments on large financial firms -- to dissolve any ''large and highly complex'' financial companies that it deemed too risky. n Merge the Office of the Comptroller, which supervises federally chartered banks, with the Office of Thrift Supervision, which supervises savings and loans. REGULATION OF DERIVATIVES n Impose tighter restrictions on the largely unregulated derivatives market and require many derivatives to be traded through clearinghouses where they could be monitored by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Derivatives are complex, and often highly speculative, financial transactions that were at the heart of the economic collapse. OTHER n Require hedge funds and private equity companies with more than $150 million in assets to be registered with the S.E.C. and to disclose financial information. Venture capital companies and Small Business Investment Companies would be exempt. n Redirect $4 billion from the bank bailout fund to provide low-interest loans to unemployed homeowners struggling to keep their residences and to purchase and repair abandoned and foreclosed homes. (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); CONSERVATISM (62%); DISMISSALS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (59%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); SPENCER BACHUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



334 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Dow and the Dollar Rise On Signs of Spending

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Encouraging news about how consumers feel about the economy and how much they are spending sent many stocks higher on Friday.
 The strong showing in retail sales last month raised hopes that consumers are starting to feel more comfortable opening their wallets. The 1.3 percent increase was more than double the gain that analysts had forecast.
 The government's retail report came as a relief to many investors who have been frustrated that consumer spending, a mainstay of the nation's economy, has remained in a funk even as other parts of the economy recover. 
 A separate report showing an increase in consumer confidence signaled that spending could continue to rise. The preliminary Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index increased more than expected in December.
 In addition, the Commerce Department reported a 0.2 percent gain in business inventories in October.
 Hopes of an economic rebound have driven stocks sharply higher for nine months, but the advance has slowed in the last month as investors lock in the year's returns and question what catalysts there might be to power the market higher next year.
 Stephen Wood, chief market strategist at Russell Investments, said the day's reports helped confirm that the economy was on the right track.
 ''We're going from the first global recession in 70 years to a tepid, but very real global growth story,'' he said.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 65.67 points, or 0.63 percent, to 10,471.50. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 4.06 points, or 0.37 percent, to 1,106.41, while the Nasdaq composite index slipped 0.55 points, or 0.03 percent, to 2,190.31.
 Stocks and the dollar seesawed during the week as investors tried to determine where the economy and interest rates were headed. After a stronger dollar sent the Dow down 104 points on Tuesday, stocks rebounded in the final three days of the week.
 The Dow rose 0.8 percent for the week, its second consecutive weekly gain. The S.& P. 500 index rose for a third consecutive week, edging up less than 0.1 percent. The Nasdaq slipped 0.2 percent for the week.
 Friday's gains in stocks came even as the dollar rose. The ICE Futures dollar index rose 0.7 percent.
 For months, stocks and commodities have moved in the opposite direction of the dollar. The dollar has been falling for much of this year as low interest rates make other assets like stocks and commodities more attractive. A weaker dollar makes commodities cheaper for foreign buyers and helps increase profits at companies that do business overseas.
 Gold fell $15.60, to $1,115.40 an ounce. Oil slumped 67 cents, to $69.87 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 A steep drop in the number of employers who cut jobs last month and other signs of improvement in the economy have brought expectations that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates sooner rather than later. That would help the dollar and initially hurt stocks as investors look for better returns elsewhere.
 Ryan Detrick, senior technical strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Research, expects the stock market to have more days when it rises alongside the dollar because gains in the currency signal confidence that the economy is improving. 
 Interest rates were higher on Friday. The Treasury's 10-year note fell 14/32, to 98 17/32, and the yield rose to 3.55 percent, from 3.50 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (88%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); METALS MARKETS (71%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (71%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); INTEREST RATES (62%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%)

COMPANY: RUSSELL INVESTMENTS (56%); INTERCONTINENTALEXCHANGE INC (51%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: ICE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



335 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Strong Sales At Retailers Raise Hopes For Growth

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
A strong start to the holiday shopping season pushed retail sales higher in November, the government reported on Friday, propelling stock prices near their recent highs.
 Hopes that consumers may be opening their wallets ever so slightly even in this grim job market were also bolstered by a separate report that showed consumer confidence improving.
 In retailers as diverse as health stores and electronics boutiques, sales rose 1.3 percent last month from October, nearly twice the gain economists had expected. Excluding cars and gasoline sales, which can be volatile, the jump was 0.6 percent, three times as much as economists had predicted. 
 The rosy numbers brought the Dow Jones industrial average up to within a point of its highest level in more than a year, as investors grew more confident that companies would be reaping better-than-expected profits this holiday season. Other stock indexes were mixed, with Standard & Poor's 500 rising about 0.4 percent and the Nasdaq composite closing slightly lower. 
 Trading remained light, however, and concerns continued that an economic recovery might cause the Federal Reserve to move toward higher interest rates sooner than predicted.
 The Commerce Department's report on sales brought relief to business owners, who had feared consumers would rein in spending this year as the unemployment rate crept above 10 percent and the recovery showed signs of weakness. The data reinforced the expectation of modest growth in consumer spending over the next several months, economists said, though retail sales alone would probably not increase fast enough to lift the economy out of its downturn. 
 A gauge of consumer confidence added to hopes of a revival in spending. The University of Michigan's index registered its first increase in three months and outpaced expectations. 
 The consumer sentiment index reached 73.4 in early December, an increase of 6 points, as Americans appeared reassured by the slowing pace of job losses and encouraged by deep discounts from retailers. 
 ''The momentum here is positive,'' said James F. O'Sullivan, chief economist for MF Global. ''We're seeing that better spending leads to a better job market which leads to better spending, in stark contrast to the downward spiral we were seeing a year ago.''
 In 2008, the picture of consumer spending was far dimmer: sales took a steep plunge toward the end of the year, dipping below $340 billion a month, as the financial crisis reached its peak. While sales reached $352.1 billion last month, that remained well below the $380 billion monthly sales figures of 2007. 
 Spending by consumers makes up more than two-thirds of the economy, and some analysts say a true recovery will not come until Americans start buying in large amounts again. That may be difficult in a country where at least 15.4 million people remain unemployed, many of them for more than six months, and as many families struggle with meager paychecks and reduced hours.
 ''The difficulties in the labor market, the desire to reduce and the tightening of lending standards of all kinds should serve to cap the pace at which spending will rebound in 2010,'' Dan Greenhaus, chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak, wrote in a research note Friday.
 The retail sales figure reflected a 1.9 percent increase from November 2008, when the chill in consumer spending had begun to take hold -- the first year-over-year increase since August 2008.
 Sales of cars and gasoline led the strong gains over all, though sales were up for goods of many types, including food, electronics, garden supplies and sporting goods. Cars and car parts rose 1.6 percent, even in the absence of government-financed incentives like the cash-for-clunkers program, and gasoline sales increased 6 percent, pushed up by rising prices. Mail and Internet orders rose 1.2 percent, while clothing sales fell 0.7 percent.
 Holiday sales are still expected to come in well below the highs of two and three years ago, and some major chains actually reported sales were weaker than expected in November. Economists explained the discrepancy by noting the government's report measures a wider slice of the economy, including grocery stores and discounters like Wal-Mart.
 The Commerce Department also revised downward its October results, saying sales increased by 1.1 percent rather than the 1.4 percent originally reported. The government adjusts its sales numbers to discount the boom from holiday shopping.
 There were also indications of economic renewal on the business side. A government report showed that businesses increased their inventories in October, after more than a year of cutting back. The gain was a modest 0.2 percent, but analysts had said they believed inventories would decline by that much. Any increase means businesses are restocking their shelves, which stimulates factory production and creates jobs.
 ''If firms decide to stop cutting inventories altogether, that's going to be a huge boost to growth,'' said Haseeb Ahmed, senior economist at JPMorgan Chase. ''If that happens, you don't really need anything beyond modest growth in consumer spending for a sustainable recovery.''
 A report on United States imports and exports released Friday showed signs that vast stimulus efforts worldwide are causing increases in prices. The Labor Department said the price of imports rose 1.7 percent in November, the fourth consecutive month of gains, largely because of increasing fuel prices.
 Still, the Federal Reserve has said that inflationary pressures remain in check and that it does not expect inflation to emerge as a threat to economic stability, even as interest rates remain close to zero.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers, reassured by the slowing pace of job losses and attracted by deep discounts at retailers, are starting to spend more. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUSSEL A. DANIELS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) CHARTS: Retail Sales: Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
 Inventory-Sales Ratio: Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); RETAILERS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



336 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Americans Owe Less. That's Not All Good.

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
AMERICAN consumers owe less now than they did a year ago. Before the current financial crisis, that would have been unthinkable.
 Figures released this week by the Federal Reserve showed that Americans owed $10.8 trillion on home mortgages at the end of the third quarter, down 2.2 percent from a year earlier and the lowest level since mid-2007. 
 Similarly, the Fed said that outstanding credit card bills in October totaled $888 billion, down 8.5 percent from a year earlier. That number was the lowest since March 2007.
 Those trends do not, however, necessarily indicate that Americans have paid down their debts and are starting to lead the more frugal lives that some financial planners have been recommending for years. There has undoubtedly been some of that, but the declines also indicate that banks have been forced to write off a lot of bad debts and have grown more stingy in granting credit.
 As can be seen from the accompanying charts, banks' credit card write-offs have soared, to an annual rate of 10.2 percent in the third quarter of this year. 
 And the Mortgage Bankers Association reported that at the end of the third quarter, 4.5 percent of all mortgages were in foreclosure -- one in 22 mortgages. It said another 6.1 percent -- one in 16 -- were at least two months overdue. Those figures are for all mortgages, not just subprime ones.
 The extent to which Americans are really cutting back may become clearer this holiday shopping season, when they decide how much money to spend. If what they tell pollsters can be trusted, they are going to cut back. 
 A poll of 7,500 Americans in November, conducted for Alix Partners, a business consulting firm, found that people expected to save 15 percent of their income when the recession ended. That is about three times the current savings rate, as reflected in government figures. Asked what their largest personal financial concern was, 18 percent cited lowering their debt, more than any other choice.
 Spending for some people will be down simply because they now have less credit available. As a group, Americans still have access to trillions of dollars, but the numbers have declined as banks have reduced or eliminated credit lines to many customers.
 Banks, as a group, reported $3.4 trillion in unused credit card lines at the end of September, according to a compilation by Foresight Analytics of bank reports to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. That was down 28 percent from the peak of $4.7 billion reached in mid-2008.
 The banks reported that outstanding home equity loans were down only 1 percent from the peak, to $667 billion. But unused home equity lines of credit came to $539 billion, the lowest since 2005 and down 25 percent from the peak reached at the end of 2007.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: MORTGAGES: Residential mortgage loans outstanding
Credit card debt outstanding
Distressed mortgages
 Credit card charge-off rate (Sources: Federal Reserve Board and Mortgage Bankers Association, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TRENDS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



337 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Receives $936 Million in Sale of JPMorgan Warrants

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Treasury Department received $936.1 million from the sale of warrants it had gotten from JPMorgan Chase & Company in return for the support it provided the bank last year during the financial crisis. 
 The Treasury said on Friday that it had sold more than 88.4 million warrants in an auction Thursday at a price of $10.75 each. Warrants are financial instruments that allow the holder to buy stock in the future at a fixed price.
 The conversion price for the JPMorgan warrants is $42.42 a share. Once the bank's stock hits that price, the warrants can be converted into stock worth $3.75 billion.
 JPMorgan received $25 billion from the bailout fund in October 2008 and paid that money back in June. The sale of the 88.4 million warrants was the bank's remaining tie to the bailout fund.
 JPMorgan's share price fell 31 cents to close at $40.96 on Friday. Shares have traded above the $42.42 price in recent months, rising as high as $47.47 in mid-October. The warrants are equivalent to about 2.2 percent of JPMorgan's total outstanding shares as of Oct. 31.
 The Treasury Department received the warrants when it injected billions of dollars of capital into JPMorgan at the height of the financial crisis starting in October 2008.
 It was the second auction of warrants from financial institutions that had received support from the government's $787 billion financial bailout fund. The government received $146.5 million in a sale last week of warrants it had received from the Capital One Financial Corporation of McLean, Va. 
 With the money earned from the two warrant auctions, the government has now received $3.99 billion from the sale of bank warrants.
 The government also has announced that it will hold a third auction this month for warrants it holds from the TCF Financial Corporation of Wayzata, Minn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); TCF FINANCIAL CORP (84%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (82%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); TCB (NYSE) (84%); COF (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



338 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 513 words

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
A SON, A DREAM,
 And a Bare Lot
 The words painted on the plywood wall in the Morris Park section of the Bronx present passers-by with a small mystery. 
 ''I'm working on a dream,'' the blue letters read, below what look to be balloons.
 What kind of dream, one can't help wondering. A dream house? A dream investment? No. Joseph Quintessenza shakes his head. 
 ''The dream,'' said Mr. Quintessenza, his eyes welling up in the cold, ''has become a nightmare.''
 Though his ambitions were high, the lot, at the corner of Williamsbridge Road and Pierce Avenue, still sits empty, covered in weeds and gravel. A pile of rusty paint cans stand next to old metal beams leaning against the fence.
 He had planned a grand building with a skylight in the center and a lobby filled with mosaics, a brick-and-mortar memorial to his son, Joseph, who died of leukemia last year. The Joseph Nicholas Quintessenza Medical Arts Center would promote leukemia research and help disabled children, especially those with autism, like Joseph.
 ''I thought it would be a great tribute,'' Mr. Quintessenza said. He did the plans himself, taking time from his work on the residential properties he owns in the Bronx. 
 But he ran into zoning problems and, with the economic crisis battering the city, he was unable to line up prospective tenants or secure financing for construction.
 Now, he said, he is left paying nearly $20,000 a year in property taxes on an empty lot. The history of the weed-strewn site only makes the situation bleaker. A century-old brick mansion that was revered among local history lovers used to stand there. Mr. Quintessenza bought the building in 1994, moved the offices of his company, Jocarl Management, there and rented space to two families and a real estate agent.
 He said the property taxes became too punishing, and, against strong community opposition, he razed the house in 2006, planning to build a row of three-family homes. 
 But a zoning change quashed those plans, so the homes were never built. And a deal to sell the site to a charter school fell through about the time his son died, which is when he settled on his dream.
 But all that seems like a long time ago. The sign outside -- which went up this summer -- was inspired by a song by Bruce Springsteen, his favorite musician. It once seemed so hopeful, but now it looms as a painful reminder of what he has lost. Mr. Quintessenza said he was close to selling the site at a basement price so he could move on and ''stop the financial bleeding.''
 ''I'm just a working stiff like everyone else, trying to do some good,'' he said. SAM DOLNICK ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 SLIDESHOW: Week in Pictures: A slide show of recent images, with subjects including a Bronx Hall of Fame, a guilty verdict for a former state senator and a shooting in Times Square.
 Real Estate Fraud: A judge ruled on Friday that prosecutors can move forward with charges against a Manhattan real estate investor accused of misrepresenting the value of his holdings to borrow about $17 million from partners, relatives, friends and banks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A sign is now outdated. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM DOLNICK/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Armed in Times Square. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); ZONING (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); HISTORY (72%); CHILDREN (71%); FAMILY (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); ONCOLOGY (67%); LEUKEMIA (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); MUSIC (60%); AUTISM (52%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



339 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Dutch Bank ING to Repay Half of Its Bailout Debt

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The Dutch financial services group ING, which came close to collapse last year, said Friday that it would repay half of the 10 billion euros, or $14.6 billion, provided by the government during the height of the financial crisis. 
 The bank joins other lenders in Europe and the United States, like UBS of Switzerland and Bank of America, in repaying at least some government funds earlier than had been expected.
 The Dutch state provided the funds to ING in October 2008 by purchasing nonvoting preferred shares. ING also received state guarantees for 21.6 billion euros ($31.8 billion) worth of assets related to mortgages in the United States this year. 
 The repayment, planned for later this month, is part of ING's efforts to reinvent itself as a better-focused financial business. Under pressure from European authorities, it is planning to divest itself of its insurance operations and sell its asset management operations.
 ''There's a huge and much-needed restructuring going on'' said Manfred Jakob, an analyst at SEB in Frankfurt. ''ING will emerge as a more specialized and leaner company.''
 The bank's shares closed 1.6 percent higher Friday at 6.12 euros ($8.93) in Amsterdam. 
 The announcement was made as European leaders, including Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, were advocating a tax on banker bonuses.
 ING has already agreed that top executives will not get bonuses this year. Last year, it paid 300 million euros ($438 million) in bonuses, according to Frans Middendorff, an ING spokesman.
 ING intends to finance the repayment with the proceeds of a rights issue valued at 7.5 billion euros ($11 billion), which should be completed Dec. 21. It will use the proceeds to exercise an option for an early repurchase of 5 billion euros ($7.3 billion) in securities held by the government. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); EURO (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); BAILOUT BONUSES (76%); PREFERRED STOCK (75%); DIVESTITURES (75%); INSURANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (65%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (92%); INGA (AMS) (92%); ING (NYSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (57%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



340 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Copenhagen

 BODY:
We didn't expect much from the first week of the global warming conference in Copenhagen. Countries need to do a little posturing before getting down to the hard work, which is supposed to start on Monday. But the belligerent talk from China seemed to go well beyond the usual positioning. 
 The best hope is that the talks will produce an interim understanding under which industrialized countries would commit to fairly precise targets for reduced emissions, and others, like China, to broader but measurable goals. The industrial countries would be expected to help poorer countries shift to less-polluting forms of energy. 
 That would set the stage for a legally binding deal in 2010. But there is no chance of even an interim agreement without the enthusiastic participation of China, the biggest emitter of greenhouse gases. China's absence would give other developing countries -- and the United States Senate -- an excuse to do less than needed.
 Beijing's recent pledge to slow the growth in emissions seemed like a positive shift in attitude. Then on Tuesday, in a surprising show of defensiveness, China's top negotiator, Su Wei, said the greatest burden rested with the industrialized countries and jumped on the United States, Japan and the European Union for not being aggressive enough. Another Chinese official urged Washington to do ''some deep soul-searching'' and improve its proposal.
 Todd Stern, the chief American negotiator, responded correctly: With emissions in many industrialized countries peaking or declining, just about all of the growth in greenhouse gases is expected to come from the developing world between now and 2030, half from China. Rich nations must still reduce emissions sharply, Mr. Stern said, but ''there is no way to solve this problem by giving the major developing countries a pass.'' 
 China has also been demanding that rich nations contribute hundreds of millions of dollars a year to help poor countries address the threat of climate change. Again Mr. Stern was blunt. Washington is prepared to help those who need it, but given China's huge reserves and revved-up economy, he said he could not envision ''public funds, certainly not from the United States, going to China.'' 
 The most positive development has been a pledge by the European Union to contribute $10.5 billion over the next three years to help poorer countries deal with climate change. The United States has said that it will make a contribution but has not said how big it will be.
 Transparency is another difficult issue that must be resolved, at least in principle, this week. There is no point in setting targets, or threatening penalties for noncompliance, unless countries are required to report emissions accurately. Transparency has never been one of Beijing's virtues, and emerging countries generally need aid to create sophisticated monitoring systems. 
 Copenhagen's broadest challenge is finding an equitable way to distribute the burden of confronting climate change. Despite some differences, the industrialized nations have pretty much agreed to trim their emissions by 15 percent to 20 percent from 2005 levels in the next 10 years, and by 80 percent by midcentury. And all seem to be willing to make expensive investments to get there. President Obama will need help from Congress, no sure thing. 
 A host of developing countries -- including India, Brazil, Indonesia -- have put broad goals on the table, though in some cases they seem more aspirational than real. But the bottom line is that the hope for a meaningful deal is vanishingly small if China doesn't sign on. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



341 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Redeem All Of Gift Card, Or Give Store A Present

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
Like it or not, gift cards are now a fixture of the holiday season. And this year, some of the changes in the card world seem favorable at first glance.
 Last month, the Federal Reserve proposed new guidelines for the industry, rules that legislators had outlined in the sweeping credit card legislation that passed earlier this year. They prohibit fees for cards that have been inactive for less than a year, outlaw expiration of funds within five years of when someone has loaded the cards with money, and call for clear and conspicuous disclosures.
 That is fine as far as it goes, though most major retailers already follow these rules. American Express, which issues cards that are good at any retailer that accepts its plastic, went even further. It did away with all consumer fees, other than the ones you pay to purchase and load the gift card in the first place.
 But a big problem remains, and it's awfully hard to legislate away. This year, nearly $5 billion of the money that well-meaning givers have put onto gift cards will go unspent, according to TowerGroup, a financial services consulting firm. The money then reverts back mostly to the retailers and banks that loaded the plastic initially. 
 In the industry, this is known as breakage, and here's what it means: If you buy a gift card for a family member or friend, there's a good chance you'll give a little gift to the retailer or bank that issued it as well.
 How does breakage happen? People lose their cards. Or they abandon them in a drawer and assume they're expired when they're unearthed years later. Fees can still eat away at some of them. And people may use $46 of a $50 card and then throw it out rather than make another trip back to the store.
 The most obvious question here is whether retailers and banks like it when this happens. On one hand, enlightened companies may see the cards as akin to frequent-flier miles. Customers are unhappy when any miles expire, and if they are able to redeem them easily, they're more likely to patronize the airline and collect more miles in the future. That's how loyalty works, and one would assume that gift card issuers want to create the same seamless experience.
 Some third-party providers that set up gift card systems see it a bit differently, however. Head over to the Gift Card USA home page, and you'll see the company behind the site announcing: ''Experience shows that 5-15% of gift card values are never redeemed. This fact can pay for your program by itself.''
 It isn't just a break-even proposition either, according to the people behind Acceptvisamastercards.com. If you count 10 to 12 percent breakage in your calculations, the site contends, the gift card display can become the ''most profitable square foot of space in the place.'' 
 This is how some of the people in the industry talk about gift cards when they think consumers aren't listening. And for big companies, breakage can add up to real money. Not every big retailer or bank discloses it, but Best Buy was kind enough to note that it kept $38 million in breakage in its most recent fiscal year. Home Depot cleared $37 million. Breakage can be total when a retailer goes out of business. 
 Retailers will generally still let you redeem your gift card many years after you received it. But they still record the revenue once they're certain, based on historical redemption patterns, that most of the unspent money from years ago will stay that way. And yes, most of them do tend to keep it, though some states may try to seize the money as unclaimed property (which leads many companies to place subsidiaries in friendly states to try to avoid this). 
 Even as gift cards exploded in popularity over the last decade, it was reasonably easy to avoid getting them, as long as you put together a specific enough holiday wish list for friends and family. But recently, companies have started sending rebates in the form of gift cards, instead of old-fashioned paper checks. So you may end up with the cards whether you want them or not.
 Why is this happening? Because you wanted it to happen, of course. ''It's the convenience,'' said Cletis Hoffer, treasurer at Young America, a marketing company that specializes in rebates and has studied the issue in focus groups. ''Consumers are more interested in getting a card than a check. You have to take a check to the bank. But with a card, you can spend it immediately.''
 This makes little sense to me. I can drop a check in the mail to my bank in about two minutes. But with the gift card like the Citi Visa that I recently received from Verizon, I have to remember to put it in my wallet and take it out at a store. Then, I need to find a retailer where the people at the register won't look at me cross-eyed when I request that they split the transaction between the gift card and another form of payment. It holds up the line, too. 
 At least that Citi card gives you the right to take its gift card to any Visa member bank and extract the cash. I took it to archrival Chase. The transaction was seamless and it took just 10 minutes, five times as long as it would have for me to send a rebate check to my bank. I was that lucky, though, only because I work across the street from a bank.
 Perhaps I'm in the minority in finding all of this a bit too complicated. ''We have seen incredible increased utilization, in terms of people getting the cards down to zero, than we were two years ago,'' Mr. Hoffer said. ''Particularly the Visa and other cards.''
 Brian Riley, the research director at TowerGroup, confirms that overall breakage numbers have fallen in the last year or two, as consumers have gotten wise to the disappearing funds. ''People realize they can lose it,'' he said. ''And the fact that we're in a bad economy gives the $3 a bit more meaning now.''
 If you do end up with an unwanted card, there are a few ways to get rid of it. You could sell or swap it at Web sites like Plastic Jungle, GiftCardRescue and Swapagift, though you'll lose some of the card's value in the process. A charity might take it off your hands, too. 
 If you're going to use the card, try buying something that costs a bit more than the loaded amount, so you're not faced with a tiny leftover balance that you'll be tempted to abandon. If you have a Visa or similar card, calling a catalog merchant with an order may make you feel less sheepish than holding up lines with an in-person split transaction.
 As a giver, it's easy to tune all of this out when buying a card is so much easier than redeeming it. And recipients often treat it like found money; what's a loss of $4 when the $96 you did get to use was money you didn't have before? 
 But we could put an end to all of this waste if the givers got wise to the billions in annual giveaways to retailers and banks and just handed over cash. You're kidding yourself if you think that loading money onto a plastic card is somehow more polite than slipping money into a paper envelope. 
 Nobody neglects to spend cash. The reason they came up with the word breakage is that the gift card system was more than a little bit broken.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nearly $5 billion of the money that is given this year as presents on gift cards is likely to go unspent, a significant windfall for retailers and card issuers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY AVELAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ROBERT NEUBECKER) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CREDIT REGULATION (77%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (90%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



342 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: The Best Way to Cut Carbon Emissions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Cap and Fade'' (Op-Ed, Dec. 7):
 I disagree with several of James Hansen's statements about cap and trade and other approaches to reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
 First, the 1990 Clean Air Act amendments were as stringent as they were only because of the use of cap and trade.
 Second, the lobbyists who support cap and trade (which Mr. Hansen roundly condemns) prominently include the Environmental Defense Fund, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the National Commission on Energy Policy and the United States Climate Action Partnership.
 Third, and most striking, the ''better alternative'' favored by Mr. Hansen, a revenue-neutral carbon tax, is virtually identical in its environmental consequences, economic costs and administrative requirements to an economywide cap-and-trade system among producers and importers of fossil fuels. But there's one important difference, and that is the much greater political acceptance of cap and trade. 
 Robert N. Stavins Cambridge, Mass., Dec. 7, 2009
 The writer is a professor of business and government at the Harvard Kennedy School and director of the Harvard Environmental Economics Program.
 To the Editor: 
 Contrary to James Hansen's claim, the 1990 Clean Air Act has been the most successful environmental law in this nation's history. By using a flexible, market-based approach, we have essentially solved the problem of acid rain -- meeting the program's targets three years ahead of schedule and at a fraction of the expected costs.
 The ''offset'' provisions in climate legislation that he attacks will help save tropical rainforests while making more ambitious reductions affordable. And if anyone benefits most directly from the House bill, it is American families. The legislation sends over 40 percent of the monetary value of allowances (roughly $600 billion in present value through 2050) to households.
 A declining cap on heat-trapping gases is the surest way to tackle climate change. Cap and trade rewards businesses that find better and cheaper ways to cut emissions -- and holds those who don't accountable for their emissions. It unleashes an unending search for innovations that will drive costs down over time. It has worked brilliantly in solving acid rain. Let's get to work on solving climate change.
 Nathaniel O. Keohane Director of Economic Policy and Analysis Environmental Defense Fund New York, Dec. 8, 2009
 To the Editor:
 James Hansen correctly identifies numerous shortcomings with cap and trade, the complex regulatory approach to addressing greenhouse gases. 
 We need only look at the failure of corporate average fuel economy, or CAFE, standards to see that government regulations are inevitably subject to manipulation and unintended consequences in which the regulated entities outwit and outmaneuver the static regulation. Hence, despite cranking down the CAFE standards, sport utility vehicles flourished, reducing overall fuel efficiency.
 The carbon tax proposed by Mr. Hansen would preclude such machinations and unintended consequences. It would allow the markets to determine which uses of carbon provide value sufficient to warrant the real cost of releasing that carbon into the atmosphere. The marketplace would replace those uses failing to provide adequate value with alternative, nonpolluting options.
 Richard J. Osborne Charlotte, N.C., Dec. 8, 2009
 The writer is a retired energy company executive.
 To the Editor:
 Your juxtaposed articles on Monday, ''Cap and Fade,'' by James Hansen, and ''An Affordable Truth,'' by Paul Krugman, leave anyone with a layperson's knowledge of economics and science perplexed. I want to believe in Mr. Krugman's optimism about cap and trade, but Mr. Hansen apparently views it as smoke and mirrors. Yet the latter's article raises more questions than it answers. 
 Mr. Hansen acknowledges the 43 percent reduction in sulfur emissions as a result of a cap-and-trade system, but he does not explain clearly why he says that is not a success. Additionally, his attacks on cap and trade lead one to ask whether the answer is to reduce the cap and close the loopholes (like grandfathering) rather than to jump to a new model that may have just as many loopholes.
 Ann Summer Princeton, N.J., Dec. 7, 2009
 To the Editor: 
 In ''An Affordable Truth,'' Paul Krugman gave the White House his full support for passing cap and trade legislation. But ''Russia's Carbon Credits Seen as Barriers to Warming Curb'' (news article, Dec. 8) shows that cap and trade simply will not work in today's carbon market.
 Cap and trade is based on companies' having to buy carbon credits to minimize carbon emissions. The collapse of the heavy industry in Russia will prove to be the system's fatal flaw as the carbon credits previously owned by Russia will flood the world market, sending the price close to zero.
 It will be more cost-effective for companies to continue or even increase current emissions and pay the negligible price of carbon credits. In effect, Russia has turned into the low-emissions vehicle allowing the rest of the world to continue functioning as the S.U.V., to use James Hansen's analogy.
 Michael Corcoran Patrick Corcoran Garden City South, N.Y., Dec. 8, 2009
 To the Editor:
 In James Hansen's Op-Ed essay (''Cap and Fade'') and Paul Krugman's column (''An Affordable Truth''), a false dichotomy appeared. It does not have to be cap and trade versus carbon tax. There can be both: price controls within cap and trade. Price controls, like a price ceiling and a price floor within a cap-and-trade scheme, can be put into effect.
 The government guarantees to either buy or sell permits at the desired price controls. For example, a price floor addresses Mr. Hansen's point about the possibility that the market price for emissions collapses. A price floor also sustains an incentive for firms to innovate in low-emission technologies. A price ceiling limits the price volatility. On the other hand, letting price fluctuate in the allowable price band allows for a firmer emissions cap.
 In my research I have concluded that if innovation incentives are taken into account, as firms become better in reducing their carbon emissions, a cap-and-trade scheme works better than a carbon tax in the long run.
 But in the meantime we need price controls within cap and trade, which is really Krugman + Hansen.
 Thomas A. Weber Stanford, Calif., Dec. 7, 2009
 The writer is an assistant professor of management science and engineering at Stanford University. 
 To the Editor:
 James Hansen's conclusion that a carbon fee is superior to a carbon cap-and-trade system rests on the assumption that the government can accurately set carbon fees to achieve a desired level of emission reductions.
 Setting this fee requires a precise understanding of how a range of industries will react to new carbon costs. It is unclear how Mr. Hansen expects the government to do this once, let alone repeatedly in response to economic changes.
 Economic downturns naturally result in lower emission levels. Unless the government could quickly change its carbon fee levels, these fees would probably stifle economic growth during a recession. 
 Cap and trade avoids this problem by setting an emissions limit and allowing supply and demand to determine the appropriate carbon price. A market for allowances would automatically respond to changes in economic conditions by adjusting the carbon price, while still maintaining the predetermined emissions cap. 
 Adam Langton Berkeley, Calif., Dec. 7, 2009
 The writer is an energy analyst.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ACID RAIN (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); LOBBYING (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (74%); FAMILY (74%); WRITERS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); HISTORY (67%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RAIN FORESTS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (57%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEFENSE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



343 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Steps to Take Before Cobra Subsidy Ends

BYLINE: By WALECIA KONRAD

 BODY:
Roberta Mason, 63, of Turner, Me., is one of millions of people who are finding themselves in a special kind of health insurance bind -- or will soon.
 This week's column is for people like them.
Laid off from her job as a supervisor in a shoe factory last January, Ms. Mason was able to keep her health insurance under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, known as Cobra, largely because of a federal subsidy that helped make her payments relatively affordable, at $199 a month. 
 But the subsidy, which was part of President Obama's stimulus package passed by Congress in February, lasts only nine months. And Ms. Mason's time is up. In January, her Cobra payment will increase to $550, which is more than half of her $908 monthly unemployment check. 
 Her husband, Douglas, 66, is retired and receives about $1,900 a month in Social Security. His health care is covered by Medicare. But if Ms. Mason has to pay the full price on Cobra, she and her husband will have little left over from their two checks for living expenses. 
 ''For the past nine months I've been looking for another job,'' Ms. Mason said. But, at 63, ''who will want to hire me, let alone give me a job that provides health benefits?''
 Ms. Mason certainly needs the coverage. Her medications for high blood pressure, high cholesterol and chronic bronchitis would add up to hundreds of dollars a month without insurance. 
 ''I've tried to scrape some money together to take care of things when the Cobra subsidy ends, but it's just not enough,'' Ms. Mason said. 
 That government subsidy made Cobra a lot more affordable for millions of unemployed people like Ms. Mason. But now that the subsidy is ending for the first of its recipients, many don't know where to turn. What is more, the way the stimulus act is written, the subsidy will no longer be available to any newly laid-off workers. 
 According to a report recently released by Families USA, a nonprofit health care advocacy group, Cobra premiums for family health coverage will cost laid-off workers, on average, $1,111 a month, which is almost 84 percent of the average monthly unemployment check those families receive.
 In nine states -- including Alaska, Arizona, Mississippi and Florida -- full Cobra benefits exceed the amount of the average unemployment check, according to the report.
 That is why the Cobra subsidy has been so important and why there is a big push in Congress to extend the benefit. Bills were introduced recently in the House and the Senate that would extend the subsidy for six months. Unemployed workers who have lost their subsidy would probably be grandfathered under the legislation and receive a refund for any unsubsidized premiums they pay before the legislation is enacted. 
 If those bills do not move forward, many experts predict that a Cobra extension will become part of the pending jobs bill, which would extend many of the benefits provided by the stimulus package, said Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA. 
 President Obama seemed to confirm that prediction during a news conference on Tuesday when he called for an extension of emergency assistance to the elderly, unemployment insurance benefits, Cobra and relief to states and localities to prevent layoffs. 
 Of course, if your Cobra subsidy is ending in the very near future, all the promises in the world from Washington will not help you pay your premiums in the meantime. So, until there is some definitive action from Capitol Hill, here is what you need to do. 
 AVOID A LAPSE When your subsidy ends, you won't get a lot of notice. Most likely you will simply receive your next Cobra bill in the mail for a much larger amount than you are accustomed to paying. 
 Our advice: Pay it, no matter how much you have to scrimp and borrow.
 If you do not, your Cobra coverage will end immediately. And then the clock immediately starts ticking on interruption of your health care coverage. 
 Under current law, if you have a gap in coverage of 63 days or longer, any insurance carrier from which you might then seek coverage could use any pre-existing health care issues you may have -- like back spasms or heart disease -- as a reason to deny coverage or charge astronomical premiums , far above even the expensive Cobra payments.
 BUY TIME Yes, the full-price Cobra payments are onerous. But if you pay the first month or two, you will be buying time to see if the subsidy is extended and time to shop around for health insurance alternatives that may be more affordable. 
 Check ehealthinsurance.com and healthplanone.com for general pricing information from carriers that provide individual policies in your area. 
 STAY ON TOP OF IT If you're making the switch to full payments, be sure to keep in touch with your Cobra administrator so you will know if Congress grants an extension, and what, if anything, you need to do to get it. 
 Depending on your plan and situation, this person may be a staff member of your former employer's benefits department. Or it may be someone at the insurance company providing your Cobra coverage, or a third-party administrator. Be sure to read through your paperwork and find the person you need to stay in contact with. 
 LOOK FOR REDUCTIONS With or without the subsidy, family Cobra coverage costs much more than individual coverage or coverage for just you and your spouse. 
 Without your regular income, your children may well be eligible for the Children's Health Insurance Program, known as CHIP. It covers children in families that earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, but too little to afford private health insurance. If you can insure your kids through CHIP, Mr. Pollack said, you can significantly reduce your Cobra payment. For more information go to insurekidsnow.gov. 
 NEWLY LAID OFF? If you have been laid off this month and your employer has promised to cover your health care until the end of December, beware: that magnanimity could work against you. 
 The way the law is written, workers are eligible for the subsidy only if they are ''eligible for Cobra'' before Dec. 31, said Kathryn Bakich, national health care compliance director for the Segal Company, a benefits consultant. And simply being laid off in December does not necessarily make you eligible, particularly if your employer-provided coverage is extended through the end of the year. 
 If you have already received a pink slip this month, or you get one, Ms. Bakich suggests contacting your benefits department immediately to see if there is any way your Cobra eligibility can begin this calendar year. 
 Joe Nocera, whose Talking Business column normally appears on this page, is on book leave. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Roberta Mason was laid off last January. Next month, Ms. Mason's Cobra payment will increase to $550, which is more than half of her monthly unemployment check. (B1)
 Roberta Mason was able to keep her health insurance because of a federal subsidy that kept her payments manageable. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HERB SWANSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); LAYOFFS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (72%); FOOTWEAR MFG (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (67%); HYPERTENSION (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%); CHOLESTEROL (51%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009



344 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 GREECE TRIES TO TAME DEBT
 As Its People Grow Restive
 Ever since Greece's credit rating was downgraded last week, the new Socialist government has fought back, saying it has the mettle to tackle the soaring deficit and structural woes that have earned the country a reputation as the weak link in the euro zone. PAGE A4
 CHINA INDICTS DISSIDENT 
 Liu Xiaobo, one of China's best-known dissidents and a principal author of a pro-democracy manifesto that has attracted more than 10,000 signatures from Chinese supporters, was indicted on charges of trying to subvert the state, his lawyer said. PAGE A4
 EUROPE OFFERS CLIMATE AID 
 European Union leaders agreed to pay $10.5 billion over the next three years to help poor countries begin tackling the effects of global warming -- and to improve the odds of reaching an international climate accord next week at a conference in Copenhagen. PAGE A7
 MISSION CHIEF TO RESIGN
 The top United Nations official in Afghanistan, Kai Eide, said that he would leave when his contract expired early next year, as the organization was already looking for a replacement. PAGE A8
 RUSSIAN OFFICER GETS 2 YEARS
 A Russian Interior Ministry officer who shot an opposition journalist in the head was sentenced to two years in a penal colony, a mild punishment for a crime that had a profound impact in the southern republic of Ingushetia. PAGE A9
 Turkey Bans Kurdish Party A7
 Iraq Accepts Bids for Oil Fields A8
 Top Qaeda Operative Is Killed A8
 Obituaries
 MARK RITTS, 63
 He scurried about in a threadbare 30-pound costume with a six-foot tail as the smart-alecky Lester the Rat in ''Beakman's World,'' a wacky but insidiously educational 1990s television science show. PAGE A17
 National
 IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS
 Arrest 300 in California
 Scores of illegal immigrants who had committed serious criminal offenses were deported or detained this week by federal agents in a demonstration of what immigration officials pledged was a new resolve to zero in on the most egregious law-breakers. PAGE A10
 ENERGY PROJECT IS DROPPED
 The company in charge of a California project to extract vast amounts of renewable energy from deep, hot bedrock has dismantled and removed its drill rig and informed federal officials that the project will be abandoned. PAGE A10
 HOUSTON TO VOTE FOR MAYOR
 Houston voters will elect their next mayor in a runoff contest that increasingly has become focused on the sexual orientation of one of the candidates. PAGE A11
 NEW ROADBLOCKS ON HEALTH
 Democratic leaders hit a rough patch in their push for sweeping health care legislation, as they tried to fend off criticism of their proposals from a top Medicare official, Republicans and even members of their own party. PAGE A12
 COURT RULING FAVORS ACORN
 A federal court ruled that the government must continue to provide money to the national community organizing group Acorn.PAGE A12
 New York
 M.T.A. PLANS FOR CUTS 
 In Salaries and Services
 The 6,000 nonunion employees of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority would have their salaries cut by 10 percent and service would be sharply reduced under a plan to plug the authority's $340 million budget deficit, said an official familiar with the plan. PAGE A13
 LESSONS FROM THE RECESSION
 The financial crisis has brought upheaval to many corners of American life, but not on college campuses, where the turmoil is embraced as a valuable teaching tool. PAGE A15
 Business
 REDEEM THE ENTIRE CARD,
 Or You Gift the Store Too
 Like it or not, gift cards are now a fixture of the holiday season. But if you buy a gift card for a family member or friend, there's a good chance you'll give a little gift to the retailer or bank that issued it as well. PAGE B1
 CRACKING DOWN ON BONUSES
 After France joined Britain's move to clamp down on bonuses at banks, the president of the European Central Bank stepped up the pressure even more, attacking the ''so-called bonus culture'' as a route to selfishness. PAGE B3
 CALLS TO DELAY MADOFF CASE
 Federal prosecutors have asked the courts in New York to delay civil litigation against one of Bernard L. Madoff's largest investors to permit a ''parallel criminal investigation'' to be resolved, according to documents. PAGE B3
 P.& G. Sees World as Client B1
 A First Flight for a Plane B3
 arts 
 A FORMER MET DIRECTOR
 With Populist Instincts
 Tom Hoving will be remembered for changing art museums from places where people went to commune with art into places ''where art 'happens' '' during his tenure as the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in the 1960s and '70s. PAGE C1
 THE JACKSONS ON REALITY TV
 Michael Jackson appears in ''The Jacksons: A Family Dynasty'' only as a voice on the soundtrack and a face in music videos. But in his absence he's everywhere, dominating the program in a way he wouldn't have had he lived to see it completed, Mike Hale writes. PAGE C1
 JUNG'S INNER UNIVERSE
 Journey into the life of Carl G. Jung in a private chronicle he kept for 16 years that will be displayed at the Rubin Museum of Art in Manhattan: ''The Red Book of C. G. Jung: Creation of a New Cosmology,'' until mid-February. PAGE C1
 Sports
 DUNGY TAKES TO NEW ROLE
 As Football's Conscience
 In his first season since retiring as one of the National Football League's most successful coaches, Tony Dungy has transformed into an amalgam of minister to wayward players and commentator on the state of the game. PAGE D1
 SKATING ROYALTY RETURNS
 Claudia Pechstein, a five-time Olympian from Germany, received a smattering of applause from spectators after speedskating in the 3,000 meters in a World Cup event at the Utah Olympic Oval. Skepticism surrounded her participation after abnormal blood test results. PAGE D3
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A19
 CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); CLIMATOLOGY (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); MEDICARE (73%); EURO ZONE (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); DEPORTATION (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (67%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); LEGISLATION (66%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (65%); HEALTH CARE LAW (65%); SENTENCING (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (63%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) EUROPE (94%); GREECE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); IRAQ (79%); TURKEY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



345 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: What New Orleans Needs

 BODY:
The real estate industry and some Louisiana politicians have been promoting the fiction that New Orleans has all the housing it needs and should be allowed to divert hundreds of millions of dollars in federal aid from desperately needed affordable housing to projects like building roads and clearing abandoned buildings. 
 That would spell disaster for the tens of thousands of low-wage workers -- full-time restaurant workers, home health care aides and maintenance workers -- and the New Orleans economy that depends on them. 
 A new analysis by the nonpartisan Greater New Orleans Community Data Center shows that nearly half of the area's work force earns less than $35,000 a year. Nearly 9 in 10 of the households earning between $20,000 and $35,000 a year have been priced out of the private market in Orleans Parish, where the gross rents have jumped more than 40 percent between 2004 and 2008. 
 City officials should be especially worried by statistics showing that area residents are more likely to pay at least half of their household incomes on rent and utilities than renters in more expensive cities like Phoenix, Las Vegas and New York. Unaffordable rent hurts the economy. It forces people to skimp on health care, leading them to rely more on government-subsidized emergency rooms. Families struggling with high rents move more often, which leads to reduced productivity, high employee turnover rates and increased worker training costs. 
 With rents so high, no one should be surprised that the homeless population of the New Orleans area appears to have doubled since Hurricane Katrina. A startling census of the homeless by a local social services consortium, Unity of Greater New Orleans, estimates that nearly 6,500 people, many of them elderly and suffering from debilitating illnesses, are living in abandoned buildings. 
 New Orleans will never fully recover unless it builds more affordable housing. Doing so would require help from Washington. The Department of Housing and Urban Development can help by making sure that Louisiana does not divert disaster money to less important projects. Congress can do its part by extending the life of the federal Gulf tax credit program, which would give developers a strong incentive to build thousands of affordable apartments. 
 Louisiana must take responsibility by making sure planned affordable housing developments get built and by using Section 8 rent vouchers to make vacant, market-rate apartments affordable to low-income families. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); STATISTICS (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); HURRICANES (71%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); HOMELESSNESS (69%); TAX LAW (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



346 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: China Is Thriving, Its Economic Data Shows

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Data released by China on Friday provided fresh evidence that the nation's economic recovery was gaining momentum, helped by government stimulus measures and lending by state-run banks over the last year. 
 China's authorities were quick to prime the economy in the wake of last year's global financial crisis, and gross domestic product is forecast to grow more than 8 percent this year -- vastly more than in the United States, Europe or Japan -- despite a sharp decline in exports.
 On Friday, data for November showed industrial output soared 19.2 percent from a year ago, while imports jumped 26.7 percent. Exports were 1.2 percent below those of November 2008, but that shortfall was slight compared with the year-over-year declines of more than 10 percent in previous months.
 Much of the increases now appearing in year-on-year economic statistics worldwide compare well to grim year-earlier figures, but often still remain well below precrisis levels.
 China's exports, for example, totaled $113.7 billion in November, and imports were $94.6 billion. That is below the levels of $134.9 billion and $106.2 billion, respectively, recorded in August 2008, before Lehman Brothers collapsed.
 ''China's continued strong year-on-year monthly data released today were largely driven by base effects,'' said Li-Gang Liu, China economist at ANZ in Hong Kong. ''November 2008 was the second consecutive month that most of these indicators experienced significant declines after the eruption of the global financial crisis. On a month-on-month basis, growth momentum remained steady.''
 Still, the output and import data released Friday exceeded analysts' expectations and showed that domestic demand was firmer than many had projected. Retail sales climbed 15.8 percent over a year earlier, only slightly less than in October. Inflation has begun to emerge as a result: consumer prices rose 0.6 percent in November, the first increase since January.
 The surge in imports, fueled by the government spending and China's huge appetite for commodities, has caused the nation's trade surplus to shrink, to $19.1 billion in November from $24 billion in October. Some analysts say they believe China could even post a trade deficit next year.
 ''Trade deficits are inevitable,'' economists at Societe Generale said in a report presented on Thursday in Hong Kong. ''The price of China's exports should remain relatively stable in 2010 and 2011 whilst the price of China's imports should pick up dramatically.'' 
 Amid mounting signs that the government-led spending boom could worsen overcapacity in the industrial sector, Beijing has begun to rein in some stimulus measures, albeit very carefully. 
 Bank lending in November, for example, nudged up to 294.8 billion renminbi ($43.2 billion) from 253 billion renminbi in October, but was well below levels seen earlier this year. The authorities have taken several steps -- scrapping tax breaks, for instance -- to curb ballooning property prices.
 Beijing remains concerned about the sustainability of growth, and most China watchers do not expect Beijing to raise interest rates outright or to allow the renminbi to strengthen against the dollar until well into next year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An electric bike factory in Anhui Province in China. Industrial production jumped 19.2 percent in November over the year-ago period. Retail sales were also strong, soaring 15.8 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); STATISTICS (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INFLATION (77%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (69%); RETAIL SALES (67%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) EAST CHINA (58%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%); ANHUI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



347 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Europe Offers Billions to Help Poor Nations Tackle Climate Change

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER and ANDREW C. REVKIN; James Kanter reported from Brussels, and Andrew C. Revkin from Copenhagen. Tom Zeller contributed reporting from Copenhagen, and John M. Broder from Washington.

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
European Union leaders agreed Friday to pay $10.5 billion over the next three years to help poor countries begin tackling the effects of global warming -- and to improve the odds of reaching an international climate accord next week at a conference in Copenhagen.
 But the developing world also wants industrial powers to provide long-term financing of more than $100 billion each year by the end of the next decade. European Union leaders left unanswered how much they would give in the longer term. 
The push in Brussels, where the European Union is based, came as negotiators in Copenhagen who were convened by the United Nations issued an informal outline of a new climate agreement. The outline sought to pull together a growing stream of conflicting proposals from nations involved in the climate treaty talks.
 The outline calls for wealthy nations to commit themselves to sharp reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions in the next decade, and for all nations to seek jointly to nearly eliminate the emissions by 2050.
 But the disagreements on vital numbers remained wide, and sections of the outline on some contested issues were left entirely blank. Among the sidestepped items were long-term goals for financing the deal.
 Expressing skepticism at a briefing, Todd Stern, the top American negotiator, said the proposal lacked any language requiring emerging economic powers like China and India to take concrete steps to curb emissions.
 Mr. Stern said that the United States would demand such a commitment, given that nearly all of the growth in emissions of greenhouse gases in the coming decades is projected to come from such countries.
 Still, he struck a note of optimism. He said that after months of one-on-one discussions with counterparts from China, he was confident that there was ''language we could both agree to, if we can get to the serious stage.'' 
 The European Union's pledge to contribute to a global climate fund -- one that the United Nations has said should add up to $30 billion over the next three years -- is one of the largest financing efforts announced so far. 
 The pledge ''is a very clear message indeed to Copenhagen that we are more than ready to assume our share of responsibility,'' Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said at a news conference in Brussels after a meeting of European Union heads of state and government. 
 In Copenhagen, some of the smallest and most vulnerable countries -- island states facing the prospect of centuries of rising seas in a warming world -- fired off a warning shot in the form of a new draft text of their own. They called for the proposed ceiling for a rise in global temperature accepted by most nations to be lowered by 0.5 degrees Celsius.
 The world's industrialized countries and emerging economic powers have pledged in the past year to work to limit warming to less than 2 degrees Celsius (or 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above where temperatures stood in the 1800s. 
 Even that target will be tough to reach, many climate scientists say.
 Money is central to the demands by poor nations. Most African countries and small island states have demanded aid as a condition for signing a new pact to replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012.
 The European Union has led efforts to raise money for what is known as a fast-start fund, with its contributions meant to be joined by donations from other advanced nations, including the United States.
 But it is not yet clear if or when the money will be available.
 The Obama administration has asked Congress for $1.2 billion for adaptation, technology transfer and clean-energy projects in the developing world. But Congress has not yet acted on the request.
 The rest of the hoped-for American contribution could come from a government auction of emissions permits as part of a cap-and-trade system for limiting emissions by American industries. But legislation on such a system is stuck in the Senate.
 In Brussels, Mrs. Merkel warned Friday that long-term financing for developing countries would be crucial to any deal next week. ''This is the biggest headache to me,'' she said.
 She also suggested that the United States needed to commit to long-term financing before the European Union clarified how much it would put on the table.
 Advocacy groups and some environmental campaigners called the pledges inadequate.
 Tim Gore, a climate change adviser for Oxfam, a group that fights poverty, said the offer was ''mostly a recycling of past promises and payments that have already been made,'' and would siphon financing from other areas.
 Fredrik Reinfeldt, the Swedish prime minister, acknowledged that the pledges were ''a combination of new and old resources.''
 This weekend, attention is expected to shift back to Copenhagen, where environment ministers are to negotiate. Police officers there have begun bracing for several planned protests. 
 At least 76 protesters were arrested Friday in the city center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); EMISSIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (89%) EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



348 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Signs Bill to Rein In State's Free-Spending Public Authorities

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
After years of debate and a string of corruption scandals, state officials moved on Friday to impose sweeping new oversight provisions on the state's hundreds of public authorities, which have long functioned as a virtual shadow government largely immune to public accountability. 
 The law, passed by the Legislature this month and signed by Gov. David A. Paterson on Friday, was hailed by government watchdog groups as one of the most significant reforms in decades. It was one of the few such efforts led chiefly by the Legislature, long a place where bills intended to promote greater government accountability go to wither and die. 
 Public authorities have been a powerful yet inscrutable force in New York for decades, charged with running the state's highways and mass transit systems, spearheading economic development and managing power plants. They range from the sprawling Metropolitan Transportation Authority to the small Oneida-Herkimer Solid Waste Authority.
 ''Today, we return to the control of the people of the state their most powerful institutions,'' said Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat, who was a chief sponsor of the new legislation. ''If you go to school in New York City, you use the School Construction Authority. If you go to a hospital, you use the Health and Hospitals Corporation. The subways. The buses. The lives of New Yorkers are impacted by the operations of state authorities to an infinitely greater extent than they are by the departments of state government.''
 For the first time, board members of those authorities will have a legal obligation, known as a fiduciary duty, to protect the interests and mission of the authorities they supervise, rather than being beholden to the mayors, governors and legislative leaders who appoint them. The new law will require authorities to seek approval from the state comptroller for most contracts of over $1 million that are not competitively bid. 
 The legislation also vastly expanded a small state office charged with overseeing the authorities known as the Authority Budget Office. It received the power to subpoena authorities, initiate the suspension or removal of board members and compel authorities to propose a plan that would reduce the amount of debt they issue.
 Mr. Paterson said that passing the law this year was crucial because of the state's perilous fiscal condition, which the public authorities have added to with the enormous amount of debt they have taken on. Taxpayers have almost no say over that debt, but are ultimately responsible for it. Public authorities have between $140 billion and $150 billion in debt -- significantly more than the state's entire annual budget. 
 ''Public authorities play a tremendous role in government,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''But for a very long period of time, they have operated really without any oversight and operated very much in the dark, and often have amassed crippling back-door financing that has threatened the stability of our economy.''
 Mr. Brodsky, who spent months battling New York City officials over the legality of public financing for the new Yankee Stadium, said that if the law had been in effect, it would have forced far more transparency on city officials as they negotiated the Yankees deal.
 ''Three billion dollars in taxpayer-backed debt was issued by 12 anonymous people who were essentially doing the bidding of the mayor,'' Mr. Brodsky said, referring to the board of the New York City Industrial Development Agency, which issued the bonds on behalf of the Yankees, the wealthiest team in baseball.
 The bill's passage was a defeat for the Bloomberg administration, which initially sought to block it and later negotiated some modifications. 
 Under the new law, authorities, some of which have acquired significant and, in some cases, secret real estate holdings, will also face limits on the sale of real property. With some exceptions, authorities will no longer be allowed to sell real estate for below-market value, as the Metropolitan Transportation Authority did when it sold rights to build over railyards in Brooklyn to the developers of the Atlantic Yards project.
 In theory, authorities are designed to perform some of the duties of public agencies with the nimbleness of private corporations, issuing tax-free debt to build large infrastructure projects like schools and airports, stimulate urban renewal and manage public facilities like bridges and parking garages. Many of them, like the New York State Thruway Authority or the transportation agency, collect tolls or other fees to finance their activities 
 But once created by the Legislature, public authorities face neither the accountability of elected officials nor the market pressures of truly private enterprises. Board members usually could not be removed for anything less than legal violations. And investigations by legislative committees and others in recent years revealed a string of abuses.
 In 2002, for example, a subsidiary of the Thruway Authority quietly sold the rights to develop 45 miles of prime Erie Canal shoreline for just $30,000, a deal that was scrapped after it came to light.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As he signed a bill providing greater oversight of public authorities, Gov. David Paterson was flanked by legislators and supporters of the measure. He said the authorities had too much debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SUBPOENAS (72%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); URBANIZATION (69%); POWER PLANTS (68%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (66%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



349 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: In the Arts, Bigger Buildings May Not Be Better

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Within months of its opening in 1997, Frank Gehry's Guggenheim Museum Bilbao had given the language a new term and the world a new way of looking at culture. The ''Bilbao effect,'' many came to believe, was the answer to what ailed cities everywhere -- it was a way to lure tourists and economic development -- and a potential boon to cultural institutions. 
 Municipal governments and arts groups were soon pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into larger, flashier exhibition spaces and performance halls. 
 Now the economic downturn has reined in a lot of these big dreams and has also led to questions about whether ambitious building projects from Buffalo to Berkeley ever made sense to begin with. Some are arguing that arts administrators and their patrons succumbed to an irrational exuberance that rivaled the stock market's in the boom years. 
 Organizations were ''blinded by the excitement of what it would be like to have this great new facility,'' said D. Carroll Joynes, a senior fellow at the University of Chicago's Cultural Policy Center. 
 The recession, he said he believed, is not solely to blame for a recent wave of projects that have been delayed (like additions to the St. Louis Art Museum, the Cincinnati Art Museum and the Columbus Museum of Art); scaled back (like the new building of the Parrish Art Museum in Southampton, N.Y.); put into question (the new Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center and the renovation of the New York Public Library's main Fifth Avenue branch); or abandoned altogether (the expansion of the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo). 
 In Mr. Joynes's view, ''The recession is exposing the weakness of a lot of institutions that were seriously overstretched'' before it began. 
 ''It's exposing poor management and poor planning,'' said Mr. Joynes, who is collaborating on a study of 50 cultural building projects completed from 1994 to 2008 and their planning processes. These were situations, he added, in which ''nobody actually asked: 'Is there a need here? If they build it, will they come?' '' 
 Last month the University of California abandoned plans for a new 140,000-square-foot Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive. The project, designed by the high-profile Japanese architect Toyo Ito, was intended to replace a smaller existing building that does not meet seismic standards, but also to do much more: with its towering windows, huge interior spaces and curvaceous steel exterior, it was destined to become ''an icon for the entire Bay Area,'' Berkeley's chancellor, Robert J. Birgeneau, said in 2008. 
 Less than half of the $200 million needed to build the Ito design had been raised, from private donors and the university, and the new economic reality put additional fund-raising in serious doubt.
 But the museum was worried about more than just construction costs. While new wings and buildings can lead to increases in both visitors and donations, at least at first, they can also be a major drain on an organization's operating budget. 
 ''What has been thought of as a short-term asset can be a long-term problem,'' said Jonathan Katz, the chief executive of the National Assembly of State Arts Agencies. ''Facilities cost money to operate, and they deteriorate. The facility itself becomes a series of expenditures.''
 Lawrence R. Rinder, the museum's director, said the decision to build the Ito design came out of a ''well-reasoned expectation'' of what was financially possible before the recession. Still, he acknowledged, ''the ongoing economic shock inspired us to evaluate not only the shorter-term capital campaign but also strategies for sustainable operation.'' 
 The building, he said, would have increased operating costs 10 to 20 percent above the $8 million the museum now spends annually on all its operations. It is in the process of coming up with a ''smaller-scale'' plan for a new home, he added, which will probably cost about as much as the current building to operate. 
 Most arts professionals describe their building projects as born of necessity: they needed larger galleries to bring permanent collections out of storage; they needed audience amenities like larger restrooms and upgraded air-conditioning to draw ticket buyers; they needed a building that was up to current code. But some concede that it was hard not to be caught up in what Mr. Joynes called the ''frenzy of building'' made possible by the booming economy and spurred on by highly visible projects like Walt Disney Concert Hall, the expanded Museum of Modern Art and the new Alice Tully Hall.
 ''Museums, when they saw how much money other museums were raising, said, 'Oh, we can't miss out on this,' '' said Terry Riley, a former head of the Museum of Modern Art's department of architecture and design, who helped oversee that museum's renovation by Yoshio Taniguchi. In many cases, he added, ''it's almost as though money drove the decision.'' 
 Maxwell Anderson, the director of the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which finished a major expansion in 2006 and is now completing a 100-acre park, said that ''in part, all of us have been watching how these projects are perceived.''
 ''There is a keeping-up-with-the-Joneses quality to museum building,'' he continued. 
 The Dia Art Foundation, which once had big plans for a 34,000-square-foot, column-free space at the entrance to the High Line in New York -- before losing a board chairman who was also its main benefactor in 2006 -- announced last month that it would instead build a 25,000-square-foot space on the site of a former garage it already owns on West 22nd Street in Chelsea.
 Philippe Vergne, who became Dia's director last year, defended the original plans: ''It was what the world was -- more was more.'' But the recession ''forced us to slow down'' and really consider institutional needs, he said. What the foundation wants now is a simple, utilitarian space that makes art the main event.
 ''I want the ambition to be for the program, not the building -- not, 'Let's go big because we're addicted to big,' '' Mr. Vergne said. 
 The economic downturn has had this effect on a lot of arts organizations, said Adrian Ellis, the executive director of Jazz at Lincoln Center and the founder of AEA Consulting, a leading arts consultant. 
 ''Cultural buildings became the way in which cities articulate their identity and vitality -- they were driven not by the artistic community but by a civic agenda,'' he said. Now the economy is pushing organizations into ''deep reflection about what their purpose is and how best to realize it,'' he said -- reflection that can lead back to an arts-focused agenda, and to a renewed concern about ''protecting their capacity to take artistic risks.''
 ''When you overexpand, you limit your ability to take those risks,'' Mr. Ellis said. ''Although expansion is usually seen as a sign of health, it is not always a sign of vitality.'' 
 Mr. Joynes, of the University of Chicago, said that his study of cultural building projects aimed to explore this issue. ''Do you do many more 'Swan Lakes' and take fewer chances artistically because you have big bills to pay?'' he asked.
 Cultural agencies and foundations are also reflecting on the institutions they help finance, albeit in more practical terms. 
 ''We have become increasingly concerned about the sustainability of organizations as a result of these building projects,'' said Alice L. Carle, program director of the Kresge Foundation, which supports nonprofit organizations nationwide. Ms. Carle said her foundation had decided to prioritize ''renovation and repair projects over new construction and large expansions.''
 ''We're more interested in helping shore up what organizations have already built,'' she said.
 Many institutions, of course, managed to complete their big projects before the downturn, though some may be experiencing builders' remorse. For example, the $461 million Carnival Center for the Performing Arts in Miami, designed by Cesar Pelli -- whose vision statement promised it would transform the city into ''the cultural capital of the Americas''-- ended its first year, in October 2007, with a $2.5 million operating deficit, thanks to low ticket sales and high operating costs. (It has been kept afloat with the help of a $30 million gift from a philanthropist, Adrienne Arsht, for whom the center has been renamed.) 
 In Chicago, the Spertus Institute of Jewish Studies owes $43.6 million of the $51.6 million it borrowed for its new building on South Michigan Avenue, completed two years ago. The institute's galleries are now open only on alternate Sundays and the second Thursday of every month, its Wolfgang Puck kosher cafe is closed, and 26 percent of the staff has been cut. 
 The institute had expected income from event rentals and catering to help with revenue, and still hopes to find organizations that want to share the space. ''We counted on a whole lot of weddings, bar mitzvahs, private parties,'' said Hal M. Lewis, who became president and chief executive of Spertus in July. ''These have materialized with less intensity than anticipated.''
 Mr. Lewis, who was not around when the decision to build was made, says it was well intentioned, but describes the result as ''an operating model and a debt service that requires us to live beyond our means.'' Much of his energy these days is spent on efforts to change that result, though he tries not to dwell on what might not have been.
 ''I wish my hair would grow back too, but I don't spend a lot of time worrying about it,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''Now I've got to go on.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 25, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Dec. 12 about building projects by arts institutions that have been delayed or canceled because of the economic downturn erroneously included one museum among those that have delayed plans to build additions. The Columbus Museum of Art says that while fund-raising has been delayed for its addition, the project itself has not.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a rendering of a plan, now canceled, for a new university museum in Berkeley, Calif. Left and above, the Spertus Institute of Jewish Studies in Chicago, which owes $43.6 million of the $51.6 million borrowed for its new building.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM ZBAREN
 TONY DEJAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); LIBRARIES (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (77%) BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



350 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Senate Hits New Roadblocks on Health Care Bill

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Democratic leaders hit a rough patch Friday in their push for sweeping health care legislation, as they tried to fend off criticism of their proposals from a top Medicare official, Republicans and even members of their own party.
 Slogging through a 12th day of debate on the legislation, the Senate found itself at an impasse over a proposal to allow imports of low-cost prescription drugs from Canada and other countries. 
 Democratic leaders tried to kill or neuter the proposal, offered by a senior Democrat, Senator Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota. 
 The Medicare official, meanwhile, said that total national health spending would increase slightly as a result of the Senate bill, put together by the majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada. President Obama has repeatedly said that one of his top goals is to slow the growth of health costs. 
 Richard S. Foster, the chief actuary of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said Friday that under Mr. Reid's bill national health spending from 2010 to 2019 would total $35.5 trillion. That is $234 billion, or 0.7 percent, more than the amount projected under current law, he added.
 To help pay for coverage of the uninsured, the bill would impose new fees on health insurance companies and manufacturers of brand-name prescription drugs and medical devices. Mr. Foster said the fees would increase national health spending by $11 billion a year because the fees ''would generally be passed through to consumers in the form of higher drug and device prices and higher insurance premiums.''
 Republicans said Mr. Foster's report confirmed what they had been saying for months.
 ''It is a remarkable report,'' said Senator Mike Johanns, Republican of Nebraska. ''It is a roundhouse blow to the Reid plan.''
 Mr. Reid focused on other parts of the report that said the Senate bill would slow the growth of Medicare premiums and extend the life of the Medicare trust fund by nine years, so it would be exhausted in 2026, rather than 2017.
 Centrist senators raised concerns about a major new element of the legislation, which would expand Medicare to cover some people ages 55 to 64. 
 Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, said Democrats were moving to expand Medicare ''without really understanding the ramifications.''
 ''I just don't think it's a policy we should embrace,'' said Ms. Snowe, who discussed health care with President Obama in two private White House meetings in the last week.
 The No. 2 Democrat in the Senate, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, said Friday that he did not know details of the proposal put together by Mr. Reid in an effort to break an impasse over the legislation.
 Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said Republicans were exasperated because they did not know any details of Mr. Reid's proposal, which could affect one-sixth of the economy. 
 Responding to Mr. McCain on the Senate floor, Mr. Durbin said, ''I would say to the senator from Arizona that I am in the dark almost as much as he is, and I am in the leadership.'' 
 ''Most of us know the fundamentals, but we don't know the important details,'' Mr. Durbin added. He said the secrecy was frustrating to Democrats as well as to Republicans.
 Senate Democrats are waiting for the Congressional Budget Office to complete a cost analysis of the legislation. 
 The No. 3 Democrat in the Senate, Charles E. Schumer of New York, said, ''It is very, very possible there will have to be some readjustment'' of the bill after the budget office finishes its work.
 While Democrats appeared to be on the defensive Friday and Republicans were buoyant, the mood on Capitol Hill can shift quickly. Lawmakers said the health care debate would take many twists and turns before reaching a conclusion. 
 Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, said he was confident that Senate Democrats could muster the 60 votes they would need.
 Mr. Schumer said: ''We're struggling to come together on the most difficult issue America has ever faced, and we're really getting close to the finish line. We've had our disagreements, but it has not been poisonous in any way.''
 Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, said: ''This debate is not about health care. This is an ideological battle driven by the right wing of the Republican Party.''
 Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, said Republicans were stalling the health care bill because obstruction was a ''cash cow'' for their party.
 ''Their tactics fire up their base, who show their appreciation by writing checks -- lots of checks,'' Ms. Stabenow said in a fund-raising letter. ''The donations have been pouring in. And they are using those donations to distort the truth and attack Democratic senators who support the health insurance reform bill.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Sheldon Whitehouse, left, Charles E. Schumer and Robert Menendez, all Democrats, at a news conference on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); HEALTH CARE LAW (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MEDICARE (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (73%); INSURANCE (71%); DRUG PRICES (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); MEDICAL DEVICES (70%); MEDICAID (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); BYRON DORGAN (59%); BOB MENENDEZ (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (59%); MIKE JOHANNS (59%); SHELDON WHITEHOUSE (59%); RICHARD DURBIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



351 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Cuba Detains a U.S. Contractor Who Was Distributing Electronics

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY and GINGER THOMPSON; Marc Lacey reported from Havana, and Ginger Thompson from Washington. Kitty Bennett contributed research.

DATELINE: HAVANA 

 BODY:
A United States government contract worker, who was distributing cellphones, laptops and other communications equipment in Cuba on behalf of the Obama administration, has been detained by the authorities here, American officials said Friday.
 The officials said the contractor, who works for a company based in the Washington suburbs, was detained Dec. 5. They said the United States Interests Section in Havana was awaiting Cuba's response to a request for consular access to the man, who was not identified.
 The detention and the mysterious circumstances surrounding it threaten to reignite tensions between the countries at a time when both had promised to open new channels of engagement. American officials said they were encouraged that the Cubans had not publicized the detention, and they said they were hopeful that he might be quietly released. 
 Cuba has allowed more citizens than ever to buy cellphones and computers, but even the limited access to digital technology that is available has created problems for the government. Cuban officials have shown particular concern about Yoani Sanchez, a prominent government critic who keeps in touch with thousands of followers with a blog and a Twitter account. 
 Recently, the Cuban government denied Ms. Sanchez a visa to accept a prestigious journalism award in New York. President Obama has also made a guest appearance on her blog, sending written answers to questions she submitted to him.
 American programs to promote democracy in Cuba have also been the focus of intense debate in the United States. A 2006 report by the Government Accountability Office found that nearly all of the $74 million that the United States Agency for International Development spent on contracts to foster democracy in Cuba over the previous decade had been distributed, without competitive bidding or oversight, to Cuban-exile organizations in Miami rather than groups in Cuba itself.
 Groups financed by the program, the G.A.O. found, made questionable purchases, including cashmere sweaters and Godiva chocolates.
 In 2008, the Bush administration sought to overhaul the program, promising to award contracts to groups beyond those in Florida and to devote most of the budget to buying communications equipment to help expand Cubans' access to information.
 The detention of the unidentified American contractor, some Cuba experts said, demonstrated that President Raul Castro of Cuba had not abandoned the hard-line tactics used for years by his older brother, Fidel, to stifle dissent.
 ''Under Cuba's draconian laws,'' said Jose Miguel Vivanco of Human Rights Watch, ''even the act of handing out cellphones to government critics can be considered a crime.''
 Still, Mr. Vivanco and others said that the contractor's covert conduct -- which included entering Cuba on a tourist visa without proper documents -- also raised questions about whether Mr. Obama would fulfill his promise to break with the confrontational tactics that Washington has employed toward Havana for five decades.
 ''President Obama's been different in some areas,'' said Phil Peters, a Cuba expert and a vice president of the Lexington Institute, a nonpartisan think tank. ''But most of his policy remains the Bush policy, and this is just another example of that.''
 The detainee, officials said, was employed by Development Alternatives Inc., which had at least $391,000 in government contracts last year. Based in Bethesda, Md., the company is a kind of do-it-all development company that provides services to the United States government in countries around the world.
 Company officials did not respond Friday to requests for comment. On its Web site, the company describes the breadth of its activities, saying, ''We help hillside farmers raise their incomes in Haiti, strengthen the credit system for Moroccan entrepreneurs, harmonize natural resource use in the Philippines, mitigate conflict in Liberia, and foster responsive local governments in Serbia.''
 It was unclear exactly what the company's employee was doing at the time he was detained. 
 Cellphones and computers are available for sale in Cuba, prompting some to question why Cuba decided to crack down on an activity that has long been treated as more of an annoyance than a crime. When it comes to satellite phones, however, the Cubans have taken a far harder line. 
 Mr. Obama had promised a more open relationship with Cuba, announcing not long after taking office that he would lift restrictions on travel to Cuba for Americans with relatives on the island. He has expanded cultural and academic exchanges between the United States and Cuba. And he began high-level talks on migration, drug trafficking and postal services with the Cuban authorities, discussions that President Bush had halted.
 But in recent weeks relations seem to have hit a new stalemate, with Mr. Obama signaling that he was reluctant to create more diplomatic openings until Cuban officials demonstrated a willingness to address the country's poor human rights record.
 Ricardo Alarcon, the speaker of Cuba's National Assembly, said he had heard nothing about the detention of the American. He termed the policy changes instituted so far by Mr. Obama as ''minor'' and described the White House as too distracted by other issues to focus attention on Cuba.
 ''You have two wars,'' he said. ''You have the economy. You have the debate on health care. It is clear to me that the administration is not prepared at this moment to give a priority to the relationship with Cuba.''
 Congress is considering bills that would lift restrictions on travel to Cuba for all Americans. Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee, added his name last week to a long list of co-sponsors of the measure. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Relatives of Cuban detainees protesting their confinement, right, were confronted by angry supporters of the Cuban government in Havana on International Human Rights Day on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANKLIN REYES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTS LAW (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (66%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); JOURNALISM (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: GODIVA CHOCOLATIER INC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311352 CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED CHOCOLATE (64%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (64%); SIC5441 CANDY, NUT, & CONFECTIONERY STORES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RAUL CASTRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



352 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: New Boss, Same as the Old Boss: Howard Zinn Traces Social Change

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
In Howard Zinn's new documentary, ''The People Speak,'' the actress Marisa Tomei is shown reading aloud an essay by a worker at a 19th-century textile mill in Lowell, Mass., who led other women to protest wage reductions and demand better working conditions.
 In the woman's description of oppression at the hands of a company, Mr. Zinn, the left-wing historian, hears both past and present tense. ''She says the same thing of the 1830s that we hear today -- that you are at the mercy of your employer,'' Mr. Zinn said in an interview. 
 So much of Mr. Zinn's career, reflected in his ''People's History of the United States'' book, has been about the struggle for social change. With ''The People Speak,'' which has its premiere on the History Channel on Sunday (at 8 p.m., Eastern and Pacific times; 7, Central time), he is having a raft of celebrities recount that effort through the words of people who were there. ''It's the people's point of view of history,'' said the actor Josh Brolin, an executive producer of the film.
 Onstage and on camera, Benjamin Bratt reads a farmer's grievances during Shays's Rebellion. Matt Damon reads from ''The Grapes of Wrath.'' Morgan Freeman reads from ''The Meaning of July Fourth for the Negro,'' a speech by Frederick Douglass. 
 ''Once you get the actors reading these things, it really brings the history alive,'' Mr. Damon said in an interview last month, amid a college tour to promote the film.
 Some of the readings, like Ms. Tomei's, are especially resonant now, given the perceptible anger in the country about banks and bailouts. ''That's by design,'' Mr. Damon said. ''What they were up against oftentimes are exactly the same things we're up against now.''
 One scene in the two-hour film tells the story of an organizer who encouraged tenants to protest evictions during the Great Depression. Similarly, in the current economic downturn, ''We've seen examples of people rebelling,'' Mr. Zinn, 87, said. ''We've seen tenants rebelling against foreclosures. This is the kind of thing that happened in a much larger scale in the 1930s.''
 He added, ''If this spreads -- the idea of fighting foreclosures, the idea of workers going on strike -- it's possible this can lead into a larger movement for economic justice.''
 The film most closely correlates with Mr. Zinn's ''Voices of a People's History of the United States,'' a five-year-old compilation of primary-source material. The readings were selected from the book and recorded at sites across the country. 
 At the performances ''there were a lot of readings that really struck a chord because of the way that people are feeling right now,'' Mr. Damon said.
 Other contributors included Viggo Mortensen, Sean Penn and Kerry Washington. Between readings, Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen, John Legend and other artists performed historical songs.
 The project appealed to the History Channel partly because ''primary sources are a real driving force for us right now,'' said Nancy Dubuc, the channel's president and general manager.
 For History, ''People Speak'' is part of a big-event series strategy to increase viewership. In 2008 the channel's eyewitness recounting of the Sept. 11 attacks, ''102 Minutes That Changed America,'' set ratings records for it. More recently, History showed the 10-hour ''WWII in HD'' on five consecutive nights and drew an average of 2.4 million viewers per night.
 Next year History plans a 12-hour series called ''America: The Story of Us,'' which is intended to ''tell the entire history'' of the country, Ms. Dubuc said. 
 ''The People Speak'' is more intimate. For the filmmakers it is about the fight for equality; Chris Moore, a producer, said the film embodies the phrase ''democracy is not a spectator sport.'' The filmmakers are developing school curriculum materials for the film and releasing an extended version on DVD.
 ''I'm a big believer that history is not the story of millions, but that history is a million stories,'' Ms. Dubuc said. ''This illustrates that better than anything we've ever done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marisa Tomei with the historian Howard Zinn in ''The People Speak,'' to be shown on the History Channel on Sunday night.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT SAYLES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FORECLOSURE (86%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); STRIKES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TEXTILE MFG (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TEXTILE MILLS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); FABRIC MILLS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (65%); EVICTION (65%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (65%); BAILOUTS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: MATT DAMON (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: The People Speak (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



353 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Running Aground: Geothermal Project Is Shut Down

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

 BODY:
The company in charge of a California project to extract vast amounts of renewable energy from deep, hot bedrock has removed its drill rig and informed federal officials that the government project will be abandoned.
 The project by the company, AltaRock Energy, was the Obama administration's first major test of geothermal energy as a significant alternative to fossil fuels and the project was being financed with federal Department of Energy money at a site about 100 miles north of San Francisco called the Geysers.
 But on Friday, the Energy Department said that AltaRock had given notice this week that ''it will not be continuing work at the Geysers'' as part of the agency's geothermal development program. 
 The project's apparent collapse comes a day after Swiss government officials permanently shut down a similar project in Basel, because of the damaging earthquakes it produced in 2006 and 2007. Taken together, the two setbacks could change the direction of the Obama administration's geothermal program, which had raised hopes that the earth's bedrock could be quickly tapped as a clean and almost limitless energy source.
 The Energy Department referred other questions about the project's shutdown to AltaRock, a startup company based in Seattle. Reached by telephone, the company's chief operations officer, James T. Turner, confirmed that the rig had been removed but said he had not been informed of the notice that the company had given the government. Two other senior company officials did not respond to requests for comment, and it was unclear whether AltaRock might try to restart the project with private money.
 In addition to a $6 million grant from the Energy Department, AltaRock had attracted some $30 million in venture capital from high-profile investors like Google, Khosla Ventures and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.
 ''Some of these startup companies got out in front and convinced some venture capitalists that they were very close to commercial deployment,'' said Daniel P. Schrag, a professor of geology and director of the Center for the Environment at Harvard University.
 Geothermal enthusiasts asserted that drilling miles into hard rock, as required by the technique, could be done quickly and economically with small improvements in existing methods, Professor Schrag said. ''What we've discovered is that it's harder to make those improvements than some people believed,'' he added.
 In fact, AltaRock immediately ran into snags with its drilling, repeatedly snapping off bits in shallow formations called caprock. The project's safety was also under review at the Energy Department after federal officials said the company had not been entirely forthcoming about the earthquakes produced in Basel in making the case for the Geysers project.
 The results of that review have not yet been announced, but the type of geothermal energy explored in Basel and at the Geysers requires fracturing the bedrock then circulating water through the cracks to produce steam. By its nature, fracturing creates earthquakes, though most of them are small.
 On Friday, the Energy Department, which has put some $440 million into its geothermal program this year alone, said that despite the latest developments, it remained confident of the technology's long-term prospects. Many geothermal methods do not require drilling so deep or fracturing bedrock.
 ''The Department of Energy believes that geothermal energy holds enormous potential to heat our homes and power our economy while decreasing our carbon pollution,'' said Stephanie Mueller, a spokeswoman.
 AltaRock has also received some $25 million in federal money for a project in Oregon, and some scientists speculated on Friday that after the spate of problems at the Geysers, the company wanted to focus on a new site.
 But the company, whose project at the Geysers was located on land leased from the federal government by the Northern California Power Agency, has held information about its project tightly. Not even the power agency has been informed of AltaRock's ultimate intentions at the site, said Murray Grande, who is in charge of geothermal facilities for the agency.
 ''They just probably gave up, but we don't know,'' Mr. Grande said. ''We have nothing official from them at all.''
 But a resident of the nearby town of Anderson Springs, which is already shaken by quakes generated by less ambitious geothermal projects, reacted with jubilation when told it appeared the new project was ending.
 ''How I feel is beyond anything that words can express,'' said the resident, Jacque Felber, who added that an unnerving quake had rattled her property the night before. ''I'm just so relieved, because with this going on, I'm afraid one of these days it's going to knock my house off the hill.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A method of tapping energy from bedrock has been linked to increased earthquake activity.
 AltaRock Energy has told the Department of Energy it has removed its drill rig, shown above in May, from a Northern California site and abandoned the project. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (92%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (76%); CLOSINGS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (54%)

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (65%); GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (65%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



354 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Japan Reach Deal for More Open Air Traffic

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The United States and Japan reached a landmark agreement Friday to relax limits on flights between the two countries, opening up the possibility of broader cross-border airline alliances and more options for air travelers. 
 Under the agreement, which still must be finalized by both governments, airlines from both countries would be allowed to select routes and destinations based on consumer demand for both passenger and cargo services without limitations on the number of United States or Japanese carriers that can fly between the two countries or the number of flights they can operate.
 It would remove restrictions on capacity and pricing, and provide unlimited opportunities for cooperative marketing arrangements between American and Japanese carriers.
 The agreement is expected to prompt Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways to seek joint ventures with United States airlines.
 The agreement also would provide opportunities for growth of United States carrier operations at Narita Airport near Tokyo and ensure fair competition regarding the new opportunities at Haneda Airport, which is close to Tokyo's center, according to a statement from the Transportation Department.
 American Airlines has a code-sharing agreement with Japan Airlines, while United Airlines has a code-sharing agreement with All Nippon Airways. Delta Air Lines is seeking to lure Japan Airlines away from American and into Delta's SkyTeam alliance.
 A joint venture allows airlines to share costs and revenue on certain flights regardless of which airline owns or flies the aircraft. It differs from a simple code-sharing agreement in which one airline bears all the cost but another airline might get a share of the revenue for booking a customer on a flight.
 The Transportation Department said the text of the so-called open-skies agreement between the United States and Japan had been set, although there was no specific timetable on when the agreement would take effect.
 The United States has other open-skies agreements, including deals with the European Union and Australia.
 ''Achieving Open Skies with Japan, a major U.S. transportation and trade partner, has been a long-standing U.S. goal and is good news for air travelers and businesses on both sides of the Pacific,'' Ray LaHood, the secretary of transportation, said in a statement. 
 ''Once this agreement takes effect, American and Japanese consumers, airlines and economies will enjoy the benefits of competitive pricing and more convenient service,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (92%); AIRPORTS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (90%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (90%); ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO LTD (56%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); ANA (LSE) (56%); 9202 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%)

PERSON: RAY LAHOOD (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2009



355 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: The Do-It-Yourself Economy

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
In case you haven't noticed, the U.S. economy today is actually being hit by two tsunamis at once: The Great Recession and the Great Inflection. 
 The Great Inflection is the mass diffusion of low-cost, high-powered innovation technologies -- from hand-held computers to Web sites that offer any imaginable service -- plus cheap connectivity. They are transforming how business is done. The Great Recession you know. 
 The ''good news'' is that the Great Recession is forcing companies to take advantage of the Great Inflection faster than ever, making them more innovative. The bad news is that credit markets and bank lending are still constricted, so many companies can't fully exploit their productivity gains and spin off the new jobs we desperately need. 
 Two examples, one small, one large: The first is my childhood friend, Ken Greer, who owns a marketing agency in Minneapolis, Greer & Associates. The Great Recession has forced him to radically downsize, but the Great Inflection has made him radically more productive. He illustrated this by telling me about a film he recently made for a nonprofit. 
 ''The budget was about 20 percent of what we normally would charge,'' said Greer. ''After one meeting with the client, almost all our communication was by e-mail. The script was developed and approved using a collaborative tool provided by www.box.net. Internally, we all could look at the script no matter where we were, make suggestions and get to a final draft with complete transparency -- easy, convenient and free. We did not have a budget to shoot new footage, yet we had no budget either for stock photography the old way -- paying royalties of $100 to $2,000 per image. We found a source, istockphoto.com, which offered great photos for as little as a few dollars.
 ''We could easily preview all the images, place them in our program to make sure they worked, purchase them online and download the high-resolution versions -- all in seconds,'' Greer added. ''We had a script that called for 4 to 5 voices. Rather than hiring local voice talent -- for $250 to $500 per hour -- we searched the Internet for high-quality voices that we could afford. We found several sites offering various forms of narration or voice-overs. We selected www.voices.com. In less than one minute, we created an account, posted our requirements and solicited bids. Within five minutes, we had 10 to 15 'applicants' '' -- charging 10 percent of what Greer would have paid live talent.
 ''Best part,'' he said, ''within minutes we had sample reads, which could be placed into our film to see if the voices fit. We selected our finalists, wrote them with more specific instructions and within hours had the final read delivered to us via MP3 files over the Web. We could get any accent or ethnicity we wanted. For music, we used a site called www.audiojungle.net,'' where he could sample thousands of cuts of music and sound effects with the click of a mouse, and then buy them for pennies.
 By being able to access all these cheap tools, Greer got to focus on his value-add: imagination. The customer got a better product for less money. But he didn't create many new jobs. For that, he needs the economy to pick up. ''If we could only borrow a buck and invest,'' said Greer, ''we'd all be rolling again.''
 Farooq Kathwari, the longtime C.E.O. of Ethan Allen Interiors, had to accelerate reinvention of his company for the same reasons. In the last year, he reduced his work force by 25 percent, consolidated several U.S. manufacturing plants, including transferring all upholstery manufacturing into a large state-of-the-art facility in North Carolina, enabling Ethan Allen to substantially decrease its production time. The most labor-intensive upholstery work is done in the company's new plant in Mexico, and the components are shipped to the North Carolina facility for completion.
 ''Five years ago,'' said Kathwari, ''it would take about 20 hours of labor time to make a high-quality custom sofa. Now, due to our investments in technology and a smaller work force that is more highly skilled, the labor time to make this sofa is about three hours.'' 
 Everywhere he can, Kathwari says he is leveraging technology to cut costs and improve quality to retain his competitive position in world markets. This enabled Ethan Allen to maintain sufficient cash to survive. ''We now produce all our advertising programs in-house, including national television commercials, at a fraction of the cost we spent a few years back -- just as your friend is doing,'' said Kathwari. ''Our associates recognize that reinvention is vital to our survival.'' 
 Given its new state of hyperefficiency, any uptick in business would really help Ethan Allen's bottom line and stimulate hiring, but that requires credit markets to loosen for its customers and store owners. Said Kathwari, ''Credit is still a vital issue, and it is not happening at the grass-roots level -- or when it is, it is very expensive.''
 Strange times: The Great Recession and Great Inflection are making our companies ultralean, innovative and productive. But with credit still constricted, we're like a superfit track star with a weak heart. We've got to get credit pumping to our industrial muscles again. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (68%); ROYALTIES (66%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



356 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: An Age Ripe for Reform (Maybe)

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Even for New York, where more than a dozen state lawmakers have been forced to resign in recent years over ethical or criminal midconduct, the corruption trial of the former Senate Majority LeaderJoseph L. Bruno was eye opening.
 Mr. Bruno, according to prosecutors, brazenly turned his Senate office into a private business enterprise, pitching clients in his ornate conference rooms, using Senate lawyers to vet his business contracts, and assigning his taxpayer-provided secretary to handle the bills for his private consulting firm. Last week, after a monthlong trial, Mr. Bruno became the most senior New York official in a generation to be convicted on corruption charges. 
But at least he has plenty of company. From Illinois, where former Gov.Rod R. Blagojevich was impeached this year after being accused of trying to auction off a United States Senate seat, to Massachusetts, where Salvatore F. DiMasi, the former speaker of the House of Representatives, was indicted in June on charges that he conspired to rig state software contracts over rounds of golf, voters have been treated to a veritable buffet of highly colorful corruption cases involving highly senior state officials. Those spectacles have coincided with -- and sometimes have been responsible for -- intense levels of voter disgust and distrust, manifested in surveys, at town hall meetings, and in the defeat or near-defeat of incumbent officials this November in states like New Jersey and New York. According to a Gallup poll released in September, Americans' trust in their state officials has sunk to its lowest level in at least 40 years, with just half of respondents saying that they were confident that government officials could handle problems in their states.
 The question now is can a sullen and angry electorate prod state lawmakers into significant political reform, whether of the kind typically favored by liberals, like limits on campaign donations and better disclosure of lawmakers' side jobs, or by conservatives, like term limits. History teaches that significant political reform tends to occur at moments much like the present one: Shocking revelations of corruption or self-dealing paired with overwhelming voter anger, usually coupled with economic upheaval.
 ''The target becomes politicians,'' said John David Rausch Jr., a political science professor at West Texas A&M University. ''It can even be directed at a city councilman, someone who has no real effect on the economy. It is largely voter frustration: 'I'm angry, but I am not sure at whom.' You see it in the speeches: 'We need to take back our government.' ''
 In the 1970s, the Watergate scandal produced much of the current federal regime of campaign finance law and personal financial disclosure. During the Progressive Era early last century, popular revulsion against the political influence of Gilded Age robber barons and of large urban political machines spurred the direct election of United States senators, the emergence of civil services, and new tools like the initiative, recall and referendum.
 The crucial condition, experts said, is for public pressure to emerge across the political spectrum. During the Progressive Era -- the most sustained period of procedural reform in modern American history -- reform wings emerged contemporaneously in both of the major political parties.
 ''What broke the stalemate was a progressive strain in both parties,'' said Bruce N. Gyory, a political consultant in New York and an adjunct professor of political science at the University of Albany. ''Both parties were under assault from progressive reformers in their own ranks who disagreed on substantive economic ideas but agreed on procedural reforms.''
 In Washington, where politics has never been more fiercely partisan, such a development seems highly unlikely today. But there are some signs of a cross-partisan stirring at the state level.
 In New York, Gov.David A. Paterson, a Democrat, is backing a state spending cap, a top priority of Republicans in the Legislature. Former CongressmanRick Lazio, a Republican who hopes to unseat Mr. Paterson in next year's election, is campaigning on a platform of tighter lobbying laws -- a cause already embraced by progressive reformers -- and the creation of a unicameral legislature. Officials on both sides of the aisle have proposed a constitutional convention that would radically rewrite the state's political DNA, though they disagree on exactly what they want to change.
 Meanwhile, in heavily Democratic California, voters this year narrowly approved a ballot initiative that would put an independent commission in charge of drawing state legislative districts, a change that is likely to overwhelmingly benefit Republican candidates. In Illinois last week, on the one-year anniversary of Mr. Blagojevich's arrest, his successor, Gov.Patrick J. Quinn, signed into law the first significant limits on campaign contributions in state history.
 And in Louisiana, a state with a well-earned reputation for graft, Gov.Bobby Jindal, a Republican, won passage of a historic package of financial disclosure laws for state lawmakers. According to a ranking maintained by the Center for Public Integrity, a nonpartisan watchdog group in Washington, Louisiana went from being the 44th most transparent state in the country to the first.
 ''In recent years, ethics reform, especially at the state level, has become a priority,'' said Caitlin Ginley, a staff writer at the center who helped prepare the rankings. ''But it really needs to come from citizens calling for this. Legislators are not going to write a law to give themselves more work.''
 It remains unclear how significant such reforms are, or how much they can really change whatRonald Reagan once referred to as the world's second-oldest profession. (''I have come to realize that it bears a very close resemblance to the first,'' he famously added.)
 Ethics advocates acknowledge that the reforms they have won recently in statehouses are little more than baby steps -- small concessions from a political class that is worried, but perhaps not yet worried enough to inflict on itself the kind of wholesale changes produced in earlier eras of reform. Before citizens can get better leadership, some say, they may need to elect a whole new class of leaders.
 ''People are so mistrustful of politicians now,'' said Emily Rusch, the state director of the California Public Interest Research Group, which has pushed the Legislature there for tighter campaign finance limits and other measures, mostly without success. ''I think a successful reform effort is going to have to be seen as coming from outside Sacramento.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FOUND GUILTY: Joseph A. Bruno, center, faced corruption charges in New York State.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CORRUPTION (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); ETHICS (89%); SCANDALS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); CONTRACTS LAW (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); TERM LIMITS (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (73%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); GOLF (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); CONSERVATISM (68%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2010



357 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Judge Denies M.T.A. Bid to Set Aside Raises

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
A State Supreme Court judge in Manhattan has denied a petition by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to set aside substantial raises for transit workers that were awarded by an arbitration panel in August. 
 The decision by the judge, Justice O. Peter Sherwood, was released on Friday, and will put further financial pressure on the beleaguered authority, which on Monday is expected to recommend a series of measures, including service cuts, to make up a shortfall of about $340 million in its budget.
 ''We are extremely disappointed by this decision, which will force the M.T.A. to pay wage increases that are inconsistent with the economic crisis in New York,'' the agency said in a statement Saturday. ''The ruling will have severe financial impacts on the M.T.A. budget, coming on the heels of a state budget cut and reduction in payroll tax proceeds.'' The statement added that the decision would add $200 million to the agency's costs by 2011.
 John Samuelsen, the incoming president of Transport Workers Union Local 100, the transportation authority's largest union, called the ruling ''a big win for us.'' 
 The question of raises went to an arbitration panel in January after the authority and the union failed to reach agreement on a new contract.
 Long before the impasse, the Bloomberg administration granted 4 percent annual raises to many of the major unions representing city employees. The arbitration panel cited those agreements when it granted raises of 4 percent for both 2009 and 2010. But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who controls four votes on the authority's board, sharply criticized the raises, arguing that the agency should not be forced to pay higher labor costs during a fiscal crisis.
 The authority appealed, arguing that the panel had failed to firmly establish its findings and did not take into account the ''interest and welfare of the public'' and other criteria.
 ''In the current economic environment, the award of wage and benefit increases over three years of approximately 11.5 percent is a rich package but not unique,'' Justice Sherwood wrote in his decision. He also said that ''the court may not second-guess the decision of the arbitration panel.'' 
 ''The court has limited authority in this case,'' he added.
 Mr. Samuelsen said it was wrong for the city to oppose the wage increases after a pattern had been set in other negotiations. He added that he hoped the transportation authority would now release the money.
 Jeremy Soffin, a spokesman for the authority, said it was not immediately known if the decision would be appealed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); PETITIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



358 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1898 words

HEADLINE: Buying? You?

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
ARTHUR FREEDMAN has lived in a rent-stabilized studio in the East Village for 29 years. 
 But as he watched housing prices fall over the last year and as a leak in his bathroom went unrepaired month after month, he decided a few months ago that it was time to become a homeowner.
 ''Some people might think I'm the luckiest man in the world, paying $725 a month to live in this neighborhood,'' he said. ''But my friends say: 'You can live nicer than this.' And you know what? I should live nicer.''
 In a city where nearly 70 percent of the population rents -- about double the rate for the rest of the country -- the decision to buy an apartment in New York is not taken lightly. 
 But now that housing prices have dropped by as much as 30 percent since the height of the real estate boom, even people who, like Mr. Freedman, are paying well under market rates for their rentals, are venturing into the housing market. 
 A rent-stabilized apartment, of course, provides a certain sense of security, with affordable payments and fairly predictable increases. The people who decide to leave this all behind know that they will probably wind up paying more. But they have some very compelling reasons for flying from their protected nests.
 It could be a desire to upgrade to a nicer building or a larger space. Some trade down in size for the experience of owning. Others take the plunge because they recognize that their rents will soon head into market-rate territory anyway. Major incentives that unite them all, though, are sales prices that have been heftily discounted and mortgage rates that are hovering enticingly low at around 5 percent.
 Mr. Freedman, 61, lives in a no-frills walk-up in the East Village, and after a five-month search, is now in contract to buy a studio for $305,000. The place is about the same size as his rental, but it is in an elevator building with a doorman on the Upper West Side. Similar apartments in the building sold for as much as $360,000 at the height of the market. 
 Leaving the East Village will not be easy for Mr. Freedman, a retired teacher. ''I'm nostalgic. I have my bagel place and I'm there every morning, 365 days a year,'' he said. ''They were incredulous when I told them. But I'm sure I'll feel comfortable when I move, too.''
 Over the years, many of Mr. Freedman's rent-stabilized neighbors have left, and their apartments have been renovated from top to bottom and then deregulated. Market-rate studios in the building now rent for about $1,800, and he suspects that complaints emanating from those premises receive much quicker attention than his do. 
 ''I know I'm at fault, too, for not asking and pushing for more work to be done,'' he said, gesturing at yellowed walls that probably have not seen a paintbrush in two decades and a stove covered in a thick layer of dust. (He doesn't cook -- at all.) ''But I don't want the hassle to fix it.''
 His broker, Suzanne Zinsel, an agent at Halstead Property, said her colleagues warned her against taking on a rent-stabilized buyer, because these clients are notoriously indecisive and afraid of commitment. 
 Mr. Freedman, in fact, did put her through a few extra paces, backing away from two deals before settling on this last one.
 ''I think he just got scared, and he literally backed out the night before on those deals,'' Ms. Zinsel said. ''But he was very apologetic.'' 
 Mr. Freedman, who works as a substitute teacher when he can, said that throughout his apartment hunt, he relied on the advice of friends who already own homes, ''because I had no idea what I was doing.''
 Three decades of low rent, however, did enable him to save enough for a 30 percent down payment. 
 ''I'm not Alex Rodriguez here,'' said Mr. Freedman, a consummate Yankee fan. ''I'm not even C. C. Sabathia. It's just me, Artie Freedman.''
 By his calculations, after tax deductions, his monthly housing costs will be about $1,500, which is double what he pays now, but less than what he would pay for a market-rate rental. ''But it'll be better, because it'll be mine,'' he said.
 Celia Chen, a senior director of the research staff at Moody's Economy.com, and a specialist in housing economics, says that the housing cycle nationally is near its nadir, with prices very likely to fall a little more into the middle of next year. 
 ''But even if you're not getting a rock-bottom price,'' Ms. Chen said, ''prices have come down substantially since the peak of the market, and you will get a good, reasonable deal at very low mortgage rates. Now is probably as good a time as ever to buy.''
 Because prices will take awhile to start appreciating again, and because closing costs must be factored in, home buyers should plan on staying put for three to four years to at least break even, she said.
 Ms. Chen also said that while people in rent-stabilized apartments would be hard pressed to find a better bargain, there may also be ''a cost of renting, if you're not renting what you really want to rent.''
 The residents of rent-stabilized apartments often put up with lesser spaces and fewer services just to hang onto their coveted leases, said Steve Dobkin, a Manhattan lawyer who often represents tenants. ''Tenants in general are nervous to ask for even necessary repairs, because they don't want to be on the landlord's list of undesirable tenants,'' he said.
 But some renters ultimately decide that they are willing to pay more for a better quality of life.
 Thomas Coates, another agent with Halstead Property, said that people in rent-stabilized apartments naturally approach buying with great reluctance. ''It's a bit of a golden noose kind of thing,'' he said. ''They may be in a dump, and the landlord is trying to get them to move, but some just don't want to give up the security blanket.''
 Market-rate renters, on the other hand, have even more incentive, especially since the cost of owning in the current market is often on a par with the cost of renting, he said.
 Nick and Kevin Burkett-Caudell are clients of Mr. Coates who have lived in a rent-stabilized fifth-floor walk-up in Chelsea for 18 years. They decided to buy because they feel they have outgrown the neighborhood and because they want a proper bathroom. The couple legally combined their last names five years ago, when they were married in Quebec. 
 Their one-bedroom railroad apartment is in a 1900 tenement. Some apartments in the building have bathrooms out in the hall, but the Burkett-Caudells have a water closet in the apartment and a shower stall in the kitchen. ''When I first saw this apartment, I thought it would be great for a year or two, until we found something bigger,'' said Nick Burkett-Caudell, a communications manager at Ernst & Young. ''But then, once you're in, you never move because it's stabilized.''
 In their 20s, they were not bothered by the four flights of stairs and the awkward design of their apartment: You have to walk through the bedroom to get to the living room. But, he said, ''now we're in our 40s and we think we need rooms with doors on them, a proper bathroom, and a place that's more guest friendly.'' 
 They also feel that they have moved beyond the club and party scene in Chelsea, and are ready for what he called ''a more established'' neighborhood, which is why they are hoping to buy a one-bedroom in Park Slope. 
 Their rent started at about $800 and now is close to $1,400. The average rent for a one-bedroom in Chelsea is $2,916, according to Citi Habitats, but Mr. Burkett-Caudell said that he thought market-rate apartments in his building were now renting for about $1,600. ''We're just a few hundred dollars away from that,'' he said, ''and I don't want to be on the wrong side of that equation.'' 
 When they crunched some numbers, they determined that buying a one-bedroom in Park Slope for about $400,000 would give them monthly housing costs close to what they are paying now. 
 ''We wouldn't have been able to do this two years ago, because apartments were too expensive,'' he said. ''But now we're looking at proper one-bedrooms with 600 to 700 square feet in elevator buildings that seem like the Taj Mahal to us.'' 
 They made an offer on an apartment last month, but the deal fell through. They now hope to find something early next year. 
 Clearly, not all rent-regulated tenants can expect to trade up or even get something comparable to what they have now. (The city has some 1 million rent-stabilized units and another 350,000 apartments under other types of regulation.)
 Charlie C. Summers, a vice president of Bellmarc Realty, is working with a client who rents a one-bedroom walk-up in Chelsea for $1,300 and hopes to buy a two-bedroom in the neighborhood for $600,000 to $800,000 -- a tall order even in today's market. In that price range, he and his client have found mostly junior-fours, or one-bedrooms with an extra space that can be converted to a small second bedroom.
 The client hopes to move into a place where her 6-month-old baby can grow up. ''She wants more space, and she wants an apartment that can be a home and an investment,'' Mr. Summer said. But she ultimately may have to move beyond Chelsea to get the apartment she wants.
 Rochelle Meyer knows that she will not be able to replicate what she has now. She has lived at Waterside Plaza on the East River for more than 20 years, in a large one-bedroom that has what she describes as ''a million-dollar view.'' From her 24th-floor windows she can see as far south as the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and as far west as New Jersey, with the open sky expanding the apartment well beyond its walls. 
 Waterside Plaza was built as affordable housing under the Mitchell-Lama program, and when it left the program about 10 years ago, Ms. Meyer became a ''settlement tenant,'' which allows her to stay as long as she wants with 7.5 percent annual rent increases.
 That was fine at first, she said, but the increases have added up and ''now a year goes by very quickly for me. It seems like I just got used to one rent and then, oh, my God, it's time for another one.''
 Her rent started under $1,000 and is now $1,902, but utilities often push her costs well beyond $2,000 a month. It was her financial adviser who urged her to consider buying, and he suggested she look outside Manhattan for something under $400,000.
 ''But I can't do that,'' said Ms. Meyer, an executive at Citibank. ''I've lived and worked in Manhattan my entire adult life. I can't live anywhere else.''
 She started her search about two months ago with Carol Halt, a senior vice president of Barak Realty, and is trying to find a one-bedroom for under $500,000.
 ''She has an enormous apartment right now,'' Ms. Halt said, ''and when she looks, she thinks, 'How does this compare with my apartment?' But you can't compare, because the difference is she will be building equity in something she owns, instead of throwing her money out the window in rent.''
 Nothing Ms. Meyer has seen so far, with the possible exception of an apartment in Riverdale, measures up to her current home. ''I know it's going to be hard to duplicate what I have in my price range,'' she said. ''So I'm prepared to say that there is something I have to give up. But hopefully the balance sheet will have more positives than negatives.''
 And maybe, just maybe, she added, ''I could find a diamond in the rough.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HELL FREEZES: After 29 years in a rent-stabilized studio apartment in the East Village, Arthur Freedman has decided to take advantage of the market and buy a co-op. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE1)
BREAKING UP IS HARD TO DO: Rochelle Meyer will miss the view at Waterside Plaza, her home of 20 years, where as a ''settlement tenant'' she pays less than the market rate in rent. Nevertheless, she is apartment shopping. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 WHY THEY STAY: Thomas Coates, an agent with Halstead Property, says rentstabilized apartments can be ''a bit of a golden noose kind of thing.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



359 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
THE GLORY GAME: How the 1958 NFL Championship Changed Football Forever, by Frank Gifford with Peter Richmond (Harper, $14.99.) A Sports Illustrated headline labeled the 1958 championship game between the Baltimore Colts and the New York Giants ''The Best Football Game Ever Played'' because of its great action, its seesaw progress and the 17-17 tie at the end of the fourth quarter that led to the first sudden-death overtime in National Football League championship history. This lively account by Gifford, the Giants' Hall of Fame running back, leaves the reader ''almost wondering, 50 years later, how it will turn out,'' Christopher Lehmann-Haupt said in the Book Review. 
 HALLELUJAH JUNCTION: Composing an American Life, by John Adams (Picador, $16.) Mixing ruminations on the creative process, assessments of his and his peers' work, memories of his New England childhood and rants against pomposity, this ''wry, smart and forthright memoir,'' as our reviewer, David Hajdu, called it, is ''among the most readably incisive autobiographies of major musical figures.'' 
 SICILIAN TRAGEDEE, by Ottavio Cappellani. Translated by Frederika Randall (Picador, $15.) This funny novel both celebrates and satirizes 21st-century Sicily, where donkey carts share the street with sports cars and everyone has a cellphone. An avant-garde director decides to stage a production of ''Romeo and Juliet'' that returns the play to its origins in street theater; meanwhile, the children of rival Mafia families enact a real-life version. 
 BLOOD MATTERS: From Inherited Illness to Designer Babies, How the World and I Found Ourselves in the Future of the Gene, by Masha Gessen (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, $14.95.) When she tested positive for a genetic mutation that significantly increases the risk of dying of breast or ovarian cancer, Gessen, a Moscow-based journalist, became a medical sleuth. Her effort to determine the best treatment option is recounted ''elegantly and without self-pity,'' Jennifer Senior said in the Book Review. The book is also ''very lucid, even when the science gets complex.'' 
 PORTRAIT OF A PRIESTESS: Women and Ritual in Ancient Greece, by Joan Breton Connelly (Princeton University, $35.) Connelly's ''well-documented, meticulously assembled portrait'' of these formidable women, scattered over the Greek world and across a thousand years of history, contradicts the conventional vision, our reviewer, Steve Coates, said. Far from being confined to housekeeping and child rearing, priestesses won influence and respect. Connelly draws on literary references and representations in sculpture and vase painting. 
 GIANTS: The Parallel Lives of Frederick Douglass and Abraham Lincoln, by John Stauffer. (Twelve, $14.99.) This original joint biography finds similarities in the lives of the former slave turned abolitionist and the frontier orator who became president. Both were pragmatic self-made men. They began as enemies, but Stauffer shows how they became friends despite their social and political differences. THIS MIGHTY SCOURGE:Perspectives on the Civil War, by James M. McPherson. (Oxford University, $17.95.) These 16 essays -- many previously published in The New York Review of Books, all revised so that they form a coherent whole -- ask the big questions of the Civil War: Why was it fought? Why did the South lose? What was the war's effect on those who lived through it? Addressing recent historiography, McPherson, a Pulitzer Prize winner, is both masterly and graceful. THE COLFAX MASSACRE: The Untold Story of Black Power, White Terror, and the Death of Reconstruction, by LeeAnna Keith. (Oxford University, $15.95.) Keith tells the story of the murder of 81 black people in Colfax, La., on April 13, 1873, by white supremacists, recreating the town's complicated dynamics. 
 DELTA BLUES: The Life and Times of the Mississippi Masters Who Revolutionized American Music, by Ted Gioia (Norton, $16.95.) Drawing on interviews with artists and their associates as well as his own careful listening, Gioia writes noncontentiously about the music and its reception. He sees the genre's origin in black antebellum work songs, and work drives the narrative: how economic opportunities affected musicians; what the blues might have offered them. 
 AMONG THE MAD, by Jacqueline Winspear (Picador, $14.) This is the sixth novel in the historical series featuring Maisie Dobbs, a World War I battlefield nurse who becomes an investigative psychologist in postwar London. When a shell-shocked veteran detonates a grenade on Christmas Eve, Maisie joins a government investigation into terrorist groups that recruit unstable veterans to carry out their anarchist agendas. 
 AMERICAN THERAPY: The Rise of Psychotherapy in the United States, by Jonathan Engel (Gotham, $16.) Engel describes how, in less than 100 years, psychotherapy went from being an obscure treatment for upper-middle-class Jews in fin-de-siecle Vienna to being a staple of mainstream American medical practice and popular culture. He shows how drug and cognitive therapies, as well as changes in the structure of health insurance, have influenced psychiatric care. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); ATHLETES (78%); LITERATURE (75%); CLASSICS (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); WRITERS (74%); FAMILY (74%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); THEATER (71%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (71%); STREET ART (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (69%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (68%); GENETIC DISEASES (63%); CANCER (63%); OVARIAN CANCER (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); BREAST CANCER (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NEW YORK GIANTS (84%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); FREDERICK, MD, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); MARYLAND, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



360 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: When 'the Dress' Turns Into 5 or 6

BYLINE: By JANE GORDON

 BODY:
SARAH NIANOURIS found the perfect wedding dress. Then she continued shopping. 
 Why, she can't say. But she fell in love with another, then another, then another. She now had four sashaying, cascading, lace-adorned, bead-bedecked and -- not to be ignored in an economic downturn -- way-over-her-budget gowns. She wasn't marrying enough times to wear them all.
 ''I know: psycho,'' she said. But she has plenty of company. Multiple wedding-dress purchases, are a trend in the wedding industry, if the anecdotes mean anything. 
 Ms. Nianouris (now Mrs. Sollar), a real estate broker in Dayton, Ohio, considers herself ''very frugal.'' She had budgeted $1,000 for her dress. She spent $800 on her first pick, a Sarah Danielle, then bought an elaborate, tiered tulle-and-lace Mia Solano for $1,000. Then she opted for handmade, setting her back $550 on the deposit. ''When I put it on, I wanted to throw up,'' she said. 
 Then she bought the winner, an Amsale sample gown, for $699, with $300 in alterations. She sold the first two on PreOwnedWeddingDresses.com for a loss of $650. It was a long journey to the right dress, but ''I couldn't have been happier,'' she said.
 Not that Mrs. Sollar spent much by today's wildly priced wedding-dress standards, where something from the couturier Monique Lhuillier's Platinum Collection can sell for upward of $20,000. 
 Annie Hunter of Seattle, who works in marketing for a nonprofit organization, reached more than half that total when she bought four dresses for her August wedding. She bought two at a sample sale in Seattle for $3,800 combined. She bought a third dress, an Amsale, online for $3,000. ''It had pockets,'' she said. ''I wanted pockets.'' She wore it to a small wedding ceremony she and her bridegroom held in Mexico, but felt it was a bit too revealing for her formal wedding. The fourth, and final, dress she bought at a shop in Seattle, a Monique Lhuillier for $3,400. 
 ''My husband paid for the first two, I paid for the third, and my mother paid for the fourth,'' she said. ''Everyone contributed to the madness.'' 
 But Mrs. Hunter's mother was her cautionary tale. ''She thought I was nuts,'' Mrs. Hunter said. ''But she hated the way she had looked on her wedding day, and she wanted me to have a more positive experience, which I did.''
 Josie Daga, the owner of PreOwnedWeddingDresses.com, has labeled the phenomenon multiple-dress syndrome. ''A two-dress wedding is old hat,'' she said. ''Easily 15 to 20 percent of our sellers are two-dress brides. But buying several dresses? This is new.'' 
 Mrs. Daga points to dozens of brides who have shared their multiple-dress stories on her site, including a woman who bought seven dresses, and another who bought six. 
 ''They are a little bit ashamed of it,'' she said. ''But with longer engagements and the excitement around the wedding industry, the dress is often the first thing they buy.'' 
 And buy, and buy. 
 The phenomenon has not registered on the radar of the Wedding Report (theweddingreport.com), an online market research firm tracking all things wedding-related. ''I'll add it to our next survey,'' said Shane McMurray, the firm's chief executive. 
 Multiple wedding-dress purchases are part of what continues to be a high level of spending on weddings, a $40-billion-plus industry according to information from the Association of Certified Professional Wedding Consultants and a number of other industry groups. 
 Amber Schneider of Boston, who bought a mere two gowns, saw her wedding as a once-in-a-lifetime event.
 ''My husband and I will be paying this wedding off for years and years to come,'' said Mrs. Schneider, a hospital social worker. ''I felt guilty about it, but at the same time, I wanted to feel beautiful on my wedding day.'' 
 It is a sentiment that has certainly helped the resale industry. Sales at the pre-owned dress site are ''fabulous,'' Mrs. Daga said. 
 ''The recession has helped the business, because it's crazy what a wedding dress costs,'' she said. ''If you can get a dress that looks essentially new, or sell your dress and get some money back, why wouldn't you?'' 
 The buyers put their money in a holding account provided by the Web site, so the sellers do not receive the money until the buying brides sign off on the dresses. 
 Whatever their reasons for buying in bulk, brides said love of a wedding dress, then ultimate rejection of it, did not reflect on their decision-making capabilities regarding a husband.
 ''Oh, no,'' Mrs. Sollar said, laughing. ''He's different. I love him to death.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM BLOOM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); WEDDING & NEWLYWEDS MARKET (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); NONPROFIT MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%); DAYTON, OH, USA (56%) WASHINGTON, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



361 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER SKI GUIDE 2010; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Getting Back to Family Values

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
HOPING that this ski season will be better than last year's, resorts around the country are banking on families to help them bounce back, with many offering new programs and apres-ski activities designed specifically with children in mind. 
 Keystone Resort in Colorado is hosting Kidtopia events over Christmas, Presidents' Day weekend and spring break, programs that include glow-stick ski parades, movie nights on top of the mountain and disco tubing. Crested Butte Mountain Resort in Colorado has a new adventure park at its base with year-round ice-skating, bungee trampolines and a climbing wall.
 There is a new four-lane tubing hill with a magic-carpet lift (an extra-long moving walkway that goes uphill) for easy on and off access at Heavenly Mountain Resort at Lake Tahoe on the California and Nevada border. And Park City Mountain Resort in Utah has two new adventure trails designed for children 6 to 14 that offer skiing on groomed forest trails that have been thinned out, all the better for mini-schussers to navigate. 
 Resorts have learned that families are a critical segment, especially in the down economy. ''Unlike a couple, a family's itinerary generally includes at least four people staying for longer periods of time and additional elements such as lessons, equipment rental and day care,'' said Dan Sherman, director of marketing communications at Ski.com. 
 A new tubing hill or kid-oriented trails could be just enough to lure a family from one resort to another. And the added revenue from activities like snow tubing, ice-skating or children's lessons can help make up for sagging lift ticket sales. On a national basis last season, paid tickets dropped to 56.1 percent of visits from 59.8 percent the season earlier, according to a survey by the National Ski Areas Association. Snow tubing visits, while a relatively small portion of ancillary revenue for ski resorts, were up slightly last season from the year before. 
 The industry also realizes that children may well be the future of skiing and snowboarding, and resorts are trying to attract and convert first-timers into committed, long-term visitors. ''That whole segment is critical for the industry right now,'' said Rob Katz, chief executive of Vail Resorts, which owns and operates four large ski areas in Colorado as well as Heavenly on the California and Nevada border. And a child's influence on the family vacation is not to be taken lightly. ''If our kids are having a good time, everyone's having a good time,'' added Mr. Katz, who has two children. ''If they're not, nobody is.'' 
 With that in mind, Beaver Creek, a Vail Resort in Colorado, has been upgrading its children's experience the last two years, first with a new gondola for its bunny hill, the Buckaroo Express, which removes some of the anxiety of getting on and off a lift for beginners. Last season, it opened the Ranch, a new ski and snowboard school on the mountain, with picture windows to allow parents to watch their children learn and wireless touch screens at each lunch table so the instructor doesn't have to leave the children to place orders. This year, it added a three-lane tubing hill for children.
 To keep its littlest guests happy, Aspen-Snowmass opened the $17 million Treehouse Kids' Adventure Center at the Snowmass base village with 25,000-square-feet of mini climbing walls and nature-themed rooms in the 2007-08 season. Winter Park Resort in Colorado, which added a Just Because I'm Three ski school program a few years ago, has created a separate meeting place for children to make sure they feel comfortable. Lessons now begin inside on an indoor mini-slope to put children at ease on skis and minimize distractions before they ever set foot on the snow. This season, Steamboat in Colorado expanded its Kids' Vacation Center to expedite check-in and drop-off with eight new registration kiosks and vehicle drop-off spaces.
 Safety improvements are also part of the ski experience this year. All five Vail ski resorts are requiring every employee and every child enrolled in lessons to wear a helmet. Alpine Meadows in Tahoe City, Calif., and Copper Mountain in Colorado, are strapping GPS trackers to the legs and arms of children enrolled in ski and snowboard day camps this winter so they can easily be tracked down if they stray from the group. And Stratton Mountain Resort in Vermont has posted signs on safety and etiquette throughout its child-friendly terrain park, Burton Kids Parkway. Interactive stop signs at the top of each feature require children to read about the upcoming obstacle line before pushing a button to receive a green light.
 As parents continue to seek lessons for their children as soon as they can walk, some ski and ride schools are lowering the age of entry. Crested Butte Mountain Resort is now accepting 3-year-olds, down from age 4, with new hourlong Cubs ($140) and Snowy Bears lessons ($145). It also has dropped the minimum age for its snowboarding lessons to 5 from 7 because of demand. The parents of Mini Riders, ages 5 and 6, pay $225 for group lessons with an instructor-to-student ratio of 1 to 2. Northstar-at-Tahoe at Lake Tahoe in California has expanded and redesigned its beginner area and is offering snowboard lessons to children under 13. 
 And with the economy in mind, nearly every resort has introduced lesson options to better serve families on a budget. Sierra-at-Tahoe, also in California, has lowered the price of its beginner package to just $35 on Sundays through Fridays -- including rentals -- from about $89 last season. It also has a Parent Predicament ticket, for $69 or $72 on peak days, which allows parents to swap out the use of the same lift ticket so one can take a turn on the slopes while the other watches the baby.
 On the other side of Lake Tahoe, children's single-day lift tickets are valid for two days when used consecutively over a three-day period at Northstar-at-Tahoe. And the second day of two-day ski and snowboard lessons is half off. 
 For families that don't want to spend extra for a private lesson but would still like the children to receive some one-on-one instruction, Vail Resorts is offering Ultimate 4. No more than four children, ages 3 to 12, are in a class, enabling instructors to offer individual feedback in a semiprivate lesson. Rates start at $255 a child for a lift ticket and the class, compared with $675 for a private lesson. 
 And nearly every resort is offering some variation of a children-ski-free deal during off-peak times. At Aspen-Snowmass, for example, kids ski and stay free in March with the purchase of a four-day adult lift ticket and lodge package by Jan. 15. Visitors to Sunlight Mountain Resort near Glenwood Springs, Colo., who buy two adult lift tickets can print a free coupon online at www.sunlightmtn.com for a free child's lift ticket. And fourth graders can ski or ride free at more than 25 New York State ski areas this winter when accompanied by a paying adult. To apply, go to www.44free.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The gondolas for the beginner run at Beaver Creek in Colorado are just one of the amenities that ski resorts nationwide have added to attract families. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK AFFLECK/BEAVER CREEK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (92%); SKIING (92%); FAMILY (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); CHRISTMAS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CLIMBING (71%); ICE SKATING (70%); TICKET SALES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%)

COMPANY: KEYSTONE RESORT (58%); VAIL RESORTS INC (58%); CRESTED BUTTE MOUNTAIN RESORT INC (57%); PARK CITY MOUNTAIN RESORT (56%); HEAVENLY VALLEY LP (56%)

TICKER: MTN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); NAICS713920 SKIING FACILITIES (58%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC3544 SPECIAL DIES & TOOLS, DIE SETS, JIGS & FIXTURES & INDUSTRIAL MOLDS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



362 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING ALONG GRAND CONCOURSE, THE BRONX; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Deco at a Discount

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
IN the early 20th century, the Grand Concourse was a stylish address for successful immigrants and first-generation Americans who could afford to move up from areas like the Lower East Side. 
 ''My grandparents always wanted to live on the Grand Concourse,'' said Andrew S. Dolkart, the director of Columbia University's Historic Preservation Program. ''They did eventually. Their apartment on the Grand Concourse was smaller than their other apartment, but it had the prestige of the address.''
 Over the course of the century, the glamour dissipated. The Bronx was burning, and while the Concourse itself was spared much of the destruction and abandonment seen throughout the borough, its sparkle was lost. 
 In the last 10 or 20 years, however, things have started to turn around. ''Just as the city of New York has rebounded,'' said Sam Goodman, an urban planner at the Bronx borough president's office and a resident of the Grand Concourse, ''the Bronx has improved as well.'' 
 The Grand Concourse is celebrating its 100th anniversary, and its lovely stockpile of prewar housing is being rediscovered. Their survival is a happy accident, said Robert B. Tierney, the chairman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission. ''When neighborhoods go through hard times,'' he said, ''sometimes it results in the historic fabric not being torn down for high rises.'' The ''Art Deco, Art Moderne style apartment houses are so amazing up there,'' he said, and many of the interiors have sunken living rooms and prewar details. 
 The neighborhood is an easy commute to Manhattan, and apartments tend to sell for much less than comparable spaces in other parts of the city. And in recent years, people have started to notice. 
 ''They're looking for value,'' Ariela Heilman, the president of Ariela Heilman Real Estate and an apartment owner in the South Bronx, said of her new neighbors. ''They're not looking for the name of the street.'' 
 When Katja Shamburger decided it was time to buy an apartment five years ago, she moved to the South Bronx to take advantage of the low prices. When she wanted to upgrade, she chose to stay in the area -- and ended up on the Grand Concourse.
 This summer, she paid $280,000 for a three-bedroom apartment with a balcony at 1020 Grand Concourse, a doorman building called Executive Towers. From her apartment, she has views of Manhattan, Yankee Stadium, and beautiful sunsets. She also has the privacy of her own bathroom. 
 ''I have two children and everybody has their space,'' she said. ''I'm not going anywhere anytime soon.''
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 The Grand Concourse begins at 138th Street and stretches four and a half miles up to Mosholu Parkway, through four of the Bronx's 12 community districts, and through parts of High Bridge and other neighborhoods. A bus ride reveals four fairly distinct portions. 
 The southernmost end was historically an industrial area. Rezoning to make way for residential development occurred only this past summer. 
 The second phase begins around 153rd Street, where apartment buildings start appearing. From that point, the road remains residential through its northern tip, aside from commercial space around Fordham Road and some storefronts here and there. 
 Within that zone, around Yankee Stadium at 161st Street, are some of the Concourse's most glamorous ghosts and contemporary attractions. The Bronx County Courthouse, an imposing white building with gold flourishes, sits across the street from Joyce Kilmer Park. Catercorner from the courthouse is the old Concourse Plaza Hotel, where the Yankees were said to spend game nights. It is now a home for the elderly. 
 The patch around the stadium, from about 153rd to 167th, has a number of the boulevard's trademark Deco buildings: the western Bronx has one of the largest collections of such buildings in the country. The Preservation Commission is considering this strip as a possible historic district, Mr. Tierney said. 
 Although many people associate living on the Grand Concourse with living in an Art Deco building, simple five- and six-story brick structures actually make up the bulk of the housing stock. According to Mr. Tierney, north of 167th Street the concentration of simple walk-up buildings becomes stronger. 
 It is around 167th that the third zone starts and the feeling shifts again. 
 ''There's no sense in trying to camouflage it,'' said Mr. Goodman at the borough president's office. ''Between 167th Street and Fordham Road are places that could use a lot of love.'' 
 This section was hit the hardest by the blight suffered generally in the Bronx. Today, it has the fewest owner-occupied buildings and faces the longest journey back to economic stability.
 ''The South Bronx in the second half of the 20th century was a rough place to live,'' Mr. Goodman said.
 About two miles north of 167th, around the Kingsbridge subway stop, the Concourse mellows out. While other stretches saw trouble over the last 50 years, stability prevailed in this fourth portion, near the Montefiore Medical Center and Poe Park, a patch of grass and a little white cottage that was once home to Edgar Allan Poe. 
 But even in areas that never drastically declined, the image that infected the Bronx in the '80s has held on. 
 The 44th Police Precinct, which includes Yankee Stadium, reported 89 murders in 1990. Last year, there were 20. In the 46th Precinct, which encompasses a more northerly portion of the Concourse, there were 15 murders last year, down from 82 in 1990. 
 ''It would be wrong to say that it's the safest area in New York City,'' Mr. Goodman said, ''but clearly what has happened here has been a dramatic improvement in crime reduction.'' 
 WHAT TO DO
 The most famous attraction near the Grand Concourse today is Yankee Stadium. But the Bronx Museum of the Arts is just a few blocks away on 165th Street. From the northern end of the Concourse, the Bronx Zoo and the New York Botanical Garden are easily accessible. 
 This spring near the ballpark, a mall called the Gateway Center opened, bringing stores like Target to the area. But beyond fast-food chains, the choice of restaurants and bars is slim.
 THE COMMUTE
 The B, D and the 4 trains stop in front of Yankee Stadium at 161st Street and River Avenue; the D and 4 express trains can take you to Midtown Manhattan in 20 minutes. After 161st, the B and D run straight up the Grand Concourse. 
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Most of the housing along the Grand Concourse is made up of rental apartments, but there are two pockets of co-ops, one around Yankee Stadium and the other on the Northern Concourse. 
 Especially around the stadium -- between 153rd and 167th -- units are spacious, prices are low, and the commute to Manhattan is quick. But the area still varies a great deal block by block, and even building by building.
 ''This is such a baby-fresh neighborhood,'' said Marjo Benavides, a sales associate at Ariela Heilman Real Estate. ''There is a whole world in between two subway stops, but there is also a world between different buildings.'' 
 A one-bedroom in the area can run $115,000 to $225,000, a two-bedroom $160,000 to $255,000, a three-bedroom $280,000 to $350,000. Ms. Benavides estimates that these prices have probably come down about 20 percent from last year. Over the previous three years, however, the cost of one-bedrooms in the area had nearly doubled, she says.
 THE SCHOOLS
 Public schools in the area leave a lot to be desired. SAT averages last year at the Bronx School for Law, Government and Justice on 163rd Street were 405 in reading, 397 in math and 405 in writing, versus 435, 459, 432 citywide. 
 There are some parochial schools, but many parents who have the choice send their children to schools in other neighborhoods. 
 THE HISTORY
 The Concourse's heyday lasted roughly from the 1920s through the late 1950s, and subsequent generations of New Yorkers grew up on stories of those glory days. 
 One fact that often gets lost in the retelling is the boulevard's diversity. 
 ''There were certainly a lot of Jewish families,'' Mr. Dolkart said, ''but there were also lots of Irish families and Italian families. It was really a very diverse street, even from the beginning.'' 
 There was, however, some clustering by religious and ethnic group, still evident today in the old synagogues on the southern Concourse, and those churches farther north that are still in use. 
 ''If your grandparents were Jewish, you were hearing about the southern part of the Grand Concourse,'' he said. ''If you were Irish, you'd be hearing about the northern part. That's an exaggeration, but there's truth to it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LOCAL ART: This oftenadmired mosaic entryway at No. 1150 imparts the flavor that the Grand Concourse is known for -- though over its four-and-a-half-mile stretch, architecture styles do vary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY G. PAUL BURNETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



363 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PREOCCUPATIONS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Making Flex Time A Win-Win

BYLINE: By SYLVIA ANN HEWLETT. 
Sylvia Ann Hewlett is an economist and the author of ''Top Talent: Keeping Performance Up When Business Is Down.''

 BODY:
THIS fall, I spoke at Women on Wall Street, an annual event in New York that attracts some 2,000 women, most of them executives in the financial sector. As a wrap-up to the program, the moderator threw me a softball question: What do women like me do to unwind? 
 Rather than talking gamely about golf, yoga or half-marathons, I blurted out: ''Nothing. Nothing at all. What I crave more than anything are chunks of empty space -- no expectations, no agendas.'' 
 There was a collective gasp, then the audience went wild. ''You go, girl!'' yelled a woman in the front row.
 My raw words had hit a nerve. For overscheduled, multitasking high achievers -- men as well as women -- nothing is more alluring than a chunk of empty time. Three years ago I examined what I called ''extreme'' jobs, professional positions that require a person to put in 60-plus hours a week and tangle with a slew of other performance pressures. The results were eye-catching. These jobs had become surprisingly widespread. In large corporations, for example, almost half of high-echelon workers had extreme jobs. 
 It's important to stress that back then -- in the ebullient, expansive climate of 2006 -- extreme jobs had an upside: superhuman efforts were routinely rewarded with supersize bonuses. This upside has diminished -- but not the downside. While lush paychecks have withered in the Great Recession, the time squeeze has tightened even more. Many workers feel they can no longer flex their schedules. In a climate of downsizing and layoffs, few people dare to ask if they can stagger their hours or work from home. 
 Longer workweeks and the disappearance of flex time have been particularly tough on women. Men have been disproportionately clobbered by layoffs in the current crisis, and women have had no choice but to pick up the slack.
 From 2004 to 2009 there was a 28 percent increase in the number of professional women with nonworking husbands (unemployed or retired), according to a new survey done by the Center for Work-Life Policy, an organization I founded and where I lead a private-sector task force called Hidden Brain Drain. 
 What is more, the percentage of full-time working women who out-earn their husbands has reached 39 percent. A central problem, of course, is that as more wives and mothers step into the prime breadwinning role, they continue to shoulder a disproportionate load of domestic responsibility.
 Some relief is on the way --for women and for men. If there's a silver lining to the recession, it's that smart companies are beginning to turn time into a tool to attract, retain and engage high-performing talent of both sexes.
 In January, the accounting giant KPMG, looking for a way to save payroll costs without losing valued employees, introduced an initiative called Flexible Futures. This new program offered the 11,000 professionals in KPMG's British operations the following options: They could go to a four-day workweek and take a 20 percent pay cut; they could opt for a mini-sabbatical at 30 percent base pay; they could opt for both of the above; or they could stick with their current arrangement.
 The program was hugely successful. Over 80 percent of KPMG's professional employees (men and women) volunteered to take one of the flexible options. This allowed KPMG to achieve its goal of retaining jobs while cutting costs. 
 Because Flexible Futures positioned shorter workweeks and mini-sabbaticals as a strategic response to the downturn rather than a ''benefit'' for working mothers, it has gone some distance to legitimizing flex time. Taking this option has become an honored choice -- a way to save jobs. As a result, overloaded men as well as overloaded women have felt free to vary their schedules. 
 KPMG is not alone in using time as currency. The global consulting firm Booz & Company recently started a ''partial pay'' sabbatical. As of April, Booz employees can take a one-month to a yearlong sabbatical at 20 percent of base pay plus medical benefits and return to a guaranteed job. The program is positioned as a way to cut costs in this downturn while holding on to crucial talent.
 IF programs like these reduce the stigma of flex time, it's a big deal for women. The fact is that mothers and daughters have often paid a steep price for ''time out.'' A career woman who voluntarily quits her job for two to three years in order to take care of a child or an elderly parent stands to lose 18 percent of her lifetime earning power, according to my research. Her unencumbered male peers, on the other hand, surge ahead in pay. 
 The gender gap these days is about equal opportunity to stick with one's career and not be forced into a dreaded choice between work and family. A rich menu of flexible work arrangements is central to women's progress.
 When a 35-year-old high-performing woman who happens to be a new mother can scale back to a four-day week and be honored for that choice rather than being written off, we're on our way to a different future. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sylvia Ann Hewlett encourages companies to think of flexible work schedules as a currency for recruiting and retaining talented women and men. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); FLEXTIME (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (88%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); SOFTBALL (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); WORK WEEK (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (72%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (72%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (72%); MARATHONS (71%); YOGA (71%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



364 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: He Was No Wilsonian

BYLINE: By BEVERLY GAGE. 
Beverly Gage, the author of ''The Day Wall Street Exploded: A Story of America in Its First Age of Terror,'' teaches American history at Yale.

 BODY:
WOODROW WILSON
 A Biography
 By John Milton Cooper Jr.
 Illustrated. 702 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $35
 When historians rank the American presidents, Woodrow Wilson almost always secures a place in the top 10. This seems to be an honor accorded successful wartime leaders; in the last C-Span Presidents Day poll, the highest three spots belonged to Lincoln, Washington and Franklin Roosevelt, two war presidents and a general. Yet compared with the reputations of other members of that august pantheon, Wilson's lags far behind. George W. Bush was described as ''Wilsonian'' after 9/11, but that was hardly meant as a compliment. Barack Obama, like Wilson a scholar, political neophyte and Nobel Peace Prize winner, prefers to be compared to Lincoln and the second Roosevelt, or even to Truman and Reagan -- practically any other member of the top ranks. Today, the only major public figure who seems to be interested in Wilson is the Fox News host Glenn Beck, who traces the roots of our current ''socialist'' predicament back to the dark era of Wilsonian income taxes, war propaganda and obscure monetary symbols. 
 ''Woodrow Wilson,'' John Milton Cooper Jr.'s monumental new biography, seeks to revive Wilson for the 21st century -- not simply to narrate a presidential life, but to explain why he deserves our national esteem. A professor of history at the University of Wisconsin, Cooper has dedicated a lifetime to studying the Wilson era in its varied dimensions. His first book, ''The Vanity of Power,'' published in 1969, examined American isolationism during World War I. In the decades since, he has written about the League of Nations, Wilson's rivalry with Teddy Roosevelt and nearly every other milestone of Wilson's career. ''Woodrow Wilson'' belongs securely to that imposing genre known as the definitive biography, the sort of work that it takes a lifetime to achieve and, the biographer hopes, a generation to surpass. 
 So what does Wilson look like from the vantage point of 2009? Not, Cooper writes, like what you might think. He was not a cold intellectual or distant messiah, two stereotypes born in Wilson's failed struggle over the League of Nations. Nor was he even a ''Wilsonian'' -- Cooper argues that like Karl Marx, he would hardly recognize the self-aggrandizing ideals that now bear his name. As Cooper describes him, Wilson was a warm, witty family man with a talent for political hardball and a scholar's love of big ideas: ''Behind Woodrow Wilson's distinctive and often caricatured features -- his long nose, big jaw and pince-nez eyeglasses -- lay one of the deepest and most daring souls ever to inhabit the White House.'' 
 Such statements set the tone for Cooper's book, an admiring and engaging work of presidential revisionism. According to Cooper, Wilson was a savvy executive whose farsighted decision-making shaped ''much of what has happened in the world since.'' Wilson first showed his political talents as the president of Princeton, where he introduced new intellectual rigor to an ossified, dilettantish curriculum. Next came his two years as New Jersey governor, where his firm progressive stand against the Democratic machine set him on course for the White House. As president, Cooper writes, Wilson assembled a record of legislative efficiency rivaled only by Franklin Roosevelt and Lyndon Johnson. In less than two years, he established the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Reserve while reforming trust, tariff and tax law -- all stalwart progressive issues. What's more, he made Congress stay for 18 months to do it, the longest working session in Congressional history.
 Cooper narrates Wilson's rise to power as traditional political history; cabinet appointments and nominating conventions receive far more attention than social movements or grassroots trends. We also learn a great deal about Wilson's astoundingly pleasant daily schedule: he usually arrived at work around 9 a.m., took an hourlong lunch and knocked off by late afternoon for an automobile drive or a game of golf. This schedule changed surprisingly little after 1914, when the outbreak of the Great War in Europe began to subsume all other concerns. The following year, Wilson found time to fall in love, remarry and depart on a three-week honeymoon before returning to address the exigencies of unrestricted submarine warfare. 
 Cooper portrays Wilson as a venerable wartime leader: thoughtful, circumspect, deeply concerned with the war's moral implications. Only after a major stroke in late 1919 did he begin to acquire the characteristics of intransigence, rigidity and self-deception that ultimately shaped his political legacy. Cooper views the stroke, rightly, as the great tragedy of Wilson's life. ''Out of a dynamic, resourceful leader emerged an emotionally unstable, delusional creature.'' The stroke also set off a major crisis of presidential succession, as the debilitated and not entirely lucid president continued to cling to office and plan feebly for re-election.
 This is an affecting portrait. We can only mourn for Wilson's lost vitality as he lies slack-jawed in bed, wondering if the world has forsaken him. On occasion, though, Cooper's sympathy for Wilson threatens to veer into hagiography. He acknowledges that Wilson was not a perfect president, especially on issues of race and civil liberties. Here, however, he gives Wilson more credit than may be due. Cooper attributes both the viciously racist policies of the Wilson era and the administration's crackdown on political dissidents to the actions of cabinet officials, not to Wilson himself. Nonetheless, the record that Wilson established marks him as the most reactionary president on these issues in the 20th century. At a certain point, one has to wonder if these are exceptions to an otherwise stellar Wilsonian performance, or if they might in fact be the rule. 
 It makes sense that Cooper wants to see the best of Wilson; few historians dedicate a life's work to figures they roundly despise. And yet the attempt to redeem Wilson ultimately makes him a less interesting figure. By beginning with the premise that Wilson was a great man, worthy of 21st-century admiration, Cooper flounders in attempting to explain his subject's less palatable attributes. ''It remains a mystery,'' Cooper concludes of the postwar Red Scare, ''why such a farseeing, thoughtful person as Wilson would let any of that occur.'' He finds Wilson's racial attitudes similarly ''puzzling,'' given the president's alleged sensitivity ''to economic, religious and ethnic injustices.'' 
 A more nuanced approach might have let Wilson stand on his own contradictory terms. Yet this is a luxury not always afforded presidential historians, who must inevitably address how their subjects stack up against the competition. Cooper presents a powerful, deeply researched and highly readable case for keeping Wilson in the top ranks of American presidents, even if history might be better served by doing away with the contest altogether.h

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wilson at a baseball game, autumn 1915. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM NEW YORK TIMES PHOTO ARCHIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); WORLD WAR I (79%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); RANKINGS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); BASEBALL (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GLENN BECK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Woodrow Wilson: A Biography (Book)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



365 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: How Green Is That Big Company?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Will Big Business Save the Earth?'' (Op-Ed, Dec. 6):
 Jared Diamond highlights three of this country's largest polluters as green advocates. In each example -- Wal-Mart, Coca-Cola and Chevron -- he acknowledges the enormous footprint that each company has. After each example, we hear the concessions that these companies are prepared to make toward resource conservation.
 Unfortunately, no concession that these companies make at this point will make up for Wal-Mart's carbon footprint across its corporate history, all the clean water thus far consumed by Coca-Cola, and the ecological resilience and indigenous food security that have been lost through Chevron's trial-and-error prospecting. 
 Mr. Diamond's and these companies' apologetics will do nothing to stay the environmental crisis that we face as a species. In the end, attempts to appease green consumers, readers and voters are really an admission of the endgame that we are in. 
 In answer to the headline question, ''Will Big Business Save the Earth?'': No it won't; it is probably too late.
 David John Goldstein Columbia, S.C., Dec. 8, 2009
 The writer is a visiting scholar of historical ecology at the University of South Carolina.
 To the Editor:
 It was refreshing to read Jared Diamond's essay about various corporate initiatives to be more ecologically conscious.
 I love to vilify the petrochemical and disposable merchandise companies as much as the next liberal, but I suspect that the biggest improvements will be made in conjunction with these megacorporations rather than against them. I can ride my bicycle everywhere I go, compost, go to bed at sundown, generate my own electricity and wear only hemp clothing. I can live off the grid entirely and still not make the kind of dent that Wal-Mart can simply by switching off its lights at night.
 There is still a place for my humble attempt at conservation and low-impact living. My choices apply economic pressure that indirectly affects corporations hoping to get my business.
 The problem is that vilifying the giant corporations is a favorite pastime of environmental organizations. This plays nicely to the choir and may raise some more funds for more vilifying, but it turns off everybody else. 
 If Wal-Mart has found profit in more ecological business practices, the more power to it. I still don't have plans to go to a Wal-Mart, but maybe I will someday when it starts selling a line of designer hempwear.
 Daniel Newsome Elizaville, N.Y., Dec. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 We cannot rely on the good intentions of business leaders to solve today's critical environmental challenges. Many companies are trying hard to be ''greener'' because it improves shareholder value. But even if the entire business community adopted current best practices, their incremental improvements would be swamped by economic growth, especially in developing nations.
 While we endlessly debate carbon policy, many leading scientists believe that we have already exceeded the ''safe operating space'' for humanity in three key indicators -- greenhouse gas emissions, nitrogen flows and biodiversity loss.
 To reverse these trends will require dramatic innovation and lifestyle modification. We need a global public-private collaboration led by bold and decisive policy makers.
 Joseph Fiksel Columbus, Ohio, Dec. 7, 2009
 The writer is executive director of the Center for Resilience at Ohio State University.
 To the Editor:
 Jared Diamond's essay prompts the question of whether large corporations are becoming environmentally progressive as a matter of principle, or whether there are occasions where enlightened environmental policy and business imperatives happen to align.
 Alas, one need only look at the slow progress of efforts to protect the environment and become more energy-efficient to know the answer. Chevron may be taking environmental precautions with its oil fields in Papua New Guinea, but fear of lawsuits is not the same as striving for a lighter environmental footprint because it is good for the planet.
 Part of Chevron's explanation for its policies is telling. Environmental regulations are becoming stricter, so it makes economic sense to get out in front of that. Intelligent legislation and regulation can create the conditions where this alignment would be the rule.
 Barry Kresch Westport, Conn., Dec. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Multinational corporations have a long way to go before they earn my trust as ''eco-saviors.''
 Believe me, the inherent contradiction between Coca-Cola's new bottle made partly from plant-based polymers and the waste represented by essentially repackaging tap water is not lost on your readers.
 Isaac Skelton Palo Alto, Calif., Dec. 7, 2009
 The writer is communications manager at World Centric, which makes compostable products and promotes ecological awareness.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ELEANOR GROSCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (77%); WRITERS (73%); GREEN MARKET (72%); FOOD SECURITY (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); COCA-COLA CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (54%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBIA, SC, USA (72%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



366 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Site Finds Money Can Bring Headaches

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Matthew L. Wald contributed reporting.

DATELINE: AIKEN, S.C. 

 BODY:
There is a phenomenon known as the lottery winner's curse, where those who suddenly strike it rich do not live happily ever after. If the experience at the Savannah River Site here is any guide, something like it may threaten the winners of stimulus bonanzas.
 Earlier this year, the nuclear site won one of the biggest pots of stimulus money, $1.6 billion, to accelerate its cleanup of radioactive waste left behind after decades of producing materials for the nation's nuclear weapons stockpile. But the pressure to spend the money quickly and effectively has led to a series of bitter disputes among officials that burst into public view this fall after the tensions reached critical mass. 
 At the heart of the dispute is the question of whether officials in Washington or at the site can do a better job managing the cleanup. The tensions have spurred a wide-ranging investigation by the Department of Energy's inspector general and a host of bitter accusations, including one that led to an inquiry into whether one stimulus official had really threatened another by saying she wanted to shoot him. 
 They have also raised questions not only about one of the biggest stimulus projects, but also about the oversight and operations at one of the country's biggest nuclear sites as it grapples with the complex question of the cleanup. 
 Some advocates of cleaning up the nation's nuclear legacy, a mammoth task that is expected to take decades and cost up to $260 billion to complete, said they feared that problems at such a prominent stimulus project could make it more difficult to get financing in the future. 
 ''It raises the question of credibility,'' said Leo P. Duffy, who was the first to lead the Department of Energy's environmental management program when it was created by President George Bush in 1989.
 The issue also demonstrates how the stimulus program's tight deadlines can put pressure on government officials and contractors and reveals the tensions that can arise when officials in Washington increase their oversight to see that the money is spent correctly, which often strikes officials on the ground as meddling. 
 Built just as the cold war heated up, Savannah River produced 40 percent of the plutonium in the nation's weapons stockpiles and is now largely focused on nuclear disposal. The stimulus money is being used to reduce the site's contaminated areas by 40 percent, paving the way for new uses, including a possible energy park one day.
 The difficulties at Savannah River began over the summer. The Department of Energy warned of weaknesses in the site's proposed stimulus plans, redirected some money from one private contractor to another and increased oversight. Some officials at the site bristled at what they saw as improper interference from Washington. 
 A series of disputes followed, prompting the Energy Department's inspector general investigation. There were also a few accidents at the site; stimulus work was briefly halted this summer after an acid spill injured several workers. 
 Finally, in one of the odder episodes, a stimulus official was barred from the site last month while an outside investigator looked into an accusation that she had threatened one of her superiors by saying she wanted to shoot him. The Aiken Standard recently lamented in an editorial that the troubles were ''unprecedented in the 50-plus-year history of the facility.''
 Ines R. Triay, the assistant secretary for environmental management at the Department of Energy, said the government and the contractor that operates the site had taken steps to make sure the program was on track to meet its goals of finishing the work by the end of 2011. 
 ''Every time that headquarters strengthens its oversight role, there's a tension that gets created between headquarters and the field site,'' Dr. Triay said in a telephone interview from Washington. ''That's a natural tension. It brings out the passion and commitment of all involved to get the job done.''
 A recent visit to the site showed that the cleanup was well under way. Workers hired with stimulus money were preparing to load drums of depleted uranium oxide, a byproduct of weapons production, onto special rail cars for shipment out of state. Other workers rifled through drums of waste contaminated with plutonium -- by hand, but with their hands protected by gloves that reached through a protective plexiglass barrier -- to remove liquids and aerosols so the waste could meet the guidelines to be accepted at a deep underground depository in New Mexico. 
 Still others were preparing to seal two nuclear reactors that were built in the 1950s to make plutonium and tritium. They are to entomb the remaining contamination in enough grout to fill four Home Depots and then seal the buildings to make them impermeable for a millennium. 
 The stimulus money has already created more than 1,600 new jobs and helped retain more than 900 -- a big help at a site whose work force had dwindled to about 11,000, less than half of what it was at its cold war peak. 
 Savannah River is owned by the government but operated by a private contractor. The contractor, Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, took over the 310-square-mile site in 2008, and less than a year later was given the biggest single stimulus contract in the nation.
 After officials warned that some of the plans for using the stimulus money were too vague, Dr. Triay said, she decided to redirect $200 million to another contractor, Savannah River Remediation, which was already working on a project to remove liquid waste at the site. 
 The main contractor, Savannah River Nuclear Solutions, a partnership of Fluor Daniel, Northrop Grumman and Honeywell, sent new leadership to the site in August. Its new president and chief executive officer, Garry Flowers, said in an interview that the program was now going well. ''It has taken a little time to get traction,'' he said. 
 It is unclear whether the accusations swirling around the site really threatened the work. The inspector general's office has spent weeks interviewing witnesses and reviewing documents, an Energy Department official said.
 The tensions reached a head this fall after reports surfaced that the federal site manager, Jeffrey M. Allison, who is well regarded in the area, was getting a new assignment. He complained in a private e-mail message -- which was first reported by Weapons Complex Monitor, a trade publication that has uncovered many of the twists and turns at Savannah River, and which was later obtained by The New York Times -- that he believed that he was being retaliated against for cooperating with the inquiry. 
 Energy Department officials denied that, saying they had been discussing a possible new assignment with him before the inquiry started, and urged everyone to cooperate with investigators. Mr. Allison remains the site's manager.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE SITE: The Savannah River Site received one of the largest stimulus awards, $1.6 billion, to clean up radioactive waste from producing materials for nuclear weapons. Nearly a quarter of the money will be used to seal off two reactors that were built in the 1950s to make plutonium and tritium, including the P-Reactor, above.
THE WORKERS: Some of the workers sift through drums of waste contaminated with plutonium to prepare them for shipment to an underground disposal site near Carlsbad, N.M. That repository does not accept liquid or aerosol cans, so workers must carefully remove any forbidden items and then repack the waste.
 THE RADIOACTIVE WASTE: Depleted uranium oxide, low-level waste, is placed in a temporary storage facility at Savannah River before it can be loaded by crane onto 52 specially made rail cars. The Energy Department hopes to ship most of it to a disposal site in Utah, but some officials there have raised objections to the plan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRETT FLASHNICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LOTTERIES (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); NUCLEAR WASTE (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



367 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: For Delivery Companies, Welcome Stress

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
Shortly after 7 p.m. on Monday, 12,000 FedEx employees in Memphis will stretch and flex in concert and gulp holiday-colored sports drinks in preparation for processing 7,000 packages a minute. 
 That day at the United Parcel Service world air headquarters in Louisville, Ky., employees will be poised to handle 100,000 boxes from Zappos, the online shoe emporium just 12 miles away. To release holiday tension, some Zappos employees sing karaoke on breaks or wear elf hats as they load conveyor belts with boots and shoes.
 Under the twinkling canopy that is the constellation of incoming aircraft in the Southern skies, FedEx and U.P.S. -- the nation's two biggest private package delivery companies -- will work at a frenzied pace to kick off the busiest shipping week of the year. 
 This holiday season, with the country still pulling out of a steep recession, gifts will be delivered with a little more glee. United States retail sales showed a slight increase in November, and delivery companies are expecting to see the resulting rise in holiday package traffic.
 ''We are already seeing signs of it earlier than years before,'' said John Dunavant, the vice president of Memphis operations for FedEx. On last year's busiest shipping day, FedEx says, it delivered 12 million packages; this year, the company is projecting 13 million.
 ''We always had the capacity,'' Mr. Dunavant said, ''but this year we surely expect the aircraft to be more full.''
 The FedEx fleet of 170 planes that will take over the Memphis runways between 10:30 p.m. Monday and 4:30 a.m. Tuesday, will have an addition: the company's third Boeing 777, which Mr. Dunavant said provided more capacity and greater fuel efficiency.
 By Tuesday, the packages will be in places like Canarsie, Brooklyn, where Vito Randazzo, a 20-year veteran courier for FedEx, will load his trucks at a warehouse at 6:30 a.m. and begin a 13-hour route in nearby Midwood. With the confluence of Hanukkah and pre-Christmas deliveries, his loads have already grown. 
 ''It feels good when you make a delivery and you hear a woman say to you, 'Oh, my daughter's gift is here already?' '' Mr. Randazzo said on Friday. 
 The swift gift-delivering requires armies of seasonal employees and year-round workers, like in-house meteorologists who provide forecasts for more than 200 locations worldwide. ''We prepare for this day all year,'' Mr. Dunavant said. ''The only thing that can kill us is weather.'' 
 Mel Bradley, the manager of weather services for FedEx, said the weather for Memphis on the all-important Monday evening was going to be clear. 
 Both the retail and package industries could use some fortunate winds after the past months. In October, U.P.S. announced that its third quarter profit fell by 43 percent, as shipments declined by 5.1 percent.
 ''While the beginning of the year was lackluster, we've seen the thawing out of the recession worldwide with increased activity at a pretty good pace,'' said Chris Katakis, the air transportation planning manager for U.P.S. 
 Karen Cole, a company spokeswoman, said, ''We're predicting between Thanksgiving and Christmas that we'll deliver 400 million packages total, and that's slightly up from last year.'' 
 The busiest shipping day for U.P.S. is Dec. 21, when it might deliver 22 million packages. The company calls Dec. 20 ''Super Sunday'' in Louisville and will add 37 planes that day, one more than last year. ''The difference is we're using larger planes than we did before,'' Mr. Katakis said. 
 The private companies are not the only ones feeling the crush. The United States Postal Service also expects Monday to be its busiest day, with about 830 million pieces of mail. A spokesman, Michael Woods, said that while overall mail volume was projected to be down (16.6 billion total pieces in 2009 compared with 19 billion last year), there had been ''double-digit growth in Priority Mail Flat Rate boxes,'' and more people were using online shipping services. 
 So far, the chocolate maker Jacques Torres said Internet sales were promising compared with last year. ''It looks like to me, it's going to be better,'' Mr. Torres said, as he geared up for Monday's peak day. 
 A U-Haul truck will be parked outside his Dumbo factory in New York, with employees loading packages all day. FedEx will back up its trucks to collect the packages bound for Memphis and beyond. ''Monday evening we are going to want to cry,'' Mr. Torres said about the pace. 
 But there is no rest for the weepy. ''It's crazy on the Internet and then crazy into the store until even the 24th,'' Mr. Torres said. 
 And on Christmas? ''We don't celebrate,'' he said. ''We sleep.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michelle Higgins working at Zappos, where employees sing karaoke to release holiday tension. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TYLER BISSMEYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PACKAGE SHIPPING (90%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); SEASONAL WORKERS (78%); RETAILERS (76%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (73%); SOFT DRINKS (73%); HANUKKAH (73%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); RETAIL SALES (67%); METEOROLOGY (63%); WEATHER (63%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (94%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%); BOEING CO (57%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (94%); UPS (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (94%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (94%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (94%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (91%) KENTUCKY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



368 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: RATES ARE LOW, BUT BANKS BALK AT REFINANCING

BYLINE: By DAVID STREITFELD

 BODY:
Mortgage rates in the United States have dropped to their lowest levels since the 1940s, thanks to a trillion-dollar intervention by the federal government. Yet the banks that once handed out home loans freely are imposing such stringent requirements that many homeowners who might want to refinance are effectively locked out.
 The scarcity of credit not only hurts homeowners but also has broad economic repercussions at a time when consumer spending and employment are showing modest signs of improvement, hinting at a recovery after two years of recession.
 Refinancing could save owners hundreds of dollars a month, which could be spent, saved or used to pay down debts. Extra spending would help lift the economy, and lower payments might spare some people from losing their homes to foreclosure. 
 The plight of homeowners has become a volatile political issue. On Friday, as the House passed a series of new financial regulations, it narrowly defeated a provision that would have allowed bankruptcy judges to modify the terms of mortgages. The measure was strongly opposed by the banking industry. 
 President Obama, in his weekly address on Saturday, placed much of the blame for the recession on ''the irresponsibility of large financial institutions on Wall Street that gambled on risky loans and complex financial products, seeking short-term profits and big bonuses with little regard for long-term consequences.'' 
 The president is scheduled to meet with banking executives at the White House on Monday in another administration effort to increase the flow of loans to consumers and small businesses. Among those expected to attend are representatives from Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and Goldman Sachs.
 An estimated six of 10 homeowners with mortgages have rates that exceed the 4.8 percent rate currently available on 30-year fixed mortgages, the least risky form of home loans. 
 Nevertheless, only half as many refinancing applications were reported last week than were reported at the beginning of January, the peak level for the year. The total dollar volume of refinancing activity in 2009 will be about $1 trillion. In 2003, another year when rates fell, it was $2.8 trillion.
 (Mortgage applications to purchase houses showed modest improvement for much of the year, but recently fell sharply to their lowest level in 12 years.)
 ''The government has succeeded in driving mortgage rates down to their lowest level in our lifetime,'' said Guy Cecala, the publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance magazine. ''That hasn't been a big home run, because a lot of people can't take advantage of it.''
 It is highly unusual for mortgage money to be available below 5 percent. Average rates fell as low as 4.7 percent in the 1940s, as the government held down interest rates to finance World War II, and stayed just below 5 percent until the early 1950s. Rates went above 5 percent in 1952 and stayed there -- until this year. 
 The super-low rates are not likely to last much longer. The Federal Reserve program that has driven rates to such lows, which involves buying $1.25 trillion in mortgage-backed securities, is scheduled to expire in March, and Fed leaders have said that it would not be renewed. 
 Some analysts believe rates could jump as high as 6 percent in the spring. On a $300,000 mortgage, such a jump would cost an extra $225 a month.
 Andrew Knapp, a sales executive in Bartlett, Ill., has tried twice to refinance, which would save his family several hundred sorely needed dollars every month. Lenders said the house had lost value and the Knapps had too much debt. ''There was no urgency for them to do anything,'' Mr. Knapp said. 
 The most recent Federal Reserve survey of lenders found that they were continuing to tighten terms for business and household loans. Banks say they are under pressure from regulators to raise their cash reserves, which means fewer loans. They also argue that a troubled economy breeds extreme caution.
 ''More than ever before, lenders are very conscious of making good quality loans,'' said Michael Fratantoni, the vice president for research at the Mortgage Bankers Association. ''They are looking at the value of the collateral and the credit quality of the borrower.''
 But some borrowers argue that more refinancings now might well forestall losses for the banks later.
 Mark Belvedere bought a condominium in a San Francisco suburb in early 2004 and refinanced it in 2005. He now owes $235,000 on a property that would sell for barely half that today. 
 Mr. Belvedere said he would be willing to live with all that lost equity if he could refinance his loan from a variable rate, which could eventually go as high as 12 percent, into a 30-year fixed term. 
 His lender said no, citing the diminished value of the property. ''It makes no sense and is so frustrating,'' Mr. Belvedere said. ''I'm ready and willing to pay the mortgage for the next 30 years, but they act like they'd rather have me walk away.''
 When Mr. Belvedere refinanced four years ago, the process was so easy he hardly remembers it.
 ''In those days, a refinance was like a free weekend in Vegas,'' said Mr. Cecala of Inside Mortgage Finance. ''Now it's between an Army physical and a root canal -- and that's if you're successful.''
 The current lending freeze owes much to the excesses of the boom. Mr. Belvedere's lender, IndyMac, failed in 2008 from too many bad loans. 
 ''The system was abused, so they threw it out the window,'' Mr. Cecala said. ''Now lenders are paranoid about every loan unless it is guaranteed to be the safest deal on earth.''
 An Obama administration program to encourage the refinancing of loans owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-controlled mortgage giants, is off to a slow start. 
 The Home Affordable Refinance Program, known as HARP, was designed to benefit between four and five million homeowners whose loans exceeded the value of their property by as much as 5 percent. But as of Sept. 30, only 116,677 loans had been refinanced.
 ''We're refining our understanding of borrower behavior,'' said a Treasury Department spokeswoman, Meg Reilly.
 The program was modified during the summer to refinance homes where the loan exceeded the value of the property by as much as 25 percent. But since lender participation is voluntary, they have the option of rejecting these loans -- and they often do, mortgage brokers say.
 Jeff Jaye, a mortgage broker in Danville, Calif., said only three of the refinances he submitted to the program were successful. More than a dozen were rejected for various reasons, including the existence of second loans or the borrower's lack of equity.
 ''It seems that the lenders are choosing which components of the HARP program to offer to consumers, which is unfortunate,'' the broker said.
 When it comes to refinancing loans that are too big to be in the government system, Mr. Jaye knows the difficulty first-hand.
 ''I have a perfect credit score, I make a good living and I've never been late with my mortgage in my life,'' he said. ''But as a self-employed businessman, there is no loan for me.'' He plans to dispose of his house in what is known as a short sale, where the lender agrees to accept less than it is owed. 
 At an industry conference last week, the Illinois Association of Mortgage Professionals, a brokers' group, proposed a federal program that would allow streamlined refinancings up to 175 percent of the median price in a local market. A quarter of the savings from the lowered payments would go into an escrow account to reduce the principal balance.
 ''The theory is simple,'' said Jeri Lynn Fox, the association president. ''If people have jobs and are making their payments at 7.25 percent, they will make their payments at 5 percent.'' 
 For Mr. Knapp, the sales executive, any such program would be too late. He has given up on the possibility of refinancing and is trying for a loan modification. If that does not work, there is one more solution: walking away from his home. 
 ''We're a flight risk,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Belvedere says his bank has refused to refinance his condo outside San Francisco, citing the property's lost value. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A4) CHART: Low, Low Rates: Interest rates on mortgages are approaching the lowest levels of the last 110 years. Figures compiled by Richard Sylla, an economist at New York University who has studied the history of interest rates, indicate that since 1900, the only period when rates were lower was around the Second World War. (Sources: ''A History of Interest Rates,'' Fourth Edition, by Sidney Homer and Richard Sylla (Wiley, 2005)
 Freddie Mac) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); FORECLOSURE (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (72%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); JUDGES (53%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



369 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: A Connecticut Caseload Soars

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Sometimes, an ailing child is the trigger.
 That was the case for a family at the emergency shelter in Bridgeport. Both parents had been working, but when one of their three children became seriously ill, the mother left her job and the family lost their apartment, said Lorrie Brooks, who coordinates homeless services at the Alpha Community Services Y.M.C.A. 
 The caseload at Alpha, the only emergency shelter for families in Bridgeport, has doubled, to an anticipated 350 families by the end of this year, from 170 last year, Ms. Brooks said. 
 Officials moved the family that had lost its apartment into transitional housing, where they can stay for up to 18 months while they save at least 10 percent of their income, and the mother has been able to go back to work. The hope is that they can become financially stable enough to get a new apartment. 
 The Y.M.C.A. center is also struggling with a changing clientele. It is seeing an influx of two-parent families, many of them middle class, who have no idea how to negotiate the system and may need just a month of shelter until their unemployment benefits come through, said Carmen Colon, the executive director. For renters, she said, there are cash grants available through HUD's Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-housing Program. But that money, part of the Obama administration's stimulus package, is not available for homeowners facing foreclosure.
 ''The funds will be available for them once they have lost their homes and become homeless,'' Ms. Colon said. ''It's just heartbreaking.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); PARENTS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); FORECLOSURE (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



370 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: The Homeless Are Wherever Jobs Vanish

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

DATELINE: HACKENSACK, N.J. 

 BODY:
 WHILE she was married and raising two daughters in the New Jersey suburbs, Penny Banach was steadily employed, her income providing ballast for the family. After a divorce in which her husband, who owned an automotive business, gained custody of the girls, Ms. Banach moved in with her father, taking care of him and living rent-free so she could pay child support.
 But after her father died, which hit her hard, she said, and she lost her job as an administrative assistant at a software company a year ago, she entered a steep decline. Struggling with mounting bills and depression, by February she was homeless, bunking in an ostensibly temporary shelter, a dingy, trailer-like structure that has stood in the shadow of the county government complex in Hackensack for 25 years. 
 ''I was lucky to get a bed,'' said Ms. Banach, 47 and clear-eyed, wearing jeans with a turtleneck and a dark blue fleece. ''You lose that paycheck, you don't know where you're going to end up,'' she added, sitting in a bright room in a new, permanent shelter that opened in October. 
 That insecurity is becoming more common in the suburbs these days. Officials say that homeless shelters are suddenly filled to capacity, with some suburban communities resorting to housing families in motels, for the first time in years.
 On Long Island, Nassau County officials have seen the number of people seeking shelter rise by 40 percent compared with this time last year, while in Suffolk, the number of families seeking shelter for the first time rose by 20 percent. In Connecticut, in an annual one-day survey taken in January, the number of people in emergency shelters was 33 percent higher than the year before. And at the Bergen County Housing, Health and Human Services Center's new building, where Ms. Banach has been staying, officials say their 90 beds have been occupied almost continuously since last month 
 ''We used to see really hard, down-and-out people only, and now we're seeing a lot of people who just are kind of in trouble and don't know anything about the safety-net system,'' said Mary Sunden, who manages the shelter. ''They're just kind of running out of money and they're getting evicted or they're getting an eviction notice and don't know what to do.'' 
 New York City's homeless population still dwarfs that of its suburbs, and it too has been rising, but not as sharply as those in the surrounding areas. In October, according to city officials, 3,114 families with children applied for shelter, 15 percent more than at the same time a year before, while the number of single adults who applied, 1,749, remained relatively stable, up from 1,743. 
 There are signs that homelessness is becoming more prevalent in suburbs nationwide. A report this summer by the Department of Housing and Urban Development found that from 2007 to 2008, the suburban and rural share of the homeless living in shelters grew to 32 percent from 23 percent, while the share in big cities fell to 68 percent from 77 percent. 
 ''Homelessness has been an issue, but has not shown up as visibly as it is now'' in suburbia, said Lawrence Levy, executive director of the National Center for Suburban Studies at Hofstra University, on Long Island.
 ''The average person didn't know someone who was homeless and rarely saw someone who was homeless as long as they stayed out of those pockets of poverty that have been there for a while. But they're seeing it more and more now, in train stations or other public places, and it's people that they know.''
 Homelessness is rising in the suburbs because of an influx of poorer residents living in uncertain situations, high concentrations of homeowners battered by the foreclosure crisis, and economies that are largely dependent on small businesses that are reeling from the lack of available credit. In addition, cities, which have been more aggressively focused on ending chronic homelessness than the suburbs, may have more services to prevent it.
 ''In Connecticut cities, we've done a decent job of creating permanent supportive housing and creating long-term opportunities, particularly for those people with ongoing and significant barriers to housing,'' said Carol Walter, executive director of the Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness. ''So the urban areas might be a little bit ahead in making a dent in the homeless population.''
 Part of the problem, experts say, is that unemployed homeowners are losing their properties as they exhaust severance pay and other benefits and still cannot find work. And among renters, many of the newly homeless have been evicted either because their buildings have gone into foreclosure or because landlords suddenly need to house members of their own families.
 ''We were dealing for so long with the subprime-mortgage and predatory-lending crisis, but now what we're seeing is a greater percentage of those losing their jobs'' among the newly homeless, said Connie Lassandro, director of housing and homeless services in Nassau County. ''We thought we were getting things under control, but the job losses are now creating a second wave of foreclosures. You can't save a home if there's no income.'' 
 That is a reality that Ms. Banach is still working her way through. When she first became homeless, it was February, and her days were filled with efforts to stay warm. She spent a lot of time in her car (''That's one thing I haven't lost in all this,'' she said) or in the library. 
 ''It was very painful, in the beginning, because you just feel hopeless,'' she said, her voice catching. ''You don't know what's going to happen. Sometimes it's hard living in a community environment with the different personalities.''
 Now, though, she is more hopeful. She moved to the new center, which has more of the feel of a Courtyard by Marriott than of a homeless shelter. Conceived as a one-stop center where homeless people can receive shelter as well as employment advice, medical treatment and meals, it operates with a ''housing first'' approach, in which clients are moved to permanent apartments with follow-up support. 
 ''We used to have this idea that people had to earn the right to housing,'' said Julia Orlando, the center's director. ''Here, they get the housing first. They're able to get out of the shelter, get out of homelessness, and through the case management engage with services and the community.''
 Suburban officials, often using federal stimulus money, have been employing a number of other strategies, like paying for people to stay in motels, opening new shelters, and providing cash assistance to help some people pay overdue rent. 
 So far, the ''housing first'' approach seems to be working for Ms. Banach, who has her eye on a modest one-bedroom nearby, where she feels it will be easier for her to find a job and help support her daughters again. One is already in college and the other, a high school senior, is looking at schools for next year. 
 ''It's really exciting,'' she said, her voice lifting. ''I just have to come up with the money.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MB1)
NO VACANCY: Bergen County's Housing, Health and Human Services Center is often full. Among the residents is Kevin Howley, right, with Angela Altschuler, a volunteer.
 SUBURBAN TREND: Bergen County's shelter battles homelessness. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); EVICTION (89%); FAMILY (89%); COUNTIES (88%); FAMILY LAW (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (77%); CHILDREN (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (69%); CITIES (60%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



371 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; QUESTIONS FOR MARTHA NUSSBAUM; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Gross National Politics

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
You're an eminent philosopher at the University of Chicago. What can you tell us about the state of ideas in America? There's just something about our public culture that's not that friendly to philosophy. I think religion is thought to be where you go with your big questions. 
 Or perhaps the business world. Yes. There has been a focus on skills that make a short-term profit and not enough thought about the preconditions for a successful democracy. 
 Your inquiries have lately revolved around the politics of physical revulsion, which you see as the subtext for opposition to same-sex marriage. What is it that makes people think that a same-sex couple living next door would defile or taint their own marriage when they don't think that, let's say, some flaky heterosexual living next door would taint their marriage? At some level, disgust is still operating. 
 In your book ''From Disgust to Humanity: Sexual Orientation and Constitutional Law,'' which will be out in February, you draw a distinction between primary disgust and projective disgust. What becomes really bad is the projective kind, meaning projecting smelliness, sliminess and stickiness ontoa group of people who are then stigmatized and regarded as inferior. 
 On the other hand, might one argue that disgust has been a positive force in evolution, keeping people away from dirt and germs? We are disgusted by lots of things that are not really dangerous, such as a sterilized cockroach, as studies have found. 
 Do you find blood disgusting? Blood in your veins is not disgusting. It's when blood comes into the open that it gets to be disgusting. The common property of all these primary disgust objects is that they are reminders of our animality and mortality. 
 Why are tears the one bodily emission that seems to inspire no disgust? Tears are purely human. Most people think that animals have tears in their eyes but they don't weep. 
 It is fair to call you a member of the religious left? Yes, the religious-rationalist left. I grew up in an Episcopal church, and I bonded with it mainly through music. I was in choirs all the time, and I still sing a lot. I converted to Judaism when I got married. I had kind of gotten to the end of my rope with Christian otherworldliness. I wanted a religion in which justice was done in this world. 
 How are you observing Hanukkah this week? I will be in my hotel in India with my travel menorah. My friend Josef Stern gave it to me for my bat mitzvah last year. It's about four inches long when it's folded, and then you unfold it and it even has the ordinary-size candles.
 Do you find it difficult being a single woman in her early 60s, in a culture that values youth over wisdom? I think that's been overplayed. I'm just happy being myself. I sing for an hour before dinner, and right now I'm singing Cherubino's aria from ''The Marriage of Figaro,'' and playing the part of a teenager is natural to me. I also go clothes shopping with my friends. It's one way I have fun. 
 Is that a leather top you're wearing in this photograph? Yes. I wore it when I went to speak at the first meeting of our University of Chicago lesbian and gay alumni association, and I thought it was so sweet for them toinvite somebody who wasn't gay to be their keynote speaker. But I wore this outfit, and they said, ''We want to thank you for wearing leather.'' 
 Do you think you will marry again? If I thought of getting married, I would worry that I was taking advantage of a privilege that I have that a same-sex couple wouldn't have. 
 In that case, how do you justify eating in a nice restaurant or even reading a book, since those, too, are privileges that many cannot afford? There are no legal barriers to anyone eating in a restaurant, but still, the point you raised troubles me, and I think we are obliged to promote greater economic equality.
 INTERVIEW HAS BEEN CONDENSED AND EDITED. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS CHADWICK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (75%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (75%); COHABITATION (74%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); HANUKKAH (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



372 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; OFF THE DRIBBLE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Bucks Fans Respond To Bogut's Incentive

BYLINE: By FRED BIERMAN and BENJAMIN HOFFMAN

 BODY:
Australia is a sports-mad country that is home to some of the world's rowdiest fans. Whether it's cricket, tennis, rugby or basketball, if Australia is playing you can bet that there will be an inordinate amount of noise coming from Australian fans. So when Andrew Bogut, the Bucks' Australian-born center, looked around the Bradley Center in Milwaukee last season and saw the anemic crowd participation, you could imagine his disappointment.
 ''We know we're a small market,'' Bogut said in a telephone interview, ''and with the way the economy is, it's sometimes hard for us to get 15,000 fans on a Wednesday night. A lot of times it was very, very quiet.'' 
 This season, Bogut decided to do something about it. He bought 100 lower-level seats for every home game and gave them to fans who he was certain would raise the decibel level at the Bradley Center. The result was Squad 6, a wild cluster of standing and screaming fans decked out in wigs, sombreros and even a man brandishing a wrestling-style championship belt.
 ''I thought it would be better just to get an atmosphere created in there,'' Bogut said. ''It's only 100 people, but the noise they make sounds like 1,000. It gives us some energy to feed off.'' 
 The Bucks' staff and Bogut, who wears No. 6, held three rounds of auditions for fans wanting to join the section. The first two were in October before the start of the season and the third was held outdoors in the cold last Sunday.
 Some of the highlights included two young men in matching Christmas sweaters pounding on pots and pans, a woman screaming that she was ''over'' Charlie Villanueva (who left the Bucks for the Pistons in the off-season), numerous ''Aussie, Aussie, Aussie, oi, oi, oi'' chants, and some of the worst rapping ever. All those acts were apparently accepted into Section 6. (Video of the tryouts can be found at NBA.com/bucks.) 
 Although the Bucks are .500, a closer look at their record may prove that Squad 6 is having an effect. Milwaukee is 2-8 on the road but 9-3 at home. The Dallas owner Mark Cuban said this about Squad 6 on Twitter: ''Those fans were the most fun fans I have seen on the road EVER. It made the atmosphere 100x better. More P.B.R. for them.''
 It's not all fun and games in Squad 6, however. Each fan essentially agrees to stand and cheer from tip-off to the final buzzer, and attendance is mandatory; miss too many games and you will lose your free seat. So far, no one has been removed. 
 Asked if the cheers coming from Squad 6 ever made him laugh on the court, Bogut laughed and said, ''All the time.''
 His personal favorite? ''When Joakim Noah was at the free-throw line and they were all singing 'Dude Looks Like a Lady,' '' Bogut said.
 Positive Signs of Love
 In a season that was over before it started, all the Minnesota Timberwolves could do was look for positive signs for the future. One man the Timberwolves, 3-20 going into Saturday's game, could look to was Kevin Love, the second-year forward out of U.C.L.A. He has been dominating in five games since returning from a broken hand.
 Coming off the bench in his first four games before starting Friday, Love has been a per-minute sensation. His average of 13.2 points a game isn't overly impressive, but it jumps to 22.2 points when taken over 48 minutes. For comparison, O. J. Mayo of the Grizzlies is scoring 17.6 points a game and 22.4 per 48 minutes.
 Where Love has excelled is rebounding. He is averaging 11.6 rebounds, which translates to 19.5 per 48 minutes. The league leader, Dwight Howard, pulls down 17.3 per 48.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bucks fans in 100 seats that Andrew Bogut has bought for every home game, raising the decibel level at the Bradley Center.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RANDY BELICE/NBAE, VIA GETTY IMAGES)
 Kevin Love has been dominant in his return.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAYNE MURDOCH/NBAE, VIA GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: MILWAUKEE BUCKS (94%)

PERSON: MARK CUBAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (93%) WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



373 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Can We Afford It?

 BODY:
Republican critics have a fiercely argued list of reasons to oppose health care reform. One that is resonating is that the nation cannot afford in tough economic times to add a new trillion-dollar health care entitlement. 
 We understand why Americans may be skittish, but the argument is at best disingenuous and at worst a flat misrepresentation. Over the next two decades, the pending bills would actually reduce deficits by a small amount and reforms in how medical care is delivered and paid for -- begun now on a small scale -- could significantly reduce future deficits. Here is a closer look at the benefits and costs of health care reform:
 STATUS QUO IS UNSUSTAINABLE More than 46 million Americans have no insurance, and millions more have such poor coverage that a severe illness threatens bankruptcy. Small employers are dropping coverage because of the cost. Those lucky enough to have insurance are struggling with higher premiums and co-payments, and worry that if they are laid off they could lose coverage. 
 Without reform, that bad situation will only get worse. The Commonwealth Fund, a respected research organization, warned that the average premium for family coverage in employer-sponsored policies would almost double in the coming decade, from about $12,300 in 2008 to $23,800 in 2020, with part paid by workers and part by employers. Premiums are also soaring for individuals who buy their own coverage directly. 
 BUT A TRILLION DOLLARS? Both the House and Senate bills would cover more than 30 million of the uninsured, and fully pay for it -- in part by raising taxes (either on wealthy Americans or high-premium health plans and certain manufacturers and insurers) and in part by cutting payments to health care providers and private plans that serve Medicare patients.
 A trillion dollars is still a lot of money, but it needs to be put in some perspective. Extending Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthy would very likely cost $4 trillion over the next decade. And the Medicare prescription drug benefit, passed by a Republican-dominated Congress, is expected to cost at least $700 billion over the next decade. Unlike this health care reform, it became law with no offsetting cuts and very little provision to pay for it.
 YES, THEY OVER-PROMISED President Obama and his aides have, at times, made it sound as if health care reform was the answer to runaway deficits and soaring premiums. That is true in the long run, but not now. 
 The Congressional Budget Office projects that the vast majority of Americans, those covered by employer-sponsored insurance, would see little change or a modest decline in their average premiums under the Senate bill. It predicts that the bills would reduce deficits in the first decade by a modest $130 billion or so and perhaps $650 billion in the next decade -- a small share of the burden.
 Critics scoff that Congress will never carry out the required cuts in payments to Medicare providers. It is true that Congress has repeatedly deferred draconian cuts in doctors' reimbursements. It has had no reluctance imposing other savings. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal analytical group, examined every major Medicare cut in deficit reduction bills over the past two decades. Virtually all of the savings imposed in the 1990, 1993 and 2005 bills survived intact. So did 80 percent of the savings in the 1997 Balanced Budget Act. 
 There is an easy way to stiffen Congress's spine: it should adopt separate pay-as-you-go rules that would require that any concession to providers be paid for by tax increases or compensating cuts in other programs.
 SHOULD WE GIVE UP ON SAVINGS? The House and Senate bills, and the stimulus legislation, have a lot of ideas that could bring down costs over time. 
 Electronic medical records could eliminate redundant tests; standardized forms and automated claims processing could save hundreds of billions of dollars; ''effectiveness'' research would help doctors avoid costly treatments that don't work; various pilot projects devised to foster better coordination of care and a shift away from fee-for-service toward fixed payments for a year's worth of a patient's care all show some promise. 
 These reforms are mostly untested. And the C.B.O. is properly cautious when it says that it does not see much if any savings for the government during the next decade, in part because of upfront costs and in part because no one knows what will work. These efforts are unlikely to be tried on any serious scale without reform.
 NO SINGLE FIX The debate is not over and sensible proposals are emerging in the Senate to strengthen cost control. Various amendments would increase the penalties for hospitals that infect patients, let Americans import cheaper drugs from abroad and modestly increase the powers of a new commission that is supposed to recommend ways to reduce Medicare costs. The House bill has cost-cutting measures that could be incorporated into a final bill, including authority for the government to negotiate lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries.
 Aggressive testing of promising ideas should increase the likelihood of ultimate success. And millions of uninsured Americans should not be forced to wait until all the answers are found.
 This editorial is a part of a comprehensive examination of the debate over health care reform. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); MEDICARE (76%); INSURANCE (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TAX INCREASES (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (69%); TAX LAW (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



374 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Now Entering Phase 2 Of the Market's Comeback

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE bull market that came to life in March may already be morphing into a new incarnation: a more mature rally that's less euphoric, broad-based or, for that matter, certain.
 For starters, not only has the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index been stuck in neutral for the past two months, the financial sector of the index has slowed considerably.
 Why is this important? When bull markets are born, stocks that fell hard in the prior downturn often outperform the rest of the market, said Robert C. Doll, global chief investment officer for equities at the investment management firm BlackRock. 
 That happened with health care in the first year of the rally that began in October 1990; with technology shares in 2003, a year after the Internet bubble stopped bursting; and recently with financial stocks. ''When that group starts to fade, that's a sign that a transition is at hand,'' Mr. Doll said.
 Financial stocks have gained more than 130 percent since the market's March 9 lows, making them the best performers in the S.& P. 500. Yet since October, shares of banks, brokerages and insurers have been the worst, falling 4 percent on average.
 There are other signs that this bull has changed. ''We are seeing a shift in leadership,'' said James B. Stack, editor of the InvesTech Market Analyst, an investment newsletter based in Whitefish, Mont. As financial stocks are slowing, ''growth'' areas like technology and consumer discretionary shares are pacing the market, Mr. Stack said.
 Along with health care -- another sector whose earnings tend to grow faster than the market as a whole -- technology and consumer discretionary stocks are up more than 6 percent, on average, since the start of October.
 On a relative basis, large-capitalization stocks are also beginning to shine -- another sign that the rally may be maturing.
 Historically, shares of small, fast-growing firms typically perform the best in the first 12 months of a bull market, as investors tend to prefer speculative stocks over stable growth companies. That was certainly the case earlier this year, when small stocks surged 76 percent between March 9 and Sept. 30, versus 52 percent for Standard & Poor's index of the 100 biggest domestic stocks.
 But by the second years of most bull market rallies, shares of large, industry-leading blue chips often start beating small-capitalization stocks.
 ''Since October, the large caps have been dominant,'' said Duncan W. Richardson, chief equity investment officer for Eaton Vance in Boston. In that period, the biggest stocks, based on market capitalization, have gained more than 5 percent, while small stocks have actually slumped nearly 1 percent.
 James T. Swanson, chief investment strategist for MFS Investment Management in Boston, said, ''These are glimmers that the market is being more selective in what it wants to own.''
 Investors should continue to be selective, he said, by sticking with larger companies with strong balance sheets and solid earnings growth.
 Mr. Swanson said that based on recent history, he believed ''the market will also start to favor dividend-paying stocks.'' In the second years of the last two bull markets, dividend-payers -- as measured by the Standard & Poor's 500 Dividend Aristocrats index -- have beaten the overall S.& P. 500 by an average of nearly 6 percentage points.
 Finally, if this bull has in fact entered a new phase, there are a couple of other distinct possibilities that investors need to consider. 
 One is the very real chance that the run-up may not survive to see its second birthday. Of the past 14 bull markets since 1921, three did not last a full 24 months, according to S.& P. 
 The other is the likelihood that if the bull market does survive, it will experience a correction of 10 percent or more. Mr. Stack studied bull markets going back to 1932, and what he found was that ''every one has had at least one 10 percent correction before peaking.''
 So far, this one has yet to undergo such a setback, though there have been three different pullbacks of at least 5 percent. Yet the typical bull declines by 10 percent at some point within its first 10 months -- which is why investors may want to start bracing themselves for a bumpier ride. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INSURANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MONTANA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



375 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: You Better Not Cry

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
GETTING onto someone's gift list this Christmas is like getting past a velvet rope.
 Victoria Shtainer narrowed hers by age and rank. Children? They're in. Top clients? In. Everyone else? Perhaps post-recession.
''This year I decided we're going to give presents only to the children, not the adults in the family,'' said Ms. Shtainer, a real estate broker in Manhattan with Prudential Douglas Elliman, ''because everyone is making less.'' 
 Like any businesswoman, Ms. Shtainer also wanted to give presents to clients, so she had to be strategic. She gathered some unopened wine and liquor from her apartment for re-gifting. ''My husband is a physician,'' Ms. Shtainer explained, ''he gets a lot of Cognac.'' Then she stocked up on chocolate at Costco. The candy and spirits went into gift bags, along with hand-written notes. And instead of paying for postage or a delivery service, Ms. Shtainer climbed into her car and dropped off each bag herself. 
 ''I really thought about who to give and what to give,'' she said, noting that she also donated 10 percent of what she would have spent for grown-ups to St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. 
 Whatever you're expecting to find around the tree or the menorah this season, expect a little less. A year after consumers first began grappling with the nation's economic turmoil, thrift has become a habit. The new frugality not only means fewer gifts, it means less costly ones, recycled ones and handmade and home-baked gifts. Penny-pinchers are giving greeting cards instead of presents, or presents without greeting cards. And nearly everyone is snipping someone from their list.
 ''We're seeing a less conspicuous consumption and a more back-to-basics consumption,'' said Christopher Haak, a senior analyst with Mintel, a market research group.
 Consumers have about 10 people on their Christmas lists, down from 16 people last year, according to the market research firm NPD. That means some holiday revelers won't be receiving so much as a slice of fruitcake. 
 Co-workers and in-laws are on the chopping block. Spouses, too. Or so they say. Marshal Cohen, the chief industry analyst for NPD, noted there is often an unspoken understanding between would-be thrifty lovers: ''The understanding is if I show up without a gift, you'll throw me out on the street,'' Mr. Cohen said.
 Of the various retailing surveys chronicling the collapse of materialism, one from American Express found that consumers are more likely to excise certain friends and family members than their pets.
 ''Dogs and pets are winning in this recession,'' said Kit Yarrow, a consumer psychologist and chairwoman of the psychology department at Golden Gate University in San Francisco. ''The things that nurture us and make us feel cared for, they've been elevated in stature lately. All auxiliary people are out.''
 While all that cutting back is good for consumers' bank accounts, many insist it is even better for their souls.
 Like most everyone, Susan Wenner Jackson is shorter on cash. So are her friends and extended family. Buying more stuff simply didn't make sense. 
 ''I don't need another bath-and-body set,'' said Ms. Jackson, who left her job as a copywriter in Cincinnati in September. She became a freelancer and blogs at Workingmomsagainstguilt.com. 
 What she does need is a night out with her husband. And so Ms. Jackson told her baby sitter, with whom she exchanges gifts, ''I would just love it if you would keep the kids overnight one night.'' 
 As for her family -- attention Jackson family members: please cease reading now -- Ms. Jackson plans to give them photographs of her children (taken by her photographer husband) in frames decorated by her 3-year-old daughter.
 ''That will make them so happy, and it won't cost us anything'' Ms. Jackson said. The nascent frugality, she said, ''forces you to be imaginative and create things that are meaningful.''
 Indeed, Deanna Duke, who lives in Seattle and writes about the environment and sustainability at Thecrunchychicken.com, said more of her readers are expressing a desire to make their own presents, even though they worry the recipients will think they cheaped out. 
 ''The biggest thing for people is getting over the mental fear,'' said Ms. Duke, who this holiday is doling out homemade jams, like a cinnamon-ginger-plum variety with the French aperitif Lillet, and an Indian masala-strawberry jam with pinot noir and port. 
 American households are expected to spend an average of $390 on Christmas gifts this year, down from $418 last year, according to the Conference Board, a business research group. 
 What consumers intend to spend often differs from what they actually spend. But November's decline in sales at nearly every major chain -- be it Saks, Macy's or Dillard's -- made clear that shoppers remain cautious. 
 ''This year I'm definitely limiting the list a little more than I usually do,'' said Karen Rose, a mother of two who works at the California Culinary Academy. 
 Instead of exchanging gifts, her family and friends are writing coupons that entitle one another to treats that play to their talents, be it back rubs or furniture painting. Ms. Rose and her siblings made similar coupons when they were children. ''This year it's coming back with gusto because it's pretty tight for everybody now,'' she said. 
 The return to simplicity, family and do-it-yourself projects is reflected in the purchases people are opening their wallets for. The International Council of Shopping Centers said last month that with consumers spending more time at home amid the recession, gifts related to cooking and home entertainment are doing well.
 Others appear to be following the ''it's the thought that counts'' maxim. A survey commissioned by the Internet retailer Cardstore.com suggests that some 20 percent of shoppers plan to save money by sending a greeting card instead of a gift. 
 Retailers, certainly, are doing anything they can to drum up sales, even if the gift costs $1.95. 
 In a recent commercial for Hallmark, an adult daughter leaves a card for her mother on a kitchen counter, then tells her in person, ''We couldn't have made it through this last year without you, Mom.'' Next comes the narrator's voice: ''This year, appreciation may be the best gift of all.''
 Appreciation costs a little more for those sending the new digital card from American Greetings and Target. The card, at $19.99, holds up to 50 digital photographs that can be viewed as a slide show, and the sender can record a personal greeting.
 Retailing industry professionals are divided about whether this penury is any more permanent than the 76-foot-tall Norway spruce in Rockefeller Center. 
 A report published last month by the American Customer Satisfaction Index said that there was little evidence in favor of a sea change in spending habits, noting that the 1990-91 recession ''suggests that consumer memory is short.'' 
 However long the frugality lasts, this year you probably don't have to feel guilty about trimming the gift list. 
 ''I understand,'' said Ms. Shtainer, the real estate broker. ''I don't expect anything from anyone this year.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JARED ANDREW SCHORR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (87%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (87%); FAMILY (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (74%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2009



376 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: No Balloon? Point, Click, Get on TV

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
THERE are better ways to be selected for a reality TV show than by crashing a White House state dinner or concocting a balloon hoax.
 A growing number of Web sites now play the role of middleman, connecting aspiring contestants with casting directors. And as the reality genre has thrived, so has the cottage industry of online talent scouts that serve it -- sites like RealityWanted, Talent6 and GotCast, where people can find casting calls for TV shows and submit their resumes, often for a monthly fee. 
 ''The lengths that people will go to just to get on these shows is pretty ridiculous,'' said Roz Taylor-Jordan of Cast Iron Productions, who is casting season five of ''America's Got Talent'' on NBC. 
 She looks favorably on the casting sites. ''We can't be everywhere all the time, so the more people I have mining for me, the better,'' she said. 
 From the perspective of an aspiring contestant, the sites make fame look just a few clicks away. ''Jerry Seinfeld is hand-selecting couples for his brand new NBC comedy series about married life,'' says a notice posted prominently on RealityWanted. ''We need couples who bicker about NOTHING!'' The site lets people ''apply now'' to that show and others, like ''The Bachelorette'' on ABC. 
 Richard Heene, who admitted to lying to authorities about his son being carried away in a helium balloon, was a member of RealityWanted, one of countless people looking for fame -- or perhaps just employment -- from the reality TV boom. In a down economy, some publicity seekers on these Web sites are really just job seekers, applying for weight-loss shows and dating competitions the way others apply for office jobs on Monster.
 ''At the end of the day,'' said Lisa Berger, an executive vice president at E!, ''these people want two things: they want fame and they want money.''
 (It is unclear how Bravo, the NBC-owned cable channel behind ''The Real Housewives of D.C.,'' met Michaele and Tareq Salahi, the couple who shook President Obama's hand after gaining entrance to the White House last month. The ''Housewives'' franchise did not hold public casting calls for this version of the show.)
 Casting directors say they lean on Craigslist, Facebook, sites like RealityWanted and InfoList, and their own databases of contestants. The matchmaking works in both directions: casting calls for reality shows in New York and Los Angeles are regularly advertised on Craigslist, and some talent agencies use Facebook to urge reality TV fans to apply. 
 Reality TV is competitive, and contestants will go to great lengths for a leg up. Talent6 charges its members $35 a month. RealityWanted has a tiered pricing system: access is free, but for $4 or $8 a month, people can get extras like instant alerts about casting calls.
 Some big shows -- like ''America's Got Talent,'' which draws 100,000 applicants a year -- don't need to recruit so aggressively, but for other shows, these sites play an important role.
 ''They cater to what we're looking for,'' said Jodi Thomas, a casting director for ''The Biggest Loser'' and other shows. Broadly speaking, she said, this means people with outgoing personalities whom viewers can relate to. 
 Ms. Thomas was in Detroit and Chicago last week to recruit families for ''Losing It With Jillian,'' a weight loss show on NBC with the trainer Jillian Michaels of ''The Biggest Loser.'' Beforehand, she posted an ad on RealityWanted asking -- in all capital letters -- ''Are you ready to change you and your loved one's lives? NBC's Jillian Michaels is coming to your home!'' Dozens of people applied online.
 Potential contestants ''think we're going to pay more attention if they're on these sites, and it's true,'' Ms. Thomas said.
 Indeed, in early October, just days before the Heene family's nationally televised balloon stunt, Ms. Thomas noticed the Heenes in an audition tape for a cable game show (for contractual reasons, she can't say which one). But she rejected them, she said, because ''something seemed off.'' She recalled thinking: ''Great story, great family, but something's not right.''
 Eliminating people who are desperate or unhinged is one of the hardest parts of the job, Ms. Thomas said. The middleman sites do not conduct background checks, so it falls to the production company to ferret out people with problems. 
 With hundreds of reality shows on television or in production, casting is always happening. Channels like Bravo, E! and VH1 ask casting directors for people who meet certain criteria, and the directors come back, ideally, with lists of candidates. 
 ''For me, it's good because my whole job is to get the word out to as many people as possible,'' Ms. Taylor-Jordan said. The sites do put up filters. If a show is looking, say, for women in their 40s, a man in his 30s would find it difficult to apply. ''They come back with a tailor-made list of people, which we can then whittle down,'' said Damla Dogan, a vice president at the E! channel.
 For those who do not make the cut, there is still hope: producers from daytime talk shows like ''Dr. Phil'' and ''The Tyra Banks Show'' regularly book people who have posted their resumes on RealityWanted.
 Mark Yawitz, a co-founder of RealityWanted, was himself once a frustrated reality TV contestant. Ten years ago, he tried out for ''Survivor'' and ''Big Brother.'' The rejections stung; looking back, he said, he was trying too hard. At the casting calls, ''I put on an act,'' he said, ''but they want real people.''
 Having been bitten by the reality TV bug, Mr. Yawitz, who spent 10 years running an executive search firm for medical companies, was surprised that a comprehensive casting site didn't exist for unscripted shows, so he set out to build one. The site -- which employs four people full time and turns a profit, Mr. Yawitz said -- now serves up new casting calls almost every day. 
 Melody DeLong, 26, an actress and model from Chattanooga, Tenn., said she landed three TV appearances via RealityWanted, including one on a TLC wedding show called ''Happily Ever Faster.'' While she can find casting information on the Web sites for specific TV shows, ''RealityWanted makes it easier and puts it all on one Web site,'' she said.
 Ms. DeLong said reality TV can help to fill in the gaps of unemployment. ''Even though the shows don't pay a lot, it's great exposure and sometimes even a free family vacation,'' she said.
 Reality TV executives are often criticized for picking provocative cast members. But there is more to the selection process than finding people ''who are going to jump off the screen,'' said Dave Noll, the president for television of Notional, the company that produces ''Chopped'' for the Food Network and ''Don't Sweat It'' for HGTV. When casting, ''you're really making a business decision,'' Mr. Noll said, noting that relationships with talent sometimes last for years.
 Perhaps because the decisions are so important, the matchmaker Web sites are not universally accepted in Hollywood. Some executives say they make it too easy for people to apply.
 ''In theory, you hope you'd find great people from these Web sites,'' said Randy Bernstein, a co-owner of the agency Casting Duo. ''But I'm still old-fashioned, and I believe in recruiting and hand-picking talent.''
 Some shows, Mr. Bernstein said, require casting directors to recruit vigorously. For ''Top Chef,'' for instance, Bravo does solicit contestants online, but also tries to identify and recruit people at the top of their field. 
 Online applications are more valuable for a show like ''Dance Your Ass Off,'' which Mr. Bernstein is helping Oxygen cast. The show combines weight loss and dancing, so ''we're looking for people who are sitting at home, watching TV all day,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CASTING CALL: Mark Yawitz runs the Web's RealityWanted.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(ST10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); TALENT AGENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); MARRIAGE (66%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); CRAIGSLIST INC (51%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: JERRY SEINFELD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



377 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; LOCAL STOP JACKSON HEIGHTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: A Vibrant, Polyglot Hub

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
Sprawling out from beneath the rumble of the elevated 7 train, Jackson Heights, Queens, may be the most diverse neighborhood in the most diverse county in the country. The low-slung brick garden apartments, designed as a middle-class alternative to tenements, have also proved attractive to immigrants: South Asians, Latin Americans and, more recently, arrivals from Tibet and Nepal. The food, wares and entertainment they have brought with them make Jackson Heights a bustling polyglot neighborhood not to be missed by tourists or New Yorkers. Conveniently, it is also one of the best-connected neighborhoods in Queens, with the Roosevelt Avenue subway stop linking the 7, E, F, G, R and V lines. 
 NOON Gulzar Beauty Salon, 74-01B Roosevelt Avenue, (718) 779-2800, has all the linoleum charm of a barber shop. But it is a reasonably priced place to get rid of unwanted hair through either traditional Indian threading or waxing. The difference? Experiencing your pain as pinpricks spread out over time or in sudden, violent yanks. Eyebrows and upper lip each start at $5 (as does nose waxing). My attendant kept pushing a facial, which admittedly was a bargain at $20, or half off the standard price. 
12:30 P.M.The neighborhood's Indian restaurants attracted the Zagat crowd long ago, but cutting-edge foodies are now drawn to the Himalayan eateries that have popped up for Tibetan and Nepali immigrants. Common offerings include thukpa, Tibetan noodle soup; momos, Himalayan dumplings; and samyeling, a beef patty encased in fried dough. (How can you go wrong with fried dough?) Two well-loved but hard-to-find spots are Bombay Chat and Samyeling, small counters tucked into 73-19 37th Road, that offer Tibetan and Indian street food in one place. To come upon the neon sign at the establishments -- ''Coffee Bagel Momo Tea'' -- makes for an ''Only in New York'' moment.
 2 P.M.Top off lunch with traditional Indian sweets, like orange spirals of jalebi, or marzipanlike kaju pista rolls. The treats are on the sugary side, but with their colors, geometric shapes and metallic foil, they look like Christmas ornaments. At Raja Sweets and Fast Food, 72-31 37th Avenue, (718) 424-1850, the treats range from $4.99 to $6.99 a pound.
 2:30 P.M.Wander down 74th Street and gawk at the dense concentration of sari and gold shops, each selling intricate jewelry by the gram. Some Indians say they prefer 22-karat gold because of its luster, malleability and long-term value. For more economical finds, try Golden Music, 37-13 74th Street, (718) 205-0211, which sells $8 workout DVDs featuring bhangra, traditional Indian dancing, spiced up by Sarina Jain (the ''Jane Fonda of India''). Butala Emporium, 37-46 74th Street, (718) 899-5590, sells Meswak toothpaste, which is made from the twigs of the miswak tree, popular for tooth-cleaning in the Middle East and South Asia. Compared with online prices, the toothpaste is a bargain at $4.
 3:30 P.M. Stroll along 34th Avenue to the meditative labyrinth behind Community United Methodist Church, 81-10 35th Avenue, (718) 446-0690. It's a bit of a walk, but you will encounter Jackson Heights emerging (Rudy Volcano boutique, 79-07 37th Avenue, (718) 651-7100) and vestigial (Jahn's Ice Cream parlor, 81-04 37th Avenue, (718) 651-0700). The paved labyrinth, a flat, circular space in the courtyard, is generally open to the public when the church is open. If the glass doors are locked, track down the custodian to admit you.
 4:30 P.M. Patel Brothers, 37-27 74th Street, (718) 898-3445, is the granddaddy of Indian groceries and a worthwhile stop before heading home. While known to immigrants for hard-to-find homeland products like Thums Up soda, it also offers crossover favorites like cardamom kulfi ice cream, roti bread and microwaveable aloo tikki, a spicy potato dish. The produce bins outside offer up round eggplants, bumpy Indian karela melon and fresh okra. One item to snag: cocktail party-size samosas at $5.99 for a box of 24 (spinach and paneer variety recommended). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JULIE GLASSBERG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (76%); FAST FOOD (76%); BARBER SHOPS (74%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (69%); CHRISTMAS (68%); DANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (70%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%) TIBET (94%); NEPAL (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); SOUTHERN ASIA (73%); INDIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



378 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1759 words

HEADLINE: Church's Compact With U.S. Spares Immigrants Detention

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: HIGHLAND PARK, N.J. 

 BODY:
When the young pastor started his ministry here at the century-old Reformed Church in 2001, he gave little thought to the separate congregation of Indonesian Christians who shared the sanctuary. They worshiped quietly in their own language on Sunday afternoons, at the end of a hard week's work in the factories and warehouses of central New Jersey. 
 But by May 2006, when they began pleading to sleep at the church, the pastor, the Rev. Seth Kaper-Dale, had to pay attention. At the apartment complex where many Indonesians lived, armed federal immigration agents in a single night had rounded up 35 men with expired visas and outstanding deportation orders, as their wives and children cried and other families hid. 
 Suddenly a prosperous suburban congregation was confronted with the labyrinthine world of immigration law and detention. This year, when one of its own leaders, an Indonesian, was detained for months, only the pastor's passionate, last-ditch efforts saved him from deportation. And the church reached a new level of activism -- with extraordinary results. 
 Under an unusual compact between the pastor and Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials in Newark, four Indonesians have been released from detention in recent weeks, and 41 others living as fugitives from deportation have turned themselves in under church auspices. Instead of being jailed -- as hundreds of thousands of immigrants without criminal records have been in recent years -- they have been released on orders of supervision, eligible for work permits while their lawyers consider how their cases might be reopened. 
 Though agency officials say the arrangement is simply an example of the case-by-case discretion they often use, the outcome has astonished advocates and experts in immigration enforcement, and raised hopes that it signals some broader use of humanitarian release as the Obama administration vows to overhaul the immigration system. 
 Still, for those who turn themselves in, the leap of faith carries big risks. For now, they can check in at a federal office every three months and, if granted a work permit, can secure a driver's license. But they are also vulnerable to immediate deportation. Just this fall, nine Indonesian Christians in Seattle who had been on supervised release for years were abruptly detained, and some were deported. 
 The immigration agency issues about 10,000 orders of supervision annually, but they typically involve people who cannot be deported for practical reasons, like a homeland that will not take them back. The agency detains roughly 380,000 people a year. 
 ''I'm totally on uncharted waters,'' Mr. Kaper-Dale, 34, a Vermont native who shares the pulpit with his wife, Stephanie, said in October as he began seeking volunteers willing to place themselves in the government's hands, from about 200 candidates not only at his church, but at several other New Jersey congregations. 
 The first ones to step up had to overcome fear born of experience.
 ''Very, very scary,'' said Augus Alex Assa, 46, who fought tears as his 5-year-old daughter, Christia Celine, clung to him in the van from the church, in Middlesex County, to an immigration enforcement unit in Newark. ''In my heart, I hope I will stay in the United States.''
 Like most of the Indonesians, Mr. Assa and his wife, Grace, came on tourist visas that were suddenly easy for poor people to get in the 1990s, when a booming economy welcomed foreign labor with a wink and a nod. Everything changed after 9/11, when a government directive required the ''special registration'' of men ages 16 to 65 who had entered the country on temporary visas from a list of predominantly Muslim countries, including Indonesia. If they did not register, it was understood, they would be considered terrorist fugitives. 
 Most of the Indonesian Christians complied, on the advice of pastors. They hoped that honesty would open a path to legal status rather than deportation to their homeland, where many had faced discrimination and sectarian violence. 
 Instead, their appeals for asylum were denied in most cases, some through inattention by inept or overburdened lawyers. And those who registered became easy targets when national immigration politics demanded a crackdown.
 During the 2006 raid, Mr. Assa hid in a closet when immigration agents came to the door, as his wife covered their daughter's mouth. For two weeks afterward, they and others slept at the church. 
 About 50 men were eventually deported, typically after lengthy stays in immigration jails, leaving wives struggling to support American-born children. ''We were shocked, but we were kind of paralyzed,'' the pastor said.
 On Jan. 12, the detention of one of their own spurred the congregation to action. Harry Pangemanan, a popular Bible study leader, was picked up by immigration agents as he left for work as a warehouse supervisor. He and his wife, Mariyana, parents of two American-born daughters, were the only Indonesians among the 300 people in the main congregation.
 Church members organized daily visits to the detention center, a 40-minute drive away in Elizabeth, N.J., while the pastor appealed to Congressional and immigration offices. When Mr. Pangemanan reached out with his Bible to fellow detainees, the congregation visited them, too. Appalled to find asylum-seekers behind barbed wire and plexiglass, they began holding vigils outside the center, run for profit by the Corrections Corporation of America. 
 Some church members resisted. ''As a construction worker who is directly affected by immigration, it's very hard,'' said Rich Lord, 39. ''I felt like, they're taking my jobs away.''
 But his union and his faith changed his mind, he said: ''There's pregnant women so desperate in Mexico that they're willing to cross the desert so their child will be born in the United States. And as a Christian, I have to remember that Mary, the mother of Jesus, had to flee their homeland.'' 
 Then, at 5 a.m. on March 31, came bad news: Mr. Pangemanan was being put on a plane to Indonesia. The pastor threw on his clerical collar and ran through Newark Liberty International Airport in a frantic search for the right gate, determined to pray with his friend before he was sent away. 
 By the time the pastor found the flight, the passengers had already boarded. As he tells the story, he prayed at the gate, so visibly upset that an airline worker let him on the plane. 
 Mr. Pangemanan was in the last row between two immigration agents -- bound not for Jakarta but for a detention center in Tacoma, Wash. -- when he saw his pastor coming down the aisle. An astonished agent asked, ''How did this guy get in here?'' 
 ''And I just put my finger up,'' Mr. Pangemanan recalled, pointing heavenward.
 The agents let them pray briefly; the pastor said goodbye but vowed to keep trying. Back at the church, he phoned every number on the immigration agency's Web site. 
 He still cherishes the recording of the only message that came back, from Dora B. Schriro, who has since left the agency but was then special detention adviser to Janet Napolitano, secretary of homeland security. Within a week of their conversation, Mr. Pangemanan was back in New Jersey with his family, his case under reconsideration by the Board of Immigration Appeals. 
 When immigration agents arrested several more Indonesian men in late September, church leaders took their effort to a new level, meeting with Scott Weber, director of the detention and removal field office in New Jersey, and agency envoys from Washington.
 David J. Venturella, acting director of the agency's national detention and removal operations, said he approved the discussions. ''We encourage all of our field office directors to exercise prosecutorial discretion on a case-by-case basis,'' he said. ''This is a perfect example.''
 Mr. Weber rejected the ministers' proposal for a church-run alternative to detention, but offered his own: In groups of 5 or 10, twice a week, the church could bring in the Indonesians they vouched for, and lawyers committed to the lengthy process of seeking their full case files. 
 Unless something was amiss -- a hidden criminal conviction, a false address -- the former fugitives could walk out the same day. Even before the details were arranged, Mr. Weber released four recent Indonesian detainees, one a Muslim. 
 Amy Gottlieb, immigrant rights director for the American Friends Service Committee in New Jersey, who has been dealing with the field office since 1996, called it ''an amazing moment.''
 ''One, you just never believe that ICE is going to work with you on anything, given the history,'' she said. ''And given the intensive arrest efforts for the last two or three years, it's hard to believe that people are ready to recognize that every single case has a human angle.''
 Rex Chen, the supervising lawyer at Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Newark, remains more pessimistic, likening himself to a financial adviser who warns, ''This mutual fund could collapse.'' 
 While the arrangement may buy the Indonesians a year or two, he said, unless grounds are found to reopen their cases, or Congress changes immigration law, they could find ''they just moved up from not known, to on the list, to you're taking the steps up to the airplane.''
 There are no guarantees, acknowledged Melinda Basaran, another participating lawyer and chairwoman of the New Jersey chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. But many of the Indonesian wives, who did not have to register after 9/11, will soon have been here 10 years without drawing official attention, making them eligible to apply for green cards.
 The more pressing question is who is included in the supervised release, said Joan Pinnock, another lawyer involved. Word of mouth has brought calls from Washington State, Pennsylvania and New Hampshire, where many Indonesians fled after the New Jersey raid -- and where their detention and deportation continues unabated. But Newark immigration authorities have ruled out their return to New Jersey.
 ''I would love to get this for my Jamaican clients,'' Ms. Pinnock said, echoing others who pointed to different groups, like the many Muslims affected by special registration. 
 On a recent Wednesday night, in a church meeting room hung with the quilts of four generations of grandmothers, fathers restored to their families thanked God and the congregation.
 ''I'm proud of my church,'' Mr. Pangemanan said. ''Not just the pastor, the whole church.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Harry Pangemanan, right, and the Rev. Seth Kaper-Dale. At left, Augus Alex Assa prepared to face federal officials. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A38) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); IMMIGRANT DETENTION CENTERS (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); VOLUNTEERS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); SUPERVISED RELEASE (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



379 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; JOURNEYS SKI GUIDE 2010; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1625 words

HEADLINE: What's New, on and off the Slopes

BYLINE: By LIONEL BEEHNER

 BODY:
THOSE hoping for shorter lift lines and emptier ski lodges may be disappointed this winter. Sure, the recession may scare off some fair-weather skiers. But cheap flights, discounted passes and fewer blackout days on ski-and-stay packages will lure even the thriftiest of skiers -- not to mention the earlier-than-expected snowstorms that buried the West last month. A bad economy may also mean more bankers-turned-ski bums. 
 Still, don't expect your favorite ski mountain to look too different from past seasons. Most resorts did not roll out expensive new lifts and lodges, but rather just tweaked around the margins. New trails or bowls? Not many this winter.
 There are exceptions, of course. A few resorts in Utah and Colorado are opening luxury condos and faux Alpine villages with Trump-like aplomb. But those were green-lighted before the economy hit the skids. Not all upgrades require multimillion-dollar investments. Old stalwarts like Jackson Hole, Wyo., for example, have jumped on the iPhone bandwagon with a new app that offers up-to-the-minute ski conditions and GPS tracking. 
 Here's a roundup of what else is new at North America's ski resorts this season. 
 East
 A recession, the thinking goes, keeps skiers closer to home. That is good news for Eastern ski resorts. Though not many new trails were cut, the region still has some tricks up its sleeve. 
 In New York, Gore Mountain (518-251-2411; www.goremountain.com), an unpretentious resort in the heart of the Adirondacks, is opening a snazzy Ski Bowl Lodge this season to replace a rundown one, but salvaged the original fireplace. The mountain also opens a steeper, wider half-pipe at its Ski Bowl Park. 
 Up in Tupper Lake, Big Tupper (www.skibigtupper.org) folded in 1999 after financial difficulties. The mountain is set to reopen Dec. 26, thanks to a staff of 60 volunteers. Its $15 lift ticket feels very 1999.
 Not since Woodstock has so much holistic therapy hit upstate New York. Zen-minded skiers can relax at Belleayre Mountain's meditation, yoga and tai chi courses, all part of its new ''snow therapy'' program to avoid injuries (845-254-5600; www.belleayre.com). 
 In Vermont, apres ski at Stratton (802-297-4000; www.stratton.com) just got sweeter. The day lodge at the Sun Bowl Adventure Center now stays open late for after-parties at its spiffy new Loft bar, which offers nice mountain views. Families, on the other hand, may appreciate the new four-lane snow tubing park at Sun Bowl. 
 And at Stowe Mountain Resort, expect to be pampered at the new Front Four Private Club (802-760-4700; www.stowemountainlodge.com), a palatial three-story penthouse at the Stowe Mountain Club at Spruce Peak. The club's 34 luxury suites come equipped with full-service kitchens, flat-screen televisions and a private lounge, with top units fetching a cool $5,519 a night. 
 Canada
 For skiers flying into eastern British Columbia, the runway at the Kelowna Airport was recently extended by 1,700 feet, allowing for larger airplanes to land and thus for travelers from the United States to bypass transfers in Calgary or Vancouver. That's good news for Big White Ski Resort (250-765-3101; www.bigwhite.com), an out-of-the-way resort with big ambitions. Situated less than an hour's drive southeast of Kelowna, the mountain opens the second phase of its 96-unit Stonegate Resort (250-491-8200; www.stonegatespa.com), an earthy-chic residence with an attractive, oblong outdoor pool. 
 Not far from Kelowna, little-known Silver Star Mountain Resort is planning to open new luxury homes at FireLight Lodge (800-663-4431; www.firelightlodge.com). The 96 units have a contemporary feel -- outdoor hot tubs, barbecue pit, a movie theater -- not to mention impeccable views of the Monashee Mountain range. 
 Canada's newest megaresort, Revelstoke, is finally starting to take form. After much fanfare, the Nelsen Lodge (604-730-6600; www.thenelsenlodge.com) opened last March. A new wing goes online this winter, offering 56 pet-friendly suites with private balconies overlooking the mountain. The lodge also houses the Rockford, a new Asian-theme restaurant, and the Revelstoke Outdoors Center, a one-stop shop for daredevil skiers that offers clinics on avalanche survival and tutorials on heli-skiing. 
 And, of course, there's Whistler Blackcomb (800-766-0449; www.whistlerblackcomb.com), which is hosting the 2010 Winter Olympics. The resort is already swarming with world-class athletes and pre-Olympics buzz. Yet, unnoticed amid all the hype, the mountain has quietly begun a renewable energy project that pumps water from Fitzsimmons Creek to power the entire resort year-round. Meanwhile, its ski school has gone Big Brother: Students get a nifty GPS tag slapped on their jackets to prevent them from getting lost. 
 West
 Don't tell the folks in Park City, Utah, that there is a recession. The Canyons Resort is opening not one but two ski-in ski-out properties this season. The 84-unit Escala Lodges (435-649-5400; www.thecanyons.com) mixes Old World charm -- stone fireplaces, knotty alder cabinets -- with modern luxuries like whirlpool tubs and heated parking lot. Even nicer is the 175-unit Dakota Mountain Lodge (435-647-5500; www.dakotamountainlodge.com), the first slopeside property in the Waldorf Astoria Collection. It includes a 16,000-square-foot spa, personal ski valet and the Spruce restaurant; an 18-hole golf course is expected to break ground later in 2010. 
 The St. Regis Deer Crest Resort (435-940-5700; www.starwoodhotels.com/stregis), which just opened in nearby Deer Valley, may be Utah's most exclusive new resort this winter. Situated in a gated community reachable by funicular, the resort's 181 guest rooms come with flat-screen TVs, nightly turndown service and, in suites, even a butler -- this is a St. Regis, after all -- not to mention a split-level infinity-edge heated swimming pool, a 30,000-square-feet spa, and a Jean-Georges Vongerichten restaurant.
 Don't forget to bring your iPhone charger to Jackson Hole (307-733-2292; www.jacksonhole.com) this winter. The ski resort released a nifty JH Tapped app ($6.99), the first of its kind for a major ski area, which allows skiers to track their friends, check the latest snow and weather conditions, and see Web-cam views of trails. 
 In Truckee, on the northern part of Lake Tahoe, the Ritz-Carlton Highlands Lake Tahoe (530-562-3000; www.ritzcarlton.com/LakeTahoe) scheduled its opening for Dec. 9 with 170 rooms midmountain and offers terry bathrobes, turndown service and a 17,000-square-foot spa and fitness center with two swimming pools. 
 And finally in California, commercial air service to Mammoth Mountain (760-934-2571; www.mammothmountain.com) is scheduled to begin Dec. 17.Horizon Air (800-547-9308; www.horizonair.com) is running direct flights from San Jose from $69 each way, making the resort accessible to a broader population. To reduce congestion on its Village Gondola, a new trail will link the base lodge to the town of Mammoth. 
 Colorado Rockies
 The greening of America's ski resorts continues. A LEED-certified hotel, Viceroy (866-326-9765; www.viceroysnowmass.com), opened at Snowmass late last month. With rustic-chic decor and 173 custom-designed suites of reclaimed timber, skiers can kick back on the pool terrace or sip martinis at its cocktail lounge. The condo-hotel is part of a $1 billion development at the Snowmass base village. 
 By comparison, the upgrades at Crested Butte (800-810-7669; www.skicb.com) are relatively minor. It doubled the size of the Ice Bar restaurant and opened a skating rink at the base area. 
 Likewise, Steamboat (970-879-6111; www.steamboat.com) may put a few bus drivers out of work after opening its Wildhorse Gondola in February. The lift whisks skiers from the Trailhead Lodge in Wildhorse Meadows to the slopes in just four minutes. Zippier still is a new Web site, www.flysteamboat.com, that makes it easy to visualize and book flights to the resort. 
 To kick off its 70th season, Winter Park Resort (970-726-5514; www.skiwinterpark.com) put the finishing touches on a new base village that combines modern conveniences (Starbucks; 200 new condos) and old-fashioned charms (soda foundation, gazebo, cabriolet). There's also a pond for ice-skating and a new play den, the Winter P'arkade, for kids who prefer playing video games to hitting the bunny trails.
 Breckenridge may become the Amsterdam of the Rockies, thanks to a new local ordinance that decriminalizes small amounts of marijuana. There are other perks, too. A new, couples-friendly spa called Soothe is adding a touch of romantic luxury to the yet-unfinished Grand Lodge on Peak 7 (866-664-9782; www.grandlodgeonpeak7.com). Next spring, One Ski Hill Place (888-652-9120; www.oneskihillplace.com), the centerpiece of the resort's Peak 8 renovations, is scheduled to make its debut, offering 88 ski-in, ski-out suites. 
 Telluridein southwest Colorado is one of the few mountains with new terrain. The resort carved out several chutes along the backside of its Gold Hill Ridge, a 1,600-foot vertical drop that is among North America's steepest. It is also welcoming new, high-end hotels: lumiere (970-369-0400; www.lumierehotels.com/telluride) is a 30-room boutique hotel perched above the village, and Capella Telluride (970-369-0880; www.capellatelluride.com) features 100 stylish suites.
 And last but never least, Vailis expected to get even bigger and more glamorous next year with the addition of a Four Seasons, a Ritz Carlton and a luxury complex called Solaris (970-479-6000; www.solarisvail.com), a 79-unit property with a skating rink, shopping plaza and bowling alley. Who said it was all downhill at ski resorts this winter? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ABOVE: Stonegate Resort at Big White Ski Resort, near Kelowna, British Columbia.
 RIGHT: Horizon Air serves the Mammoth Lakes Airport in California. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STONEGATE RESORT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (91%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); SKIING (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); MEDITATION (74%); WINTER SPORTS (73%); WEATHER (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); CONDOMINIUMS (68%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (66%); YOGA (61%); MARTIAL ARTS (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



380 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; POLITICS; Pg. 48A

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: San Jose's Stimulus Flow Feels More Like a Trickle

BYLINE: By DANIEL WEINTRAUB. 
Daniel Weintraub has reported on California politics and policy for more than 20 years.

 BODY:
Mayor Chuck Reed of San Jose has not been stimulated much by the federal economic recovery package -- and neither has his city.
 Once billed as the heart of Silicon Valley, San Jose has an unemployment rate of more than 13 percent. Santa Clara County over all has lost 50,000 jobs since August 2008. And while many economists think the region may have hit bottom, a recovery is going to take years.
 When Congress approved the $787 billion federal stimulus package this year, Mr. Reed hoped it would help hard-pressed cities like his. But so far he has been underwhelmed. 
 In Washington last month, Mr. Reed delivered his message to White House economists and an audience at the Brookings Institution: the design and implementation of the stimulus package could not have been worse for Silicon Valley. The money it doles out in the short run has arrived in a trickle, too slow to do much. And for the long run, it does little to help generate permanent jobs.
 ''We have only received and spent six or seven million dollars,'' Mr. Reed said in an interview last week. ''You can't expect a very big impact out of that.'' 
 Nationally, the number of jobs created by the stimulus money has been the subject of considerable controversy. But there should not be much doubt in San Jose. The number is so small that it is barely worth arguing over, and city audits show what kind of jobs they have been.
 Officially, the audits say, 250 full-time equivalent jobs have been created. But 240 of those positions reflect 900 part-time summer jobs that were created for area youths. Since those were summer jobs and winter is nearly here, the jobs are already gone. The other 10 full-time equivalent jobs were part of an airport project to improve the screening of checked baggage. The city has spent $3.3 million of its own money on that project and has yet to see a dime of the promised reimbursement.
 Mr. Reed said he did not mean to play down the value of summer jobs for teenagers, who can learn basic job skills. ''It's not that it's bad,'' he said. ''But that is not how you create long-term economic growth that is going to help the economy.''
 Even if all $300 million of the stimulus money promised to Silicon Valley eventually arrives, it will amount to just one-tenth of one percent of the region's $300 billion annual economic output, one of Mr. Reed's advisers pointed out. It will hardly be noticed.
 What would Mr. Reed have done if he were in charge? He is enamored with the potential of an obscure Department of Energy program that offers loan guarantees to companies producing renewable energy products. He said that 11 San Jose businesses were on the application list already and that he would like to see the review of those applications accelerated.
 ''The capital markets have not been helpful to our solar companies since the crash last year,'' Mr. Reed said. ''That's why the loan guarantees are so important in getting them access to capital.''
 One local company, NanoSolar, has a factory in San Jose where it manufactures solar cells that it says are the least expensive of their kind. Mr. Reed said the business already had orders that would keep the factory running at capacity for the next four years. The company's founders would not discuss their expansion plans, but Mr. Reed said he had been told the company would build another factory in San Jose if it could get a loan guarantee.
 Obama administration officials have said they share Mr. Reed's desire to see jobs in the renewable energy industry at the heart of the stimulus effort. But they also say the country needs short-term measures to help the economy and provide immediate relief to the jobless. 
 Last month, the administration named a venture capitalist to run the Energy Department's loan guarantee program, giving new hope to renewable energy advocates who have complained about the slow pace of the program's approvals. And there are signs that the next round of federal economic aid will focus more on ''green jobs.'' 
 ''I'm cautiously optimistic,'' Mr. Reed said.
 Given the record so far, his caution might be more in order than his optimism. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Chuck Reed (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); SEASONAL WORKERS (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ADOLESCENTS (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); AUDITS (64%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (62%); AVIATION SECURITY (62%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (60%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (60%); APPROVALS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (96%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



381 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Our Decade of Deluded Thinking

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Our Decade of Deluded Thinking
 Today The Times Magazine looks at ideas that made an impact this year. But in The New Statesman, John Gray looks at influential ideas that faltered across the decade now ending -- from neoconservatism to liberal interventionism to the neoliberal ''Washington consensus'' about debt-fueled free markets. And in them he finds a common denominator.
It is not often that large-scale crises are due to intellectual error, but a single erroneous belief runs through all of the successive delusions of the past decade. With few exceptions, both left and right seem to think that history is a directional process whose end point -- after many unfortunate detours -- will be the worldwide duplication of people very like themselves. At the end of the decade, opinion formers in Britain, the United States and Continental Europe still imagine that the normal pattern of historical development leads eventually to an idealized version of Western society, just asFrancis Fukuyama forecast 20 years ago. 
 But whereas this confidence-boosting notion was still genuinely believed a decade ago, today it is a kind of comfort blanket against an unfamiliar world. The reality, which is that Western power is in retreat nearly everywhere, is insistently denied. Yet the rise of China means more than the emergence of a new great power. Its deeper import is that the ideologies of the past century -- neoliberalism just as much as Communism -- are obsolete. Belief systems in which the categories of Western religion are reproduced in the guise of pseudo-science, they are redundant in a world where the most rapidly advancing nation state has never been monotheist. Western societies are well worth defending, but they are not a model for all of humankind. In future they will be only one of several versions of tolerable modernity.
 The 'Great Satan' Myth
 In The New Republic, Abbas Milani challenges the ''Great Satan myth,'' which he says sustains Iran's mullahs and hamstrings American policy toward Iran. He argues that Iran's clerics played a much bigger role than the C.I.A. in the 1953 ouster of Prime Minister Mohammed Mossadegh.
 It was the clerical establishment's animosity towards Mossadegh that laid the groundwork for his ouster. A broad swath of clerics -- Islamists like Ayatollah Abolgasem Kashani, a mentor of the AyatollahRuhollah Khomeini -- had initially supported Mossadegh. But, by late 1952, the clerics turned against him after he bucked their demands. The Ayatollah Kashani unsuccessfully pressed Mossadegh for the right to appoint key ministers. Another top cleric called on the prime minister to purge the civil service of Bahais -- a bane of Shia clergy. The clergy's allegiance to Mossadegh weakened further as he allowed the Communist Tudeh Party to gain ever more power, despite his own personal abhorrence of Communism. Once Mossadegh squandered the allegiance of the clergy, the inevitability of his fate became increasingly clear. (He had also alienated the middle class, increasingly weary of ideological warfare; and the army had pleaded for his ouster.)
 None of this is to defend America's role in the coup. But it was hardly the only or even the decisive factor in his fall. Indeed, in the most obvious instance of its meddling in Iranian history, the United States actually meddled on the side of the very religious establishment that now complains so bitterly about the Great Satan.
 Learning from Birds
 Birds in flight expend less energy in formation, The Economist notes, and now a Stanford University team has applied the V principle to aircraft.
 They modeled what would happen if three passenger jets departing from Los Angeles, San Francisco and Las Vegas were to rendezvous over Utah, assume an inverted V-formation, occasionally swap places so all could have a turn in the most favorable positions, and proceed to London. They found that the aircraft consumed as much as 15 percent less fuel (with a concomitant reduction in carbon-dioxide output). Nitrogen-oxide emissions during the cruising portions of the flight fell by around a quarter.
 About That Sweater You Got for Christmas
 In The Boston Globe, Joel Waldfogel presents the economic argument for never gifting again.
 Is holiday spending even good for the economy? The surprising answer is somewhere between maybe and not really. The problem is that gift giving is a very sloppy method for matching stuff with people. As an economist, I look at the estimated $65 billion in holiday spending coming this year, and I see an orgy of value destruction.
 To understand this, consider that every transaction in the economy has two parties, a seller and a buyer. Sellers benefit from a transaction by getting a price that covers their costs and delivers some surplus in the form of profit. Similarly, the sellers' employees and suppliers get some surplus that brings them to work chipper. In normal -- nongift -- transactions, buyers also get some surplus. They see an item for, say, $50 and only buy it if it's worth at least $50 to them. This surplus is a big deal: When your child is crying with an ear infection, you'd gladly pay hundreds or perhaps even thousands of dollars for a cure. Antibiotics, available for a few dollars, provide enormous surplus for buyers.
 Compare this to what happens when you give a gift: When you spend $50 on me, you're operating at significant disadvantage. You don't know what I like. I might not have been willing to pay anything for the item you purchase for me with $50. While $50 in spending normally produces at least $50 worth of satisfaction, there's no guarantee that $50 in gift spending will produce nearly as much satisfaction for the recipient. And if you buy me something worth nothing to me, you have destroyed at least $50 worth of value. You may as well have lit that sweater on fire. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mohammed Mossadegh after losing power. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (85%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2010



382 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 48A

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Budget Woes Fray County's Public Health System

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

 BODY:
As a rule, Sam Garcia, 51, is so busy struggling to get by that he does not have much time to follow the maneuverings of Illinois's elected officials. Nearly a year ago, Mr. Garcia lost his job at a suburban sheet metal plant, his health insurance and a piece of his pride all on the same day. 
 But Todd H. Stroger, the president of the Cook County Board, got Mr. Garcia's attention last week when he warned about the consequences of the board's vote to roll back the county's part of the sales tax to 1.25 percent from 1.75 percent on July 1. Mr. Stroger said the board's action created a $75 million hole in the county health care budget, necessitating deep service cuts, hundreds of layoffs and posing a risk that county hospital patients might ''needlessly die.''
''It scared me,'' Mr. Garcia said on a recent Saturday night while he waited in the emergency room at John H. Stroger Hospital. The hospital is named after Todd Stroger's father, who was county board president for 12 years, from 1994 to 2006, until he had a stroke. ''Where else am I going to go when I get sick?'' 
 A bright red rash ran from Mr. Garcia's wrist to his elbow. ''I break out when I'm under a lot of stress,'' he said, rubbing his arm. ''At least, I hope that's what this is.'' 
 He stood up, draped his coat over his left shoulder like a shield and warily approached the nurse's station. ''I've been waiting 10 hours,'' he said to the nurse. 
 ''Ten hours, that's not too bad,'' she replied, flashing a friendly smile. ''The longest I've seen is 30 hours.'' 
 Mr. Garcia dropped his head and returned to his seat in the waiting area with about two dozen other people. 
 ''Next time,'' the nurse suggested as he walked away, ''pack a lunch.'' 
 The $887 million budget for Cook County's health care system is already set for 2010. The big question -- and concern -- is 2011. It is too early to tell if the doomsday predictions of Mr. Stroger are political gamesmanship or sober analysis, sincere or show. 
 Whether his forecast is valid, it is clear that the public health safety net is becoming increasingly tattered, not just in Cook County but also across the country. Public hospitals from New York to Los Angeles are being flooded with the uninsured and the underinsured as double-digit unemployment persists.
 At Stroger -- the heart of Cook County's three-hospital and 16-clinic public health system -- about 10,000 people visit the emergency room each month. 
 As the health care debate continues, one thing is certain: Mr. Stroger has staked his political future on being right. He pushed through last year's sales tax increase of 1 percent knowing he risked the ire of consumers and merchants. The board's rollback brought the tax rate down to 9.75 percent from 10.25 percent, the highest in the nation. 
 Mr. Stroger had beaten back three previous efforts to lower the rate before his defeat last week. Using Stroger Hospital as Exhibit A, he argued that the poor and the working class would suffer even more if budget cuts forced a sharp reduction in services and more layoffs. 
 Mr. Stroger's critics do not buy his claims. 
 ''It's all make-believe,'' said Larry Suffredin, a Cook County commissioner from Evanston. ''The president is exaggerating the numbers. He's just trying to scare people.'' 
 Margie Schaps, executive director of the Health and Medicine Research Policy Group, a public health advocacy group, may not be scared, but she is nervous. 
 ''A loss of $75 million will have a severe impact,'' Ms. Schaps said. ''We have a perfect storm brewing: increasing numbers of people who are uninsured and a system under severe stress. We can't devastate the public system and not expect an impact on the public's health.'' 
 Many patients at Stroger are poor and uninsured, while others are like Patricia Tellez, 45, a stylishly dressed suburban real-estate agent trying desperately to keep her family from falling out of the middle class.
 Mrs. Tellez, 45, said she had sold just one house in 2009. She and her husband have been without private health insurance for three years. Though they live two blocks from Hinsdale Hospital, when Mr. Tellez complained of a searing headache the couple drove more than 20 miles downtown to Stroger Hospital. 
 ''We heard that Stroger was cheap and had a payment plan,'' Mrs. Tellez said. ''If we went to a private hospital, maybe they would take you faster, but just to go to the E.R. might cost thousands of dollars.'' 
 In 2009, the county hospital system cut 900 positions. Another 450 will be eliminated in 2010. Most of these positions were already vacant, but 350 people still lost their jobs. 
 ''There isn't any fat,'' said William Foley, who in the spring took over as chief executive of the Cook County Health and Hospitals System, which oversees the system's day-to-day operations.
 A round of cuts in 2007 was even deeper; a half-dozen clinics were closed, resulting in a 20 percent decrease in clinic visits. 
 The county hospital system has long been abused and misused by patronage-seeking politicians, said Dr. Quentin Young, president of Physicians for a National Health Program, a single-payer advocacy group, and a former chairman of the hospital.
 ''It's been a pigsty for jobs and contracts for years,'' Dr. Young said. 
 In recent months, the sprawling system of 7,000 employees seemed to be slowly turning a corner. Thanks to millions of dollars in federal stimulus money, better billing procedures and other efficiencies instituted by the new management team, the system reduced its share of county money by $74 million, from $382 million in 2009 to $308 million in 2010. 
 ''But all of that is in jeopardy if we have to take another $75 million hit,'' Mr. Foley said. 
 Mr. Suffredin, a county commissioner, said he was optimistic that the system's progress would continue. 
 ''We have 12 months to figure out a way to come up with the revenue,'' he said. 
 Jerry Butler, the lone county commissioner on the public health care system's board, is less hopeful. 
 ''We can't fix the system without the money,'' said Mr. Butler, who voted with Mr. Stroger to preserve the tax increase. ''How many more bodies do they expect us to cut before we cut to the marrow?'' 
 The lack of bodies is one reason for Mr. Garcia's long wait at the emergency room, which he shared with Emilio Santos, 45, his new ''E.R. buddy.'' 
 Mr. Santos had lost his shipping-room job of 20 years and his health insurance. When a chronically aching leg began turning blue, he headed to Stroger for the first time. 
 ''I always had insurance before,'' he said. ''Lord forbid the politicians fall into our category someday -- then they'll wish they put that penny back. Not one, but two.'' 
 A nurse, holding a clipboard, appeared at the front of the waiting room. 
 ''Garcia,'' she called in a loud voice. 
 ''That's me,'' Mr. Garcia said, jumping up. He had been waiting nearly 11 hours. 
 He turned to Mr. Santos, whose wait was into its fourth hour and said, ''Good luck.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The emergency room at Stroger Hospital, the heart of Cook County's public health system, sees about 10,000 people each month.
 Patients waited at the eye clinic at Stroger, which is facing additional cuts because of a rollback of the county sales tax. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HOSPITALS (88%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); NURSES & NURSING (74%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (73%); STROKES (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SALES TAX (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



383 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: A Woman Among Men

 BODY:
WOMEN had limited opportunities when I was growing up, but I didn't realize it. My parents made no distinction in their expectations for my brother, my sister and me. 
 I was a math major at New York University and well on my way to a Ph.D. in economics and statistics when a fellow student and I decided to get married. I had met my future husband in Accounting 101 in my undergraduate program. He was about a year behind me in school because of his army service, so I needed a job nearby while he finished school.
 I interviewed at what was then General Foods in White Plains and was offered a position as a statistical specialist in the executive compensation division. We analyzed the relationship between executive responsibilities, pay and performance. We also compared executive compensation with that of competitive firms. 
 At one point my group brought the resulting issues to the board, which thanked us profusely and then hired a consulting firm to work on the problem. That company used my data and recommendations in its report. I was delighted, but I realized that to really have my work recognized and to have an impact on issues in any company, my best opportunity was as a consultant. It would be easier if I were coming from the outside. I left after two years to join a small consulting firm.
 I established a free-standing practice in executive compensation at that company and then left in 1989 with my senior colleague Steven Hall to start Pearl Meyer & Partners. We sold our firm in 2000 to a company that wanted to offer a broader array of services. Steve and I wanted to continue focusing solely on executive compensation, so we started a new company to do just that.
 Steve wanted to give the new company a generic name, but I told him ''No way.'' The best companies in our business carry people's names. I had to leave my name, which had become well known in the business, behind at our first company.
 For years I was the only woman in board rooms, which was difficult. I kept wishing that I were a middle-aged man in a gray flannel suit. On the other hand, it gave me a unique opportunity because I stood out from the crowd. Once, when I signed up for an industry conference at a university, I called beforehand to make sure I wasn't the only woman attending. They assured me I wasn't, but when I arrived, all the dorm rooms available for the conference had been assigned to the male attendees. They sent me to stay at a local inn.
 As independent consultants, our company reports to the compensation committees of corporate boards. Fall is one of the busiest times of the year in our business because companies are assessing executive performance, which will determine year-end bonuses, and are starting their planning cycle for the following year. 
 We also assist boards in their negotiations when recruiting senior executives. Often they ''fall in love'' with one person who may be happy in his or her current job and thus has high requirements to move. We develop the best offer the company can afford, but when there's only one person being considered, we're negotiating from a position of weakness. We advise boards not to stop their search with one acceptable candidate.
 When I started in consulting, all my clients and contacts were men. Now a good third are women in senior officer positions in corporations, and I feel a strong sense of collegiality. 
 For several years I felt limited in the amount of progress I was making with boards. I was young. I believed that doing a good job meant being right. I was creative, inventive and technically perfect. But developing a detailed analysis and recommendations wasn't enough. It dawned on me that this part of the job wasn't the end of the journey; it was the beginning. After finding the answer, you need to sell the benefit. 
 PEARL MEYER
 Senior managing director, Steven Hall & Partners
 HOMETOWN Manhattan
 HOBBY Golf
 FAVORITE MOVIE ''Something's Gotta Give'' (2003) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (88%); STUDENT HOUSING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); TRADE SHOWS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2009



384 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: THE 10 BEST BOOKS OF 2009

 BODY:
Fiction
 BOTH WAYS IS THE ONLY WAY I WANT IT
 By Maile Meloy. Riverhead Books, $25.95.
 In an exceptionally strong year for short fiction, Meloy's concise yet fine-grained narratives, whether set in Montana, an East Coast boarding school or a 1970s nuclear power plant, shout out with quiet restraint and calm precision. Her flawed characters -- ranch hands in love, fathers and daughters -- rarely act in their own best interests and often betray those closest to them.
 CHRONIC CITY 
 By Jonathan Lethem. Doubleday, $27.95.
 Lethem's eighth novel unfolds in an alternative-reality Manhattan. The crowded canvas includes a wantonly destructive escaped tiger (or is it a subway excavator?) prowling the streets, a cruel gray fog engulfing Wall Street, a ''war free'' edition of The New York Times, a character stranded on the dying International Space Station, strange and valuable vaselike objects called chaldrons, colossal cheeseburgers and some extremely potent marijuana. 
 A GATE AT THE STAIRS
 By Lorrie Moore. Alfred A. Knopf, $25.95.
 Moore's captivating novel, her first in more than a decade, is set in 2001 and narrated by a Wisconsin college student who hungers for worldly experience and finds it when she takes a job baby-sitting for a bohemian couple who are trying to adopt a mixed-race child. Meanwhile, she drifts into a love affair with an enigmatic classmate and feels the pressing claims of her own family, above all her affectless younger brother, who enlists in the military after 9/11. 
 HALF BROKE HORSES
 A True-Life Novel.
 By Jeannette Walls. Scribner, $26.
 In her luminous memoir, ''The Glass Castle,'' Walls told of being raised by eccentric and unfit parents. Now, in a novel based on family lore, she has adopted the voice of her maternal grandmother, Lily Casey Smith -- mustang breaker, schoolteacher, ranch wife, bootlegger, poker player, racehorse rider and bush pilot. The result reanimates a chapter of America's frontier past.
 A SHORT HISTORY OF WOMEN
 By Kate Walbert. Scribner, $24.
 The 15 lean, concentrated chapters in this exquisitely written novel alternate among the lives of a British suffragist and a handful of her Anglo-American descendants. The theme is feminism, but Walbert is keenly alert to male preoccupations and the impressions they leave on the lives of her female cast. Walbert's prose, cool and intelligent, captures the many ways we silence and are silenced, the ways we see and hear as we struggle to grasp hold of meaning.
 Nonfiction
 THE AGE OF WONDER
 How the Romantic Generation Discovered the Beauty and Terror of Science.
 By Richard Holmes. Pantheon Books, $40.
 Holmes harnesses the twin energies of scientific curiosity and poetic invention in this superb intellectual history, which recreates a glorious period, some 200 years ago, when figures like William Herschel, Humphry Davy and Joseph Banks brought ''a new imaginative intensity and excitement to scientific work,'' and literary giants like Coleridge and Keats responded giddily to these breakthroughs, finding in them an empirical basis for their own faith in human betterment.
 THE GOOD SOLDIERS
 By David Finkel. Sarah Crichton Books/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.
 Finkel, a Pulitzer Prize-winning writer and editor at The Washington Post, gives full voice to his subjects, infantry soldiers from Fort Riley, Kan. (average age 19), posted in the lethal reaches of Baghdad at the height of the ''surge.'' Finkel's own perspective emerges through spare descriptions -- of a roadside bombing or the tortured memories of a single soldier -- that capture the harrowing realities of war.
 LIT
 A Memoir.
 By Mary Karr. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers, $25.99.
 This sequel to ''The Liars' Club'' and ''Cherry'' is also a master class on the art of the memoir. Mordantly funny, free of both self-pity and sentimentality, Karr describes her attempts to untether herself from her troubled family in rural Texas, her development as a poet and writer, and her struggles to navigate marriage and young motherhood even as she descends into alcoholism.
 LORDS OF FINANCE
 The Bankers Who Broke the World.
 By Liaquat Ahamed. The Penguin Press, $32.95.
 The parallels with our own moment are impossible to miss in Ahamed's narrative about four members of ''the most exclusive club in the world,'' central bankers who dominated global finance in the post-World War I era. Ahamed, a longtime investment manager, evokes in glittering detail a volatile time of financial bubbles followed by busts, all of it guided by players wedded to economic orthodoxy.
 RAYMOND CARVER
 A Writer's Life.
 By Carol Sklenicka. Scribner, $35.
 Ten years in the making, this prodigiously researched and meticulous biography sympathetically and adroitly integrates its subject's work with the turbulent life -- marred by alcoholism, financial turmoil and family discord -- that brought it into being. Sklenicka shrewdly deconstructs Carver's fraught relationship with Gordon Lish, the editor who played an outsize role in the creation of Carver's stories, the most influential of a generation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (ILLUSTRATIONS BY JI LEE
 PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ROOT) (pg.BR1 and 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HORSES (86%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (72%); POWER PLANTS (72%); HORSE RACING (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (57%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (57%); MAMMALS (54%); SPACE STATIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



385 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: A Lesson in Frugality, From the Tenements

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
ON the weekend after Thanksgiving, the traditional start of the holiday shopping season, I skipped the department stores and headed instead to the Lower East Side Tenement Museum on Orchard Street in Manhattan. Hundreds of people had the same idea. Every tour was booked. 
 We each paid $20 to shuffle up the dim, narrow and creaky stairwell of a restored tenement where we learned about families who once lived on wages of less than a dollar a day. In these dark, crowded and airless rooms, one or two steps beyond Ellis Island, the poor people who lived here somehow managed to save money and accumulate capital. They had no choice but to practice frugality. 
 When we re-emerged, in the daylight of the 21st century, it was to a radically different atmosphere: Retailers around the country were doing their best to encourage consumer spending -- hoping desperately that contemporary Americans had not entered a new era of frugality themselves. In fact, retail revenues have been clobbered by the financial crisis. With high unemployment and an uncertain future, people have been shopping cautiously -- suggesting that maybe, just maybe there is some foundation to all of the talk about a change in the consumer mind-set. 
 There are grounds for skepticism, though. Shoppers may be holding back until the good times return or the discounts get deep enough, whichever comes first. That's very different from the scrimp-and-save behavior ingrained in immigrants or, for that matter, the generation that grew up in the Great Depression. 
 The question might be put this way: Can middle-class American consumers save like immigrants of more than a century ago? Can they change their mind-sets and lifestyles in order to accumulate capital and work down debt? 
 Not easily, for many of us. It would be a challenge to overturn habits ingrained by doting parents, endless marketing pitches and the belief that the person with the most stuff wins. And it might seem to embrace a rather pessimistic outlook on life, one of deprivation and denial. You would have to scale back on spending until you save most of your income. Do you need all that space and all those things -- new cars, expensive watches or smartphones? A prepaid cellphone might have to do. 
 You could make an effort to live off cash, not credit cards. When you see green pieces of paper disappear, your spending may seem more real than it does when you swipe a card. And to really save money, you'd have to maximize income, not just cut down on spending. Some approaches, like working for cash -- a form of tax avoidance, to be polite, for those who don't have Bahamanian bank accounts -- are impossible for anyone on a payroll. But you could just work more. 
 If you are going all in on frugality, it really does call for a new mind-set. On scores of belt-tightening Web sites that have popped up since the recession began, you will see advice that, at best, amounts to half- measures. Use coupons at restaurants. Don't order as much food. That's fine as far as it goes. But if you are really being frugal, you would not go out to eat. 
 No, frugality would not be easy, not just because it requires the sacrifice of material goods, although that is plenty hard. Rather, the problem is that it seems to demand too much change in cherished beliefs about life. First, abandon the idea that we must live better than our parents did. That's a fine motivator when your parents live in a tenement on the Lower East Side with a shared privy in the backyard for 20 families and a saloon in the basement. But is it necessary for those who already have a home, a car and a standard of living that is the envy of most of the world? 
 The Pew Research Center found in April 2008 that nearly two-thirds of Americans said they had a higher standard of living than their parents did at their age. Most people expected their children to do better in life than they had. 
 This survey on economic attitudes, published before the world's financial troubles were apparent to most people, also found what it called a ''possessions perception gap.'' We tend to overestimate what other families have. For instance, 62 percent of the respondents said they believed that most families had a high-definition TV, although just 42 percent said their own family had one. 
 A PEW survey in April, during the economic turmoil, suggested that it might be possible for upwardly mobile Americans to defer gratification, another necessary mind-set change. It found that over the previous three years, the percentage of Americans thinking, for instance, that a microwave oven was a necessity dropped to 47 percent from 68 percent. That was true of air-conditioning (54 percent, down 16 percentage points), clothes dryers (66 percent, down 17 points) and cable TV (23 percent, down 10 points). More people, however, said they could not go without a cellphone.
 No air conditioning? Hang the wash on the fire escape? It sounds a bit like a return to the dreary tenement.The funny thing is, though, some economists who study spending through consumers' life cycles tell us frugality may actually be the practice of an optimist. If you expect good things in the future, you're inclined to save money for that event. 
 If you are a pessimist, you might as well spend everything now. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An 1869 tenement home, where a family of five lived. If such households saved money, why don't more modern Americans? (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); THANKSGIVING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); SMARTPHONES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



386 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 48A

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Foreclosure Frenzy Dismays Aspiring Homeowners

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH

 BODY:
It was early last year when Joby Morris, a 33-year-old floral designer in Pacifica, heard about the housing market's crash. Soon she and her fiance began dreaming of finally buying a home in the East Bay. But for 18 months, Ms. Morris watched helplessly as time and again, an investor with an all-cash offer and no intention of moving into the property swooped in and snapped up a house she was bidding on. 
 Last year, she entered a bidding war for a home at 2208 41st Avenue in Oakland. It was listed at $149,000; she bid until the price topped $180,000, her real estate agent said. The winning bid was $265,000.
Last month, after the same thing happened a sixth time, Ms. Morris gave up. 
 ''The idea of ownership was a falsehood,'' said Ms. Morris, who was planning to finance the purchase with a loan guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration. ''It's not going to happen.''
 Ms. Morris and her fiance, Justin Womack, with a combined income of more than $100,000, are among hundreds of qualified, aspiring homeowners in the Bay Area baffled and frustrated by the difficulties they face, local Realtors say. As Ms. Morris's Oakland-based real estate agent, Charles Wright, said, ''Everyday homeowner occupants are having a serious problem finding anything because there's such a frenzy out there.'' 
 ''It's happening in Oakland, the East Bay, Alameda County,'' Mr. Wright added. At least four of his clients recently bid on homes, only to be outbid by investors.
 There are, of course, winners as well as losers in the phenomenon. For existing homeowners, rising prices are not something to mourn. But it is frustrating for someone like Ms. Morris, who is qualified to buy most foreclosed homes at the offering prices. 
 The phenomenon is familiar to anyone who has watched a market swoon: vulture investing. Private investors have pooled cash and are buying foreclosed homes by the dozens in the Bay Area. 
 Despite the negative association with carrion-eating birds, some economists argue that opportunistic investing in depressed markets helps the economy by setting a floor price for devalued assets. 
 ''What would it look like if you didn't have these investors?'' asked James A. Angel, a business professor at Georgetown University. ''The banks would be stuck holding properties. The losses to the banking system would be so much more if you didn't have vultures.'' 
 Sometimes, Mr. Angel added, ''investors are helping reduce losses in the banking sector, and that means less stress on the taxpayer to support it.''
 In the process, Joby Morris and others like her are priced out of a market they otherwise could have afforded. 
 Barry Zigas, director of housing policy for Consumer Federation of America, said that as a consequence of the investment flurry, ''we've seen over and over again a common outcome is investors acquire these properties, put minimal repairs in them and rent them out.''
 ''There's been a longstanding history of advocacy to try to get there to be a priority to sell to owner occupants,'' Mr. Zigas said, ''but it's a really tough policy to get enacted when financial institutions in our society are faced with trying to recover as much money as they can and move on.''
 In Washington, lawmakers like Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, are trying to give potential buyers more buying power by getting the Federal Housing Administration to guarantee larger loans with lower down payments in expensive markets like the Bay Area. 
 But a buyer with financing of any sort is still at a disadvantage when competing with an all-cash offer. 
 To the same end, Fannie Mae, the government-created agency that buys pools of home loans, announced three weeks ago that when it put a foreclosed property on the market, it would consider offers only from ''owner occupants and buyers using public funds'' for the first 15 days. Offers from investors will be considered only afterward. 
 Jon Freeman, the chief executive of Stonecrest Financial, an investment firm based in San Jose, would not want to wait. He keeps a laser focus on getting foreclosed properties into the company's asset portfolio. 
 ''There are huge opportunities out there for those who have cash and guts and foresight,'' Mr. Freeman said.
 Using the industry term for properties that banks acquire through foreclosures, he said, ''Bulk R.E.O.'s -- that's the new buzzword right now.'' 
 Last year, Mr. Freeman said, Bank of America sold him a package of 150 foreclosed homes scattered in low-income areas. He ticked off a few neighborhoods: ''A lot in Richmond, Antioch, Oakland, some in San Jose.'' 
 In the recorder-clerk's office in Martinez, the Contra Costa County seat, Stonecrest Financial's funds are listed as buyers alongside smaller investors, like Mancheno Enterprises of Orinda. 
 As of November, there were about 7,000 foreclosed properties of record -- and an unknown additional amount in undisclosed bank inventories, according to Matthew Anderson, a partner at Foresight Analytics. Stonecrest Financial, with an estimated $25 million in real estate assets at any given time, is one of the country's midsized players, which incessantly prod banks for new deals valued between $10 million and $20 million -- be it a package of 50 homes in the East Bay or 500 scattered throughout the Rust Belt.
 In markets like the Bay Area, the supply of foreclosed homes both for investors like Mr. Freeman and for ordinary buyers like Ms. Morris has been artificially suppressed by the banks that own them. In the months following the financial crisis, as federal bailout money relieved the urgent need for banks to liquidate their assets, lenders and government entities like Fannie Mae and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation curtailed sales to raise prices and avoid recording losses on the properties.
 Kerry Vandell, director of the Center for Real Estate at the University of California, Irvine, Paul Merage School of Business, said these investors often turned the homes into rental units for short-term gains before looking to sell them at a handsome profit within three to five years. These proliferating operations, big and small, and a low supply of available homes -- a counterintuitive consequence of the federal bailout of some banks -- combine to put pressure on many first-time home buyers.
 With homes falling into the portfolios of investors instead of the hands of potential occupants, Professor Vandell said, communities are subtly scarred. 
 ''I get calls from concerned communities about this all the time,'' he said. ''You're going to have speculators there who will tend to walk away from the property or milk the property and not put any investment capital into it.''
 And, Professor Vandell added, ''the communities are afraid they'll rent to households of considerably lower income.'' 
 Some investors, like Joshua Host, chief executive of Stone Equity Group, which is based in Southern California, argued that their work had ''a social component.'' 
 When he makes package deals, paying $2 million to $5 million for 50 to 300 homes, Mr. Host said, ''it's not just a matter of buying these packages of foreclosures without improving them -- we're not just playing a paper game.''
 If buyers often unwittingly play the role of the demure ingenue in the market, their competitors thrive in a fast-talking world of high-stakes deal making and snap judgments made at local auctions in places like Martinez. The newer East Bay suburbs in Contra Costa and Solano Counties sustained extensive foreclosures. On Friday, despite rain, investors gathered on the steps of the county courthouse in Martinez at 10 a.m. to bid.
 The tight supply has created a secondary industry of middlemen. Brokers interviewed last week said some of these promised access to property packages -- whether or not they had such access.
 You wouldn't believe the number of guys running around telling me, 'My cousin or my cousin's cousin knows someone at the F.D.I.C.,' '' said Leonard McKines of J.P.L. Investments, a group based in Fremont that is raising $100 million to buy bulk foreclosures. ''This is the wild, wild West.''
 Too wild for Ms. Morris and Mr. Womack. 
 ''We've been renting for 13 years, and we're getting married next month,'' she said last week. ''I'm from Connecticut, Justin's from Texas. But this is where we want to make our home. The next logical step having been paying for so long would've been to own something. It's not going to happen.''It's all been a waste of time and a waste of money.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Galloway, left, was among bidders on foreclosed homes during an auction at the Contra Costa County Courthouse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA MORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



387 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Drunken Ultimatums

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER SHEA

 BODY:
The so-called ultimatum game contains a world of psychological and economic mysteries. In a laboratory setting, one person is given an allotment of money (say, $100) and instructed to offer a second person a portion. If the second player says yes to the offer, both keep the cash. If the second player says no, both walk away with nothing. 
 The rational move in any single game is for the second person to take whatever is offered. (It's more than he came in with.) But in fact, most people reject offers of less than 30 percent of the total, punishing offers they perceive as unfair. Why?
 The academic debate boils down to two competing explanations. On one hand, players might be strategically suppressing their self-interest, turning down cash now in the hope that if there are future games, the ''proposer'' will make better offers. On the other hand, players might simply be lashing out in anger.
 The researchers Carey Morewedge and Tamar Krishnamurti, of Carnegie Mellon University, and Dan Ariely, of Duke, recently tested the competing explanations -- by exploring how drunken people played the game. As described in a working paper now under peer review, Morewedge and Krishnamurti took a ''data truck'' to a strip of bars on the South Side of Pittsburgh (where participants were ''often at a level of intoxication that is greater than is ethical to induce'') and also did controlled testing, in labs, of people randomly selected to get drunk.
 The scholars were interested in drunkenness because intoxication, as other social-science experiments have shown, doesn't fuzz up judgment so much as cause the drinker to overly focus on the most prominent cue in his environment. If the long-term-strategy hypothesis were true, drunken players would be more inclined to accept any amount of cash. (Money on the table generates more-visceral responses than long-term goals do.) If the anger/revenge theory were true, however, drunken players would become less likely to accept low offers: raw anger would trump money-lust.
 In both setups, drunken players were less likely than their sober peers to accept offers of less than 50 percent of the total. The finding suggests, the authors said, that the principal impulse driving subjects was a wish for revenge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); ETHICS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (55%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



388 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Myth of the Deficient Older Employee, The

BYLINE: By LIA MILLER

 BODY:
Although workers who were 45 and older had lower unemployment rates in 2008 than younger workers, they stayed unemployed for longer periods, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. This is not surprising. Employers are often reluctant to hire older workers, not only because they have higher health care costs and sometimes command higher salaries but 
 also because of their reputational stigma. Older workers are commonly thought of as being
 less productive and less willing to learn than younger workers, as 
 well as overly cautious. But this year economists presented a more nuanced picture than the above stereotypes suggest.
 In The American Economic Review in June, Gary Charness, an economics professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and Marie Claire Villeval, a colleague from the University of Lyon, published the results of a study in which they pitted ''seniors'' (those over 50) against ''juniors'' (those under 30) in three different decision-making tasks. These were formulated to test risk taking, competitiveness and cooperation.
 As it turns out, the ''seniors'' more than hold their own. In risk-taking, which the researchers assessed via an investing game, the seniors invested slightly more than the juniors. The seniors were also more cooperative, contributing more to their group during the cooperation test. The seniors outperformed the juniors on one competitive word game -- and were only ''very slightly less'' competitive overall, Charness says. ''Older workers,'' he stresses, ''don't suffer from the deficiencies that a lot of people think they do.'' 
 Another welcome finding of the study came during the cooperation portion, when Charness and Villeval found that groups with a mix of ages outperformed homogeneous groups. For an optimum work force, Charness says, it is best to have a range of ages in the office. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE MYTH OF THE DEFICIENT OLDER EMPLOYEE: Seniors (50 and over) performed better than juniors (30 and under) in several tests, including a competitive word game.: NONCOMPETITIVE GAME
 COMPETITIVE GAME (CHART BY LAMOSCA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLDER WORKERS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009



389 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Resomation

BYLINE: By RUTH DAVIS KONIGSBERG

 BODY:
The cremation rate has been on a brisk rise in the United States, in part because cremation is cheaper than burial and saves land. But powering a crematorium requires an enormous amount of gas and also sends carbon dioxide and other pollutants skyward. Enter resomation, an alternative to cremation for the eco-conscious cadaver. 
 Resomation is a process that liquefies rather than burns body tissues. It uses about a sixth of the energy of cremation and has a much smaller carbon footprint, according to Sandy Sullivan, the managing director of Resomation, a company in Scotland that has designed a resomation machine. The Mayo Clinic in Minnesota has been using a similar system since 2006 to dispose of donated bodies, but this year the first commercial Resomator is being installed at a funeral home in Florida, one of three states where the process is legal. 
 Resomation (a neologism meant to suggest rebirth) was first proposed for use in Europe as a method of disposing of cows infected by bovine spongiform encephalopathy. The corpse is placed in a pressurized chamber. The vessel is then filled with water and potassium hydroxide, creating a highly alkaline solution, and heated to 330 degrees. After about three hours, all that's left are a soft, white calcium phosphate from bone and teeth and a light brown primordial soup of amino acids and peptides. Bodies buried underground decompose in the same way, albeit over many years and aided by microorganisms.
 Unlike cremation, resomation doesn't vaporize the toxic mercury of dental fillings and doesn't char joint implants, leaving them clean, shiny and potentially recyclable. The bone and tooth material can be ground into a fine ash, as with traditional cremains. The brown liquid, because it's sterile, can go down the drain. ''There's no genetic material in it at all; it's just basic organic materials,'' Sullivan assures. ''You might get some people who say they want the fluid as well, but at the end of the day, it's best to send it to the water treatment plant so it ends up back on the land, as nature intended it to.'' 
 Keeping your Social Security number (S.S.N.) secure is key to preventing identity theft and fraud. But there have always been bugs in the system. People have known for decades about the conventions that the Social Security Administration uses when issuing S.S.N.'s, and not long ago, scientists figured out how to use this information to determine from a given S.S.N. the birth date of the applicant and the state in which the number was issued. Thankfully, though, the reverse was not true: an unknown S.S.N. could not be determined from that data.
 Until now. This year, Alessandro Acquisti, an economist, and Ralph Gross, a computer scientist, both at Carnegie Mellon, announced in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences that they had figured out how to predict a person's S.S.N. Their work was made possible, paradoxically, by steps the government took to prevent identity theft and fraud. Years ago, for instance, the administration decided to make public its Death Master File -- the list of every S.S.N. taken out of circulation, together with the name, birth date and state in which the deceased originally applied for a number. The release of the file was supposed to make it harder for criminals to hijack dead people's S.S.N.'s, since those numbers could be easily cross-checked. But it provided Acquisti and Gross with a data set that they could analyze for patterns in how the numbers are assigned.
 In addition, starting in 1989 the government encouraged parents to register children with S.S.N.'s at birth -- instead of registering them anytime between birth and when they started a job. The intention, in part, was to prevent the theft of numbers that hadn't yet been claimed. One consequence, however, is that S.S.N.'s issued since then are even less randomly assigned than before -- and thus easier to crack.
 Given a state and birth date, Acquisti and Gross were able to predict correctly all nine digits in an S.S.N. in 1,000 attempts or fewer, 8.5 percent of the time, which renders a sizable percentage of S.S.N.'s about as easy to crack as a three-number PIN. From there, it is possible to use publicly available tools like online instant credit-card approval sites to try combinations until the right number is confirmed. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: SANDY SULLIVAN (DRAWING BY CATH RILEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREMATION (91%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (73%); BOVINE SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHY (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (72%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (70%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (69%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); IDENTITY SECURITY (65%); IDENTITY THEFT (65%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (60%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (60%); CRIME PREVENTION (60%); WATER QUALITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MAYO CLINIC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); SCOTLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009



390 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Rainfall Theory of Development, The

BYLINE: By AARON RETICA

 BODY:
The amount of rain that fell during your first year of life has affected your education, your health and even how much money you can put your hands on -- at least if you are a woman who grew up in the countryside in postwar Indonesia. In 2000, for example, rural women between the ages 
 of 26 and 47 who were born in areas with 20 percent higher rainfall than normal the year after they were born were, on average, more than half a centimeter taller than their luckless (and drier) counterparts. These women also went to school for 0.22 grades longer and had more assets. That may not sound like a lot more education, but it means a year more of schooling for every five girls in those rain-enriched areas. And for every five girls in an area with 20 percent less rainfall than usual, a year of school was lost, compared with women who were born into a year of average precipitation. Just as notable, the Indonesian men who were surveyed showed no rainfall effect either way.
 Sharon Maccini and Dean Yang, a married pair of economists who teach at the University of Michigan, published their mash-up of local rainfall data with life outcomes in June in The American Economic Review. They point out that ''our finding of significant impacts for women and not for men is consistent with gender bias in the allocation of nutrition and other resources, particularly in times of unusual hardship.'' Maccini and Yang also demonstrate that rainfall shocks that occurred when children were in utero had no long-term effect on adult men or women in Indonesia, suggesting that the nutritional bias began only when the sex of the child was revealed after birth. Less rice in this critical period can lead to worse health, followed by less schooling and, finally, fewer assets.
 Economic growth and better irrigation have probably begun to diminish the rainfall effect in Indonesia, Yang says, but in other areas of the world like sub-Saharan Africa, where ''income levels are still very low and people's ability to nourish their kids is almost certainly affected by rainfall fluctuations,'' it is most likely still going strong. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: THE RAINFALL THEORY OF DEVELOPMENT: CHART BY LAMOSCA Dry times are hard times in poor countries, especially for girls.: YEARS OF SCHOOLING FOR GIRLS
 FEMALE HEIGHT (CM.)(SOURCE: SHARON MACCINI AND DEAN YANG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MEN (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) INDONESIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (78%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009



391 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
DAVID LETTERMAN
 I mean, honestly, you can't blame the Salahis for going where they're not invited. I mean, isn't that our foreign policy? 
 JIMMY FALLON
 Hey, the ''Today'' show was live from Afghanistan this morning. It went head-to-head with Afghanistan's No. 1 morning show, ''Good Morning and Death to America.''
 Congress was hard at work today trying to come up with a fair playoff system for college football. Congress was working on this. Meanwhile, the N.C.A.A. spent the afternoon kicking around ideas for how to win the war in Afghanistan.
 CONAN O'BRIEN
 President Obama. Did you hear about this? He spoke at a town hall last week and a student stood up and asked him if he would consider legalizing drugs to stimulate the economy. Unfortunately, the student's follow-up question was, ''Do you ever hear colors?''
 JAY LENO
 As you know, Santa Claus is working very hard with his elves to make sure every child gets at least one toy this Christmas, or as Glenn Beck calls that, ''socialism.'' 

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS (CARTOONS BY Mike Luckovich: Atlanta Journal-Constitution, Creators Syndicate
Jimmy Margulies: The Record (Hackensack, N.J.), King Features Syndicate
Dana Summers: The Orlando Sentinel, Tribune Media Services
 Tom Toles: The Washington Post, Universal Press Syndicate 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (75%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); DECRIMINALIZATION (70%); CHRISTMAS (65%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (74%); CONAN O'BRIEN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GLENN BECK (53%); JAY LENO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (74%) FLORIDA, USA (74%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



392 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: IN REVERSAL, U.S. TALKS TO RUSSIA ON WEB SECURITY

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF and ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
The United States has begun talks with Russia and a United Nations arms control committee about strengthening Internet security and limiting military use of cyberspace. 
 American and Russian officials have different interpretations of the talks so far, but the mere fact that the United States is participating represents a significant policy shift after years of rejecting Russia's overtures. Officials familiar with the talks said the Obama administration realized that more nations were developing cyberweapons and that a new approach was needed to blunt an international arms race.
 In the last two years, Internet-based attacks on government and corporate computer systems have multiplied to thousands a day. Hackers, usually never identified, have compromised Pentagon computers, stolen industrial secrets and temporarily jammed government and corporate Web sites. President Obama ordered a review of the nation's Internet security in February and is preparing to name an official to coordinate national policy. 
 Last month, a delegation led by Gen. Vladislav P. Sherstyuk, a deputy secretary of the Russian Security Council and the former leader of the Russian equivalent of the National Security Agency, met in Washington with representatives from the National Security Council and the Departments of State, Defense and Homeland Security. Officials familiar with these talks said the two sides made progress in bridging divisions that had long separated the countries.
 Indeed, two weeks later in Geneva, the United States agreed to discuss cyberwarfare and cybersecurity with representatives of the United Nations committee on disarmament and international security. The United States had previously insisted on addressing those matters in the committee on economic issues. 
 The Russians have held that the increasing challenges posed by military activities to civilian computer networks can be best dealt with by an international treaty, similar to treaties that have limited the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. The United States had resisted, arguing that it was impossible to draw a line between the commercial and military uses of software and hardware.
 Now there is a thaw, said people familiar with the discussions.
 ''In the last months there are more signs of building better cooperation between the U.S. and Russia,'' said Veni Markovski, a Washington-based adviser to Bulgaria's Internet security chief and representative to Russia for the organization that assigns Internet domain names. ''These are signs that show the dangers of cybercrime are too big to be neglected.''
 Viktor V. Sokolov, deputy director of the Institute of Information Security in Moscow, a policy research group run by General Sherstyuk, said the Russian view was that the American position on Internet security had shifted perceptibly in recent months.
 ''There is movement,'' he said. Before, bilateral negotiations were limited to the relevant Russian police agency, the Bureau of Special Technical Operations, the Internet division of the Ministry of Interior, and the F.B.I.
 Mr. Sokolov characterized this new round of discussions as the opening of negotiations between Russia and the United States on a possible disarmament treaty for cyberspace, something Russia has long sought but the United States has resisted.
 ''The talks took place in a good atmosphere,'' he said. ''And they agreed to continue this process. There are positive movements.''
 A State Department official, who was not authorized to speak about the talks and requested anonymity, disputed the Russian characterization of the American position. While the Russians have continued to focus on treaties that may restrict weapons development, the United States is hoping to use the talks to increase international cooperation in opposing Internet crime. Strengthening defenses against Internet criminals would also strengthen defenses against any military-directed cyberattacks, the United States maintains. An administration official said the United States was seeking common ground with the Russians. 
 The United Nations discussions are scheduled to resume in New York in January, and the two countries also plan to talk at an annual Russia-sponsored Internet security conference in Garmisch, Germany. 
 The American interest in reopening discussions shows that the Obama administration, even in absence of a designated Internet security chief, is breaking with the Bush administration, which declined to talk with Russia about issues related to military attacks using the Internet. 
 Many countries, including the United States, are developing weapons for use on computer networks that are ever more integral to the operations of everything from banks to electrical power systems to government offices. They include ''logic bombs'' that can be hidden in computers to halt them at crucial times or damage circuitry; ''botnets'' that can disable or spy on Web sites and networks; or microwave radiation devices that can burn out computer circuits miles away.
 The Russians have focused on three related issues, according to American officials involved in the talks that are part of a broader thaw in American-Russian relations known as the ''reset'' that also include negotiations on a new nuclear disarmament treaty. In addition to continuing efforts to ban offensive cyberweapons, they have insisted on what they describe as an issue of sovereignty calling for a ban on ''cyberterrorism.'' American officials view the issue differently and describe this as a Russian effort to restrict ''politically destabilizing speech.'' The Russians have also rejected a portion of the Council of Europe Convention on Cybercrime that they assert violates their Constitution by permitting foreign law enforcement agencies to conduct Internet searches inside Russian borders.
 In late October at a luncheon during a meeting on Security and Counter Terrorism at Moscow State University, General Sherstyuk told a group of American executives that the Russians would never sign the European Cybercrime Treaty as long as it contained the language permitting cross-border searches.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the beginning of talks between the United States and Russia on strengthening Internet security and limiting military use of cyberspace misstated the given name of a Russian policy expert who said American willingness to negotiate on this issue had increased in recent months. He is Vladimir V. Sokolov, not Viktor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (92%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INFORMATION WARFARE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); CYBERCRIME (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); ARMS RACE (78%); INTERNET CRIME (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); COMPUTER CRIME (75%); DOMAIN NAMES (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BULGARIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



393 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: Washington Looks to New York

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
When housing officials in the Obama administration wanted inspiration for a program for people who needed just a little bit of help in order to avoid homelessness, one program they looked at was Homebase, run by the New York City Department of Homeless Services. 
 The program, started in 2004 in the six community districts with the highest concentration of people entering shelters, expanded to 13 city locations in 2007. It is part of the Bloomberg administration's shift from improving and expanding shelters to longer-term solutions, providing job training, legal counseling, housing relocation services and subsidies for people at risk of homelessness. 
 Thus far, city officials say, the program has helped more than 16,800 households, 90 percent of which have stayed out of shelters for at least a year after receiving aid. The Bloomberg administration also created an aggressive housing subsidy, called Advantage New York, which covers monthly rent in excess of $50 for up to two yearsas long as tenants who qualify for the program work and show that they are saving money in an account.
 Still, the city is seeing record demand for shelter, especially from families with children. 
 Robert V. Hess, the commissioner of the Department of Homeless Services, said that the demand is being driven by more than unemployment, and that some people were being pushed into homelessness by having working hours reduced. As a result, he has not been particularly heartened by the fact that this year's increase in demand was lower than last year's. ''I don't think we've seen the peak yet,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (92%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); FAMILY (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); RELOCATIONS (76%); CITIES (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



394 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1570 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood's Brilliant Coda to America's Dark Year

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
ON Christmas Day, Hollywood will blanket America with a most unlikely holiday entertainment. That's when ''Up in the Air,'' the acclaimed new movie starring George Clooney, will spread from its big-city engagements to more than 2,000 screens. Clooney plays Ryan Bingham, a corporate road warrior for a small, Omaha-based contractor hired to lay off employees for companies that prefer to outsource that unpleasant task. Ryan has fired so many people in so many cities that he is approaching a frequent-flier status unknown to all but a few Americans.
 How could a film with that premise be a Christmas hit in a country reeling from the highest unemployment rate in decades? By using the power of pop culture to salve national wounds that continue to fester in the real world. 
 ''Up in the Air'' is not a political movie. It won't be mistaken for either a Michael Moore or Ayn Rand polemic on capitalism. What makes it tick is Ryan's struggle to reclaim his own humanity, a story that will not be described or spoiled here. But the film's backdrop is just as primal -- and these days perhaps more universal -- than the personal drama so movingly atomized by Clooney in the foreground. 
 Here is an America whose battered inhabitants realize that the economic deck is stacked against them, gamed by distant, powerful figures they can't see or know. ''Up in the Air'' may be a glossy production sprinkled with laughter and sex, but it captures the distinctive topography of our Great Recession as vividly as a far more dour Hollywood product of 70 years ago, ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' did the vastly different landscape of the Great Depression.
 While ''Up in the Air'' opens with a remix of Woody Guthrie's Depression-spawned ''This Land Is Your Land,'' its dispossessed Americans don't resemble those in a black-and-white Dorothea Lange photograph. They're not the familiar contemporary blue-collar factory workers in our devastated manufacturing economy. They are instead mostly middle-class refugees from the suburban good life depicted in credit card ads. Their correlative to the Dust Bowl is a coast-to-coast wasteland of foreclosed office spaces where desk chairs and knots of dead phones lie abandoned in a fluorescent half-light. ''Up in the Air'' taps into the desperation, fear and anger that both the populist left and right are trying to articulate right now, and that leaders of both parties have failed to address. 
 ''Retailers are down 20 percent,'' Ryan's boss tells his troops in a conference room. ''Auto industry is in the dump. Housing market doesn't have a heartbeat. It is one of the worst times on record for America. This is our moment.'' And so it is. In constant flight from hub to hub, his staff parachutes into troubled companies to lay off dozens of workers with impressive assembly-line efficiency. The genial Ryan and his fellow ''transition specialists'' never use the word ''fired,'' of course. They tell employees they are being ''let go'' and not to ''take it personally.'' They hand their prey slick-looking severance packets and, with a doctor's bedside manner, intone that ''we're here to talk about the future.'' Soon it's time to send the discarded employee to collect his personal effects on the way to the exit. 
 A new colleague of Ryan's, a ''dynamite young woman'' from Cornell, comes up with an innovative strategy for downsizing the downsizers. To eliminate travel costs, she proposes that in-person firings instead be executed long-distance by teleconference, with ranks of ''termination engineers'' at computer screens reciting from a script titled ''Employee Termination Workflow.'' In a dry run, the guinea pig is a burly 57-year-old office worker who refuses to stay in the camera frame and staggers off in a paroxysm of anger and sobs. It's like watching a man being assassinated by a predator drone. But this is Detroit, not Waziristan.
 The fictional doings in ''Up in the Air,'' adapted from a 2001 novel by Walter Kirn, are bookended by brief montages culled from interviews that the director, Jason Reitman, conducted with real-life laid-off workers while shooting in Detroit and St. Louis. He asked the interviewees what they had told -- or wished they had told -- the H.R. bureaucrats who let them go. ''On the stress level, I've heard that losing your job is like a death in the family,'' says one man. ''But personally I feel more like the people I worked with were my family, and I died.''
 In rolling out his latest jobs initiative last week, President Obama said, ''Sometimes it's hard to break out of the bubble here in Washington and remind ourselves that behind these statistics are people's lives, their capacity to do right by their families.'' True enough, and in this movie you see a few of the lives behind the statistics, however fleetingly. But the point of ''Up in the Air'' is not to deliver the message that mass unemployment is a terrible tragedy. We hardly need a movie -- or a politician -- to deliver that news at this late date. 
 What gives our Great Recession its particular darkness -- and gives this film its haunting afterlife -- is the disconnect between the corporate culture that is dictating the firing and the rest of us. In the shorthand of the day, it's the dichotomy between Wall Street and Main Street, though that oversimplifies the divide. This disconnect isn't just about the huge gap in income between the financial sector and the rest of America. Nor is it just about the inequities of a government bailout that rescued the irresponsible bankers who helped crash the economy while shortchanging the innocent victims of their reckless gambles. What ''Up in the Air'' captures is less didactic. It makes palpable the cultural and even physical chasm that opened up between the two Americas for years before the financial collapse.
 The private-equity deal makers who bought and sold once-solid companies like trading cards, saddling them with debt, never saw the workers whose jobs were shredded by their cunning games of financial looting. The geniuses in Washington and on Wall Street who invented junk mortgages and then bundled and sold them as securities didn't live in the same neighborhoods as the mortgagees, small investors and retirees left holding the bag once the housing bubble burst. 
 Those at the top are separated from the consequences of their actions. They are exemplified by Robert Rubin, formerly of Citigroup and a mentor to both Obama's Treasury secretary and chief economic adviser. He looked the other way when his bank made ruinous high-risk bets, and then cashed out and split, leaving taxpayers to pay for the wreckage while he escaped any accountability. Such economic wise men peer down at the country from a hermetically sealed bubble of privilege and self-interest, much as Ryan does from the plane flying him to his next mass firing. And they tend to think, as Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs notoriously put it, that they are doing ''God's work'' to sustain our free-market system.
 ''Mad Men'' literally whacked one such executive this season. Its fans loved watching a drunken office-party accident maim a visiting overseer from the British corporation that had swallowed and downsized Sterling Cooper, the show's fictional Madison Avenue ad agency. The episode was set in 1963, but ''Mad Men'' resonates in part because it prefigures today's corporate culture. One recent plot line dealt with the mercurial machinations of the hotel tycoon Conrad Hilton, a potential client of Sterling Cooper. As coincidental thematic synergy would have it, ''Up in the Air'' portrays Ryan as an elite cardholder in a ''Hilton Honors'' program that defines brand ''loyalty'' with a mercenary zeal the Connie Hilton of ''Mad Men'' would relish.
 Last week Goldman Sachs announced it would grant some of this year's bonuses in stock, not cash, to try to stanch the public backlash to the record profits it piled up thanks to government largess. But Washington remains strangely oblivious to the mood out there. Financial reform has been embattled on Capitol Hill, where the financial industry has spent $344 million on lobbying in the first three quarters of 2009. The big ratings agencies that gave triple-A stamps of approval to Wall Street's junk are back to business as usual. Bank of America andCiti are racing to return TARP money to Washington not because they have necessarily recovered but because they want to shower rewards on their executives with impunity.
 The rage engendered by this status quo is across the political map. As unlikely as it sounds, Ron Paul and Jim DeMint, political heroes of the tea party right, and Bernie Sanders and Alan Grayson, similarly revered on the left, have found a common cause in vilifying the Federal Reserve Bank and its chairman, Ben Bernanke. The Fed is hardly the root of all evil, but you can see why it is a handy scapegoat. Like the institutions it failed to police during the boom, it wields its power from on high with little transparency to those below. 
 Meanwhile, at the company where I work, as at many others, the latest round of layoffs will be completed by Christmas. Even for the survivors it feels a little like serial deaths in the family. And who believes we're near the end of this story? For all of Wall Street's and Washington's rumors of a recovery, the fate of Americans on the ground remains very much up in the air.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); REFUGEES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: Up in the Air (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



395 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: What's Rotten for Obama in Denmark

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama jets off to Copenhagen later this week to try to place an American stamp on a global climate change agreement. He will be trailed by a cloud of diplomats and bureaucrats all proclaiming the progress his administration has made on global warming in its 11 months in office.
 What he will not be carrying is the assent of Congress to whatever he commits the United States to do. That's a problem for a leader who represents the world's second biggest greenhouse gas polluter, behind China.
 While the House passed a bill in June that embodies Mr. Obama's pledge to reduce those emissions to about 17 percent below 2005 levels over the next decade, the Senate has barely begun to debate the issue. 
 The Senate is split on global warming policy into numerous factions divided by ideology, geography and economic interest. And that's just the Democratic caucus. Republicans are nearly united in opposition to the kind of legislation that would be needed to match Mr. Obama's ambitions.
 Without Senate action -- and, down the road, Senate concurrence in any climate treaty he negotiates -- Mr. Obama's promises are merely that, almost certainly not enough to persuade other nations to commit to greenhouse gas reductions.
 Can Mr. Obama surmount those problems in his latest effort to save the world? Or will he fly away from Copenhagen as empty-handed as he did in September, when he went there in a losing effort to promote Chicago as the site for the 2016 Olympics?
 ''This is definitely a Goldilocks problem,'' saidJason Grumet, president of the Bipartisan Policy Center and an energy adviser to the Obama campaign last year.
 ''The trick is finding something just right in balancing the importance of demonstrating international leadership while not undermining the legislative dynamic here at home.''
 Mr. Obama enters the Copenhagen negotiations without anything close to consensus in his own party for his cap-and-trade plan to reduce emissions. The issue pits coastal liberals against the so-called Brown Dogs of the Rust Belt and the Great Plains whose states depend heavily on coal for power and manufacturing for jobs. At least a dozen of these Democrats have made it clear they will not accept any legislation -- or any treaty -- that threatens their industries or jobs. Another Senate coalition emerged last week behind a proposal to tax fossil fuels and return most of the revenues to consumers to compensate for higher energy prices. But that plan, though it has drawn some Republican support, is also unlikely to meet the 60-vote threshold required to call a vote.
 It is not at all clear today that Mr. Obama and his allies in the Senate can overcome these obstacles next year, or ever. And without the Senate, the entire international project is in jeopardy because without the participation of the United States -- which emits 20 percent of all greenhouse gases -- any international regime is bound to fall short.
 See: Kyoto Protocol. That was the ill-fated 1997 climate accord that the Senate refused to consider because it made no binding demands on developing nations to limit their emissions. The Copenhagen conference is supposed to come up with a framework to replace it, and one of the big fights standing in the way is the level of emissions reductions that developing nations are willing to accept.
 ''It's a nine-dimensional political challenge,'' Mr. Grumet said. ''There is absolutely no way to satisfy all desires.''
 Mr. Obama is trying to both prod the Senate into action and go around it with a series of administrative actions that will begin unilaterally to address the problem of greenhouse gas emissions and demonstrate to other nations the president's will to tackle the issue.
 His administration struck a deal with automakers to increase fuel efficiency by 30 percent and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by a similar amount by 2016. Some $80 billion in stimulus spending has been earmarked for clean energy projects, energy efficiency and research on capturing carbon emissions. The government will require that all major pollution sources report their greenhouse gas emissions starting in January. And earlier this month the Environmental Protection Agency finalized its finding that carbon dioxide and other climate-altering gases pose a threat to human health and welfare, paving the way for sweeping, economy-wide regulation of global warming pollutants.
 E.P.A. regulation is the trump card that the administration is holding if Congress continues to dither. But Mr. Obama has repeatedly said that he much prefers a messy Congressional compromise. Trying to remake much of the economy by regulatory fiat is certain to become entangled in years of litigation.
 Yet Mr. Obama cannot simply tell the other leaders at Copenhagen that he must await assent from Congress before he can commit the United States on global warming. He is asking the leaders of Western Europe and Australia to commit troops to support his buildup in Afghanistan and he can hardly stiff them on climate change, a global threat many of them consider as menacing as terrorism.
 In other words, his trip this week may have as much to do with Kandahar as Copenhagen. But that does not necessarily help his cause at home.
 SenatorJames Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma, is the leader of Congressional skeptics on the science of climate change and the global efforts to address it. He said that Mr. Obama is handcuffed by Senate fractiousness on the issue and new doubts among some about the basic science underpinning the talks. (The overwhelming majority of atmospheric scientists believe the planet is warming and humans are responsible.)
 ''I suspectPresident Obama is making the trip to Copenhagen in order to 'save' the climate conference,'' Mr. Inhofe said. ''Yet no amount of lofty rhetoric or promises of future commitments can save it. This is due in large part to the fact cap-and-trade legislation in the Senate is dying on the vine, and, as important, are recent revelations of leading climate scientists who appear to have manufactured the climate 'consensus' casting doubt over the entire global warming enterprise.''
 All of which leaves Mr. Obama in a bind.
 More than a year ago, Mr. Obama said of climate change: ''Delay is no longer an option. Denial is no longer an acceptable response.''
 But when Mr. Obama and other world leaders met last month, they were forced to abandon the goal of reaching a binding accord at Copenhagen because the American political system is not ready to agree to a treaty that would force the United States, over time, to accept profound changes in its energy, transport and manufacturing sectors.
 So the leaders said they planned to leave Copenhagen with an interim political deal and work toward a binding treaty next year.
 Delay, it turns out, was the only option.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS JACKSON/GETTY IMAGES)(WK1)
PROBLEMS: President Obama faces opposition in Congress to his climate plans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF J MITCHELL/GETTY IMAGES
 DOUG MILLS/ THE NEW YORK TIMES)(WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); DENMARK (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



396 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (TV Guide) I DREAMED A DREAM: THE SUSAN BOYLE STORY She seemingly came from nowhere and took the world by storm, and now, Susan Boyle, above, says, ''I don't want the dream to end.'' Piers Morgan hosts this special, which follows the trajectory of Ms. Boyle. She was plucked from obscurity in the village of Blackburn in Scotland and catapulted to stardom -- with a few bumps along the way -- after performing on ''Britain's Got Talent,'' for which Mr. Morgan, along with Simon Cowell and Amanda Holden, is a judge. Ms. Boyle will sing ''Who I Was Born to Be'' and ''Cry Me a River'' from her new album, as well as her signature song, ''I Dreamed a Dream,'' from ''Les Miserables,'' introduced by a rendition of ''One Day More'' performed by the show's London cast. Several of Ms. Boyle's friends, family members and fans, including the comedy duo Ant and Dec, will offer their perspectives on her unexpected celebrity. 
 10 A.M. (FOX) FOX NEWS SUNDAY WITH CHRIS WALLACE Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, and Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, will discuss the job creation measures and financing proposed by the Obama administration. 
 10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK WITH GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOSLawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council, and Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia, talk about the economy with Mr. Stephanopoulos, right.
 10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky; Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia; Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska; and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, discuss what is next for health care.
 10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESSChristina D. Romer, chairwoman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, discusses the recovery of the economy.
 7 P.M. (CBS) 60 MINUTES President Obama speaks with Steve Kroft about the administration's plans for Afghanistan and Pakistan, the economy and the creation of jobs, and his reaction to the security breach at the White House state dinner. Also, Morley Safer reports on growing body parts from human cells, and Lesley Stahl interviews Ricky Gervais.
 8 P.M. (History) THE PEOPLE SPEAK In this documentary from Howard Zinn, based on his books ''A People's History of the United States'' and ''Voices of a People's History of the United States,'' dramatic and musical performances of letters, diaries and speeches written by everyday Americans give voice to those who spoke up for social change throughout the country's history. 
 8 P.M. (LMN) THE CHRISTMAS HOPE (2009) A couple (Madeleine Stowe and James Remar) whose marriage is crumbling take in an orphan (Tori Barban) for the holidays on the anniversary of their son's death. Across town, a doctor and father-to-be (Ian Ziering) tries to find the parents of a young man who died in his emergency room two years earlier. He has a gift to give.
 8 P.M. (ABC Family) SANTA BABY 2: CHRISTMAS MAYBE (2009) Bogged down in a late-life crisis, Santa (Paul Sorvino) contemplates passing the reins to his daughter, Mary (Jenny McCarthy). But she's torn between taking over the family business or running her own firm in New York while juggling life with her love, Luke (Dean McDermott). Then a disgruntled former elf (Kelly Stables) starts stirring up trouble at the North Pole in an effort to take over Christmas.
 9 P.M. (A&E) THE JACK5ONS: A FAMILY DYNASTY This new six-hour series follows the surviving members of the Jackson 5 -- Jackie, Jermaine, Tito and Marlon -- as they prepare for a reunion tour while coping with the death of their brother Michael. In this premiere episode, the men's plans to record a 40th-anniversary album are jeopardized when Jackie infuriates Jermaine by erasing his vocals, causing unresolved issues to surface about his departure from the ensemble more than 30 years ago. At 10, the brothers are still deeply mourning the death of Michael when their lawyer informs them that they are obligated to carry through with a previously scheduled performance. Meanwhile, Jermaine's commitment to the group seems to falter.
 10 P.M. (ABC) CHRISTMAS AT THE WHITE HOUSE: AN OPRAH PRIMETIME SPECIAL The first couple welcomes Oprah Winfrey into the White House for their family's first Christmas there, above, and offers a behind-the-scenes look at preparations for the holiday season. Ms. Winfrey also interviews President Obama individually and together with the first lady, Michelle. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); HISTORY (86%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); RECORD RELEASES (68%); MUSIC (68%); CHRISTMAS (66%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: SIMON COWELL (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (54%); ERIC CANTOR (50%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (50%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%); BEN NELSON (50%); JOE LIEBERMAN (50%); JUDD GREGG (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) KENTUCKY, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SCOTLAND (88%); PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFGHANISTAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



397 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2090 words

HEADLINE: Can Nokia Recapture Its Glory Days?

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

DATELINE: HELSINKI, Finland 

 BODY:
 IF there's anywhere left in the world where it's still impolite to flash a BlackBerry or an iPhone, it's Nokia's annual analyst meeting.
 But earlier this month, as executives talked up the company's plans for 2010, the optimistic message from the stage was belied by the behavior of the audience. In the back of the room, one money manager after another distractedly toyed with a competing device, typically a BlackBerry, even as cheery PowerPoint slides promoted Nokia's latest offerings. 
 Francois Meunier, an analyst with Cazenove in London, whispered doubts about the presentation as he tried to catch the eye of one of the floor managers handing out microphones for the question-and-answer session. Finally, it was Mr. Meunier's turn, but before he could ask an actual question, he couldn't resist declaring publicly what he'd been muttering all afternoon.
 ''I don't think anyone in this room is expecting an improvement in earnings next year,'' he told the assembled executives, before asking whether Nokia's 4 percent dividend is sustainable. 
 Mr. Meunier's downbeat assessment of the once-mighty mobile phone maker's prospects in 2010 comes after an equally gloomy 2009, a year the company would just as soon forget. 
 Although Nokia, based near Helsinki in Espoo, still commands 37 percent of the world's handset market, it's facing bruising competition in the lucrative high end of the industry, where Apple's iPhone and Research in Motion's BlackBerry have grabbed the cool factor in smartphones that can surf the Web and handle e-mail. 
 ''The whole user experience is a nightmare,'' moans Nick Jones, a senior analyst with Gartner, which tracks the technology sector. ''It's just not in any sense a competitive experience with iPhone.''
 Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, the company's taciturn chief executive, admits the mood out there is gloomy, especially on Wall Street. ''We are not getting the benefit of the doubt,'' he said in an interview the day after the analysts' meeting. ''We need to change that.''
 Nokia's problems are especially acute in North America, where its hold on smartphones equals a barely visible 3.9 percent, compared with 51 percent for Research in Motion and 29.5 percent for Apple, according to Gartner. As if to underscore its problems in the United States, Nokia announced Thursday that it would shutter its flagship stores in New York and Chicago.
 ''We made wrong decisions in the American market,'' says Kai Oistamo, executive vice president for devices. For example, Nokia was slow to make the change to so-called clamshell phones, sticking with ''monoblock'' models even as consumers abandoned them. 
 And while Nokia first offered touch-screen technology in 2004 -- three years before the debut of the iPhone -- Apple's models quickly made Nokia's competing products look stodgy. Most of Nokia's touch-screen phones can't quickly transform their screen with the jab of a finger, which is among the factors that make the iPhone seem so much more slick.
 Until recently, according to both Nokia executives and industry experts, the company didn't want to produce phones specifically tailored for American consumer tastes, and it resisted demands from the major carriers to come up with phones based around their brands and individual specifications. 
 ''The market in the U.S. has always been dominated by the carriers, so they call the shots,'' says Carolina Milanesi of Gartner. ''And Nokia has had a difficult relationship with the carriers.''
 Nokia has also been hobbled by its traditional weakness in phones employing C.D.M.A., the wireless technology offered by Sprint and Verizon Wireless that's used by about 50 percent of American consumers. (Sprint's current lineup does not include any Nokia models.) Nokia focuses instead on G.S.M. phones for AT&T and T-Mobile. However, AT&T's exclusive deal with Apple has hurt Nokia in the high-end smartphone market.
 And though Nokia sells a lot of smartphones elsewhere in the world, its share of the global smartphone market has fallen to 39.3 percent, down from 42.3 percent a year ago. Even in Nokia's home base of Europe, the iPhone is rapidly gaining in popularity.
 Nokia is finally responding -- its lithe, BlackBerry-like E72 appeared in the United States on Tuesday -- but it is facing looming threats in other segments. 
 Google is offering Android, a rival to Nokia's own operating system, which has been picked up by competitors like HTC, Motorola and Dell, while Asian manufacturers are turning up the heat with low-priced handsets in emerging economies where Nokia has long enjoyed outsize market share. Meanwhile, Apple and Nokia are locked in a legal battle over patents.
 ''Nokia faces competition everywhere,'' says Sherief Bakr, a Citigroup analyst. ''At the high end from Apple, in the midrange by Research in Motion, and by the Koreans and the Chinese in the low end.''
 ALL in all, it's enough to make the mood as grim as a December day in Helsinki, where the sun struggles to get above the horizon by 9 a.m and night falls at 4 p.m.
 Once a stock market darling, Nokia shares have fallen 20 percent since September even as the broader market has rallied. The company reported its first quarterly loss in more than a decade in October after a $1.3 billion write-down in its equipment business.
 Here in Finland, Nokia's problems are felt especially keenly. Nokia accounts for 25 percent of the Helsinki stock exchange's capitalization and one-third of Finland's total research and development spending, according to Jyrki Ali-Yrkko, of the private Research Institute of the Finnish Economy. 
 Deeper than the numbers, however, has been the damage to Nokia's role as a wellspring of pride in a country historically known for exporting wood and paper products, not high tech.
 Nokia's roots go back to 1865, and as recently as the 1980s, its products included not only cable and telecom equipment but also rubber boots and toilet paper. But in the early 1990s, many businesses were spun off in favor of the growing cellphone sector. By the mid-1990s, under its former chief executive and current chairman, Jorma Ollila, the profits were rolling in. 
 Nokia quickly became one of Europe's rare technology success stories, an exception in an industry dominated by American and Japanese giants. And in a traditional, social-democratic Nordic country where ostentatious displays of wealth are frowned upon, hundreds of long-time employees became Nokia millionaires, says Mr. Ali-Yrkko.
 ''Nokia has been the flagship of Finland in terms of a company succeeding on a global scale,'' he says. ''But that sense of glory we had has disappeared, or at least diminished.''
 The problems have reached all the way to Finland's national coffers. In 2007, Nokia paid 18 percent of Finland's overall corporate taxes, but that dropped to 9 percent last year, and the contribution is expected to be even lower in 2009. The Finnish government may have to increase borrowing to make up for the shortfall, warns Mr. Ali-Yrkko.
 A lawyer by training, the C.E.O. Mr. Kallasvuo is a much more cautious leader than his predecessor, the charismatic Mr. Ollila, who some Finns thought might go into politics after he stepped down as chief executive in 2006. At times, Mr. Kallasvuo seems uneasy when pressed for his vision of Nokia's future, and repeated earnings disappointments have led many analysts to question whether his dour style is what's needed as new competitors circle.
 ''The market believes this is a management team that can't and won't execute,'' says Mr. Bakr. ''There is a large element of investors who are not convinced that Kallasvuo is the man who can make this transition and compete with the likes of Steve Jobs.''
 Despite the pessimism outside, Mr. Kallasvuo insists spirits are still high inside the company. ''Competition is nothing new; we've been attacked by many players,'' he says. And while last quarter's performance ''was difficult for me and the C.F.O., it wasn't a difficult moment for an excited Nokia engineer who wants to change the world.''
 IF Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo seems to have stepped off the set of an Ingmar Bergman movie, then Anssi Vanjoki's charisma and sculpted features recall Michael Douglas. An 18-year veteran of Nokia, he is the executive vice president for markets as well as something of a standout in Nokia's geeky culture. In a country where speeding tickets are directly tied to income on a sliding scale, he racked up a 116,000 euro ($170,000) fine racing his motorcycle through Helsinki, although he was able to negotiate that figure down somewhat.
 Much more feisty than Mr. Kallasvuo, he is unwilling to admit Nokia has lost any of its competitive edge. ''We have not lost our ability to innovate; we have not lost our ability to truly understand the consumer and make intuitive solutions for them,'' Mr. Vanjoki says. 
 Indeed, for all the new competition in smartphones, Nokia remains the dominant player in conventional handsets, selling roughly 15 phones a second worldwide, according to the company, including the Nokia 1201, a basic model that is its best seller. Analysts project revenue in 2010 will top $60 billion, while profit is expected to equal $3.5 billion next year as the overall phone market grows 10 percent. 
 And while market share might be minuscule in North America, the company commands a whopping 62.3 percent of the market in the Middle East and Africa, as well as 48.5 percent in Eastern Europe and 41.8 percent in Asia. ''We are the incumbent behemoth of the mobile arena,'' Mr. Vanjoki boasts.
 What's more, Nokia has been written off before. 
 Citing past crises in 1998 (the advent of smaller phones), 2001 (the bursting of the tech bubble) and 2004 (the sudden popularity of flip phones), Mr. Vanjoki says. ''we've always had points where technology hit a plateau and had to be reconfigured.''
 SO why didn't Nokia move more quickly to counter Apple and Research in Motion in smartphones? ''We didn't execute; we were aiming at too geeky a community,'' he says. ''Apple is made for the common man. It's more for Joe Six-Pack than techno-geeks. But we understand Joe Six-Pack too.'' 
 The coming 12 months will show whether Mr. Vanjoki's confidence is warranted, and he better be right as far as shareholders are concerned, since smartphones are where the growth is.
 By 2013, Gartner predicts smart device sales will represent 82.5 percent of the mobile phone business in Western Europe, and 58.2 percent of sales in North America and 18.2 percent in Asia. Nokia generated $5.6 billion in sales from conventional phones in the third quarter worldwide, compared to $4.6 billion for smartphones.
 Nokia executives say new offerings like the N900, which is as much a mobile computer as it is a phone, or the N97 Mini, which combines touch-screen technology with a qwerty keyboard, will win back buzz from Apple and BlackBerry while appealing to the company's 1.1 billion customers. Then there's the X6, out this month, which includes Nokia's Comes With Music plan, allowing users to choose from millions of songs they can download free from Nokia's Music Store.
 Another crucial development in 2010, according to Mr. Kallasvuo, will be a bigger push for North American market share, as Nokia works more closely with carriers and brings out more smartphones. ''We have not invested enough there,'' he says. ''It's a necessity for us.'' 
 Although it's still secret, Nokia executives are also promising a smartphone for next year that will update the company's aging Symbian operating system, combining the touch-screen coolness of the iPhone with a BlackBerry-like e-mail solution. ''We intend to give R.I.M. a run for their money,'' says Mr. Kallasvuo.
 And though Nokia's flagship outlets in the United States may be folding, the Finnish giant is still trying to compete directly with Apple online, opening Ovi (''door'' in Finnish) in May to compete with Apple's hugely successful Apps Store.
 Looking out further, Nokia's engineers are promising nifty new features like the ability to simply point your phone at a friend to connect to the person's Facebook page.
 For all of Nokia's mistakes, Citigroup's Mr. Bakr says the company can bounce back yet again. ''Sitting in London or New York, you don't appreciate the dynamics of Nokia's huge market share, especially in emerging markets,'' he says. ''I think they know what they've done wrong and what they need to do right. It's just a question of whether they can execute in time.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Losing ground in North America to iPhones and BlackBerrys, Nokia has decided to close its New York flagship store. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
Nokia headquarters near Helsinki. One analyst said investors weren't confident in the chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT, EVA PERSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RIGHT, PEKKA SAKKI/LEHTIKUVA, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Nokia's answer to BlackBerrys is the E72, introduced in the United States last Tuesday. (BU8) CHART: A Mobile Leader Lagging: Sales growth for Nokia's smartphones slowed this year, while growth at competitors like Apple and HTC soared. (Source: Gartner) (BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (71%); INTERVIEWS (66%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (63%)

COMPANY: NOKIA CORP (93%); APPLE INC (91%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (90%)

TICKER: NOK1V (HEL) (93%); NOK1V (BIT) (93%); NOK (NYSE) (93%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (91%); RIM (TSX) (90%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (91%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HELSINKI, FINLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); FINLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2009



398 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Developing Its Own Phone, Google Is Taking On Apple

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT; Jenna Wortham contributed reporting.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Two titans of the tech world, Google and Apple, may soon be engaged in hand-to-hand combat. Or, more precisely, handset-to-handset combat.
 Google plans to begin selling its own smartphone early next year, company employees say, a move that could challenge Apple's leadership in one of the fastest-growing and most important technologies in decades.
 Google's new touch-screen Android phone, which it began giving to many employees to test last week, could also shake up the fundamentals of the cellphone market in the United States, where most phones work only on the networks of the wireless carriers that sold them. 
 The company, using the power of its brand, plans to market and sell the new phone directly to consumers over the Internet, and buyers would be able to sign up for service from any compatible provider, the employees say. 
 The introduction of a Google phone -- manufactured to its hardware and software specifications by an Asian maker of handsets -- would be an important and risky departure for Google. Until now, it has made software to power cellphones that are built and marketed by partners, and it has largely avoided selling hardware.
 The apparent shift underscores the fact that mobile phones are quickly becoming the biggest technology battleground of the future, as consumers increasingly rely on their phones to browse the Internet and perform other computing tasks. 
 It also indicates Google's determination to make its mark on yet another industry, as it has done previously in advertising, books and online videos.
 But analysts say it is not clear that Google's success on the Internet will carry over into the design, marketing and distribution of hardware. Many companies have tried to make similar shifts and stumbled. Microsoft turned the Xbox into a hit, but when it pushed aside its partners in the music-player business in favor of its own Zune, it failed to gain traction against Apple and its iPods.
 The phone's success could also depend on how Google chooses to price it. Most Americans buy phones that are subsidized by wireless carriers, which recoup that cost by locking customers into contracts. IPhones that cost consumers $199 actually cost AT&T about $550, analysts say.
 Katie Watson, a Google spokeswoman, declined to comment on the company's plans. She referred reporters to a blog post published Saturday in which Google said that the new device was a ''mobile lab'' that would let employees test out new technologies. 
 Google employees who spoke on the condition of anonymity because plans for the phone were supposed to be confidential said that the device, manufactured by the Taiwanese company HTC, was thinner than Apple's iPhone, with a slightly larger touch screen. It could be available as early as January, they said.
 Employees say the phone will be sold unlocked, meaning that buyers will be able to choose a service provider, and will be based on G.S.M. technology, which is used by AT&T and T-Mobile in the United States and by most other carriers around the world. It is named Nexus One, according to various reports and to digital traces that the phones have been leaving on Web sites. 
 Google had long insisted that it was not interested in building and selling phones, saying it preferred to rely on hardware partners and wireless carriers to market a wide variety of phones powered by Android, the operating system that it offers free. 
 In October, Andy Rubin, vice president of engineering for Android at Google, scoffed at the idea that the company would ''compete with its customers'' by releasing its own phone, according to the technology news service CNet.
 Analysts say that the apparent shift signals a recognition by the company's executives that Google needs to take more control of its destiny in the wireless world.
 ''They perceive mobile as the next major opportunity,'' said Jeffrey Lindsay, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. ''It is too big a risk to drive the strategy through their partners. They want more say and more control.'' 
 In addition, analysts say that the iPhone, despite prominently featuring some Google services, makes the company nervous. 
 ''They don't want to have access to Google being controlled or influenced by one player like Apple,'' said Ben Schachter, an analyst with Broadpoint AmTech, a research firm. 
 Google wants to get more people using Web-friendly phones in part because it depends on the growth of search advertising, which is slowing on PCs. On cellphones, however, use of Google's mobile search engine grew 30 percent in six months this year, Mr. Schachter said. ''That's huge, and a majority of that growth is coming from the iPhone,'' he said. ''When that happens, Apple has a lot of power over influencing users' behavior.'' 
 Until recently, Google and Apple were considered close allies with a common enemy: Microsoft. They shared two board members, Eric E. Schmidt, the chairman and chief executive of Google, and Arthur Levinson, the former chief executive of Genentech. 
 But the rise of mobile phones has increasingly pitted the two companies against each other. More than a year ago, Mr. Schmidt began recusing himself from discussions of the iPhone in Apple board meetings. 
 Google and Apple compete in other areas, like online distribution of music and video, Web browsers, and soon, computer operating systems. But it is in mobile phones that the two companies appear to be battling most aggressively. In recent weeks, Google has unveiled a string of cutting-edge services for smartphones that run Android. They included an application that gives turn-by-turn driving directions, which Google is giving away free. A comparable application from the satellite navigation company TomTom for the iPhone costs $99. 
 ''Finally, Apple will meet a worthy competitor,'' said Ashok Kumar, an analyst with Northeast Securities, who predicted two months ago that Google would develop and market its own phone. 
 Natalie Kerris, an Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment on Google's plans.
 Analysts say that Google's gamble is a risky one, in particular because it could alienate Google's Android partners, which include handset makers like Motorola and Samsung, and carriers like Verizon Wireless, Sprint and T-Mobile.
 Those partners are largely responsible for the recent momentum of Android. They have introduced a handful of new devices in recent months, including the Motorola Droid, a well-reviewed and powerful device. But Android phones continue to be outsold by the iPhone, which is also the phone of choice for developers of tens of thousands of cellphone applications.
 Analysts say Google may believe that only its own backing could make Android into a serious competitor to the iPhone, which for now in the United States is available only through AT&T. That exclusivity is expected to end next year if the deal is not renewed.
 It is not clear whether Google will team up with carriers to sell service plans for the phone, or whether Google will subsidize the devices in the hope of making up the difference with profits from mobile advertising.
 ''If it is not subsidized, then I suspect the impact will be small,'' said Charles S. Golvin, a wireless industry analyst at Forrester Research. Mr. Golvin said that Nokia had tried to sell unsubsidized high-end phones in the United States without much success. ''If they choose to sell it subsidized, then the impact could be very, very significant,'' he added.
 Analysts also said that Google's gambit might be aimed at important overseas markets, where unlocked, unsubsidized phones tend to be the norm.
 Mr. Kumar said that while Google's plans may upset carriers, the company could find ways to placate them and to continue to work with them. ''As long as Google provides a platform that the carriers can profit from, they will be happy participants,'' he said. ''Google could share profits from advertising with the carriers.''
 Much will depend, of course, on how appealing the phone is. Some people who say they have had an early look have gushed about it on Twitter, with one calling it ''a sexy beast.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Mobile Shift: Smartphone sales have risen despite the worldwide economic downturn. (Source: Gartner) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); MARKETING PLAN (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); INTERNET VIDEO (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); BRANDING (69%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (69%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); APPLE INC (94%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009



399 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1523 words

HEADLINE: A Studio Head Finds His Stride

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
At 3:08 last Monday afternoon, a handful of workers on storm-soaked walks at the Paramount Pictures lot here saw something unlikely: A double rainbow arched over the executive building.
 Five years into the uneasy reign of its chairman, Brad Grey, Paramount is at long last catching a moment in the sun.
 Home entertainment revenue is up sharply in the fourth quarter, as the DVDs of three summer hits -- ''Star Trek,'' ''G. I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra'' and ''Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen,'' the year's biggest movie to date -- flood the Christmas market. Ticket sales have been good, too: ''Paranormal Activity,'' made for $15,000 and marketed on the cheap, took in $107 million at the box office after opening in late September.
 And costs have dropped, as Mr. Grey bumped one expensive release, Martin Scorsese's ''Shutter Island,'' into next year, to focus on a $25 million Oscar contender, Jason Reitman's ''Up in the Air,'' and on the December introduction of Peter Jackson's ''The Lovely Bones,'' a film that will not get its big-budget marketing push until January. 
 ''Yes, it will be our biggest,'' Mr. Grey said of the profit potential in a quarter that caps a strong year for Paramount in a generally weak film industry.
 Since taking charge of the studio from Sherry Lansing in January 2005, Mr. Grey has hired, fired, ramped up, scaled back, acquired a film company in DreamWorks SKG, then parted company with Steven Spielberg and its other principals as they chafed under his leadership and left the Paramount fold.
 Along the way, he attracted attention, critical and otherwise, about his bid for prominence in the movie industry, after years spent mostly in television, both as a talent manager, and as an executive producer of shows like ''The Sopranos'' and ''Politically Incorrect.'' 
 Last week, Mr. Grey spoke back in a far-ranging, if cautious, conversation about both his tenure and his plans for Paramount, a Viacom unit where his contract as chief executive runs for four more years.
 ''I'm passionate about Paramount, I'm passionate about my colleagues here,'' said Mr. Grey. He is trim at the age of 51, with a gray-flecked brush cut and a certain kinship with Ryan Bingham, the job termination expert played by George Clooney in ''Up in the Air.''
 At Paramount, Mr. Grey said, the job cuts have largely stopped -- though not before about a third of the 3,000 employees there when he arrived had been pushed out. 
 The head count was 2,642 in September, as cutbacks in home video and other areas were offset by hiring to create an international distribution system to replace one that had been shared with Universal Pictures. 
 In a creative group now headed by a former DreamWorks executive, Adam Goodman, Mr. Grey insisted that the turmoil was over. In June, he fired John Lesher and Brad Weston, who only 18 months before had replaced another short-lived appointee, Gail Berman, as Paramount's top film executives.
 Asked to describe his greatest mistake while at Paramount, Mr. Grey at first deflected the question, then said that it lay with his hiring decisions. ''Putting a team together that had time to jell was more challenging than I thought,'' he said.
 As for achievements, Mr. Grey is proud to have whittled Paramount's release schedule to what he believes will be a profitable core of about 16 films a year. The studio expects to produce about a dozen, and acquire a handful from outside suppliers.
 That film count is down from a peak of 22 two years ago, when Mr. Grey, eager to pull Paramount out of last place in box-office market share, had aggressively expanded production. Not least, he did so by building a specialty division, Paramount Vantage, that delivered a spate of awards contenders -- including ''Babel,'' ''Into the Wild,'' and, with Miramax, ''There Will Be Blood'' and ''No Country for Old Men'' -- only to shut it down quickly.
 In closing Paramount Vantage, said Mr. Grey, he was backing away not from the awards game, but only from a costly structure that could not be supported in a deteriorating economy. ''You have to evolve,'' he said.
 By year's end, Paramount will have released just 14 movies, and a handful of remaining Paramount Vantage films, fewer than any of its major competitors. But it has been running second only to Warner Brothers in the box-office race, with almost $1.5 billion in domestic ticket sales, to $1.9 billion for Warner, which has twice as many pictures.
 Richard Greenfield, a media analyst with Pali Capital, calls all of this a good start. ''It's still a studio in transition,'' Mr. Greenfield said in a telephone interview.
 ''They're now gaining some momentum in finding their own franchises,'' said Mr. Greenfield, who pointed to the revitalization of the longstanding ''Star Trek'' series as an achievement akin to Warner's rebooting of the ''Batman'' films. As to whether the good times can be sustained, Mr. Greenfield said ''that can't be answered today,'' though he added: ''They're in a far, far better position than they were.''
 Viacom's filmed entertainment operation -- principally Paramount -- posted a $69 million operating profit in the third quarter, compared with a $19 million loss in the year-earlier period. For the nine months, it had an operating loss of $79 million, with revenue of $3.7 billion. 
 In 2008, filmed entertainment had just $26 million in operating income on about $5.8 billion in revenue, which included receipts from hits as big as ''Iron Man'' and ''Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.''
 In speaking to investors last month, Philippe Dauman, Viacom's chief executive, described Paramount's current film portfolio as a ''rationalized slate,'' with a marketing and distribution organization tailored to what he said has been ''a high ratio of big hits.''
 It is a classic strategy, less freighted than that of, say, Disney, with its talk of digital transformation.
 Over all, the idea is to pick winners and to do so without relying heavily on the kind of outside investors and other risk-sharing mechanisms that were common before the capital markets tightened last year.
 In finding those hits -- and avoiding misses, like ''The Love Guru'' or ''The Soloist'' -- Mr. Grey's staff will be increasingly on its own. A string of films from the now-departed DreamWorks team, which delivered movies as valuable as the ''Transformers'' series, is nearly played out. And Marvel Entertainment, though it still owes Paramount five movies, including ''Iron Man 2,'' under a distribution agreement, is now owned by Walt Disney.
 But, said Mr. Grey, the profit potential from successes that are produced and owned entirely by Paramount is vastly higher than that from films that are distributed for a fee from suppliers like Marvel or DreamWorks Animation, whose own deal with Paramount runs to 2012. ''We want that exponential profit,'' said Mr. Grey.
 In Paramount's next round, one prospective new action franchise, ''Max Steel,'' is based on a Mattel toy. There is no script or director, but Taylor Lautner, the teenage heart-throb from ''The Twilight Saga: New Moon,'' has signed on for what people briefed on the deal said was $10 million. Mr. Grey declined to confirm the price.
 There will be sequels, said Mr. Grey, to both ''Paranormal Activity,'' which had been overlooked by most of the industry, and ''G.I. Joe.'' That one was widely expected to be a flop -- ''We were worried, yes,'' Mr. Grey acknowledged -- until it opened in August to $54.7 million in weekend business, and eventually took in $150 million in the United States, matched by strong sales around the world. 
 From the director Gore Verbinski and the actor Johnny Depp, who worked together on Disney's ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' films, he is expecting ''Rango,'' a computer-animated, Western-themed animal saga.
 In an effort to create a kind of research and development arm, Paramount is also allotting about $1 million a year to produce about 10 movies in a new micro-budget division where budgets will be kept under $100,000. Building on the success of ''Paranormal Activity,'' the idea is to make films that can be released unconventionally -- sometimes in theaters, sometimes not -- without relying on expensive advertising. The investment is so small that a single success could cover the division's expenses for the entire year, while also creating an environment where a new filmmaker might emerge or an established one could safely experiment.
 On another front, Paramount is expected as early as this week to extend a trial period under which it has made films available to the discount video renter Redbox, even as several other studios have avoided dealing with the service
 As for J. J. Abrams, a producer and the director of ''Star Trek,'' Mr. Grey is looking for ''Star Trek 2.'' And ''Mission: Impossible IV.'' And possibly before either, what he called another ''tentpole'' film to be directed by Mr. Abrams, and yet to be announced.
 ''We have been wildly ambitious,'' Mr. Grey said of his plans. ''It has much to do with the fact that we are feeling as strong as we are.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brad Grey, chairman of Paramount Pictures, on the studio's lot in Hollywood. Its plans, he says, are ''wildly ambitious.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE RECTOR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Paramount is now cashing in on DVD sales of ''Star Trek,'' one of its summer hits. The studio is looking to make a sequel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J.J. ABRAMS/PARAMOUNT PICTURES AND CBS STUDIOS)
 ''The Love Guru,'' with Mike Myers, was one of Paramount's misses in 2008, along with ''The Soloist'' this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE KRAYCHYK/PARAMOUNT PICTURES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TICKET SALES (76%); CHRISTMAS (69%); LAYOFFS (68%)

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (66%); VIACOM INC (58%)

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (66%); VIA (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (66%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%); J J ABRAMS (55%); GEORGE CLOONEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009



400 of 855 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People & Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts, People & Miscellany
 Accounts
 Pizza Hut, Wichita, Kan., part of Yum Brands, named the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., a unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as its lead creative agency, assuming duties that had been handled by BBDO New York, part of the BBDO Worldwide unit of the Omnicom Group. Spending was estimated at $275 million. Martin was selected after a review that had been narrowed to that agency and Gotham, New York, also owned by Interpublic; BBDO New York withdrew from the review.
 Capital One Bank, part of the Capital One Financial Corporation, McLean, Va., expanded its relationship with Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, by awarding the agency assignments for print, radio, digital, out-of-home and nontraditional advertising. Spending was not disclosed. The tasks had been handled internally and by several outside agencies. DDB Worldwide, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, continues to handle television advertising for the bank. A unit of Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal works on direct-marketing and digital assignments for the bank's credit cards division. 
 The Winston-Salem, N.C., office of Mullen, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, was named to handle accounts for two advertisers with undisclosed spending. The office becomes agency of record for the United States and Canadian markets for Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, Winston-Salem. The assignment, which includes creative work along with media planning and buying, had been handled internally. And the office was named the North American agency of record for Kumon Math and Reading Centers, Teaneck, N.J., part of the Kumon Institute of Education Company of Japan, to handle tasks like advertising, public relations, media and digital work. The previous agency for Kumon was Vox Marketing, Boston.
 The Chrysler Group, Auburn Hills, Mich., shifted two assignments that had been handled by units of the Omnicom Group. Media planning and buying for the Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge and Ram brands in the United States, Canada and Mexico will be handled by Universal McCann, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Spending for the assignment, previously handled by the PHD unit of Omnicom, has not been determined; the company has been reducing its ad spending significantly. Universal McCann will work on the assignment primarily from Detroit, with the help of offices in New York and San Francisco. And the Chrysler Group expanded its relationship with the Meredith Corporation by awarding the company's Meredith Integrated Marketing unit the duties for customer relationship management in the United States and Canada. The assignment, with undisclosed billings, had been handled by the Troy, Mich., office of BBDO Worldwide, part of Omnicom. Meredith already publishes custom magazines for the Chrysler Group. 
 Orbitz Worldwide, Chicago, which shifted its creative account in June to Trailer Park, Hollywood, Calif., from Mullen, Boston, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, placed the assignment in review and invited those two agencies to take part. Spending was estimated at $60 million. The review came after the arrival at Orbitz last month of a new vice president for brand marketing, Deborah Italiano. 
 The Sun Products Corporation, Wilton, Conn., chose Mindshare, New York, part of the GroupM division of WPP, as its media agency of record, handling planning and buying for brands like All, Snuggle, Sunlight and Wisk. Spending was not disclosed. Mindshare had previously handled those duties on an interim basis after Sun acquired the North American fabric-care business of Unilever; Mindshare had been the media agency for that business, which included brands like All, Snuggle and Wisk.
 The Lescoja Corporation, Marana, Ariz., which makes men's skin-care products, named Unit 7, New York, part of the Omnicom Group, to handle digital tasks like the introduction of a Web site for the Matte for Men line (matteformen.com). Spending was not disclosed.
 People
 Matthew Charlton, managing director of the Amsterdam office of Modernista, Boston, was named worldwide president of the agency as the Amsterdam office was closed. He succeeds Clift Jones, who becomes worldwide chief operating officer. Also, Matt Howell, director for digital production, was named chief interactive officer, and Chris Wallrapp, director for client service, was named chief marketing officer. The personnel moves are part of changes as Modernista prepares for life after losing its Cadillac and Hummer creative assignments from the General Motors Corporation.
 John Norman will join the Martin Agency, Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, as chief creative officer, effective in February. For his first year at Martin, he will share the title with Mike Hughes, who is also president, while assuming day-to-day responsibility for the creative department; Mr. Hughes will subsequently continue as president. Mr. Norman had been executive creative director at the Amsterdam office of Wieden & Kennedy.
 Marc Lucas joined Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners, New York, part of MDC Partners, as chief creative officer. He assumes duties from Richard Kirshenbaum, who continues as co-chairman. Mr. Lucas had been executive creative director at the New York office of Razorfish, part of the Publicis Groupe.
 James W. Price, vice president for media innovation at Empower MediaMarketing, Cincinnati, was promoted to president. The duties of the post had previously been handled by an office of the president, composed of Mr. Price; Lynne Veil, chief operating officer; and Joseph Lowry, chief financial officer.
 Miscellany
 Catalyst:SF, San Francisco, is opening an office in New York, to be led by Cody R. Duval as general manager for client services. He has worked at agencies like Campfire and Mechanikal. 
 Story Worldwide, New York, is opening an office in Nagoya, Japan, called Story Worldwide Japan, in partnership with a client, the Toyota Motor Company, for which Story Worldwide manages the global magazine for Lexus.
 BBDO New York -- the flagship office of BBDO Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group -- laid off an estimated 20 employees, or 4 percent of the total of about 545.
 The Coca-Cola Company, Atlanta, signed an agreement with Paramount Pictures, Los Angeles, part of Viacom, to sell licensed products related to the 1946 movie ''It's a Wonderful Life.'' The products, according to brandweek.com, will come out for the 2010 holiday season and include glassware and clothing. The idea stemmed from the appearance of items carrying the Coca-Cola logo in scenes of the film set in Gower's Drugs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); FAST FOOD (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (88%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); DIRECT MARKETING (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%); TRAILER PARKS (50%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (97%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (96%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (92%); BBDO NEW YORK (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); KUMON INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION CO LTD (82%); MEREDITH CORP (62%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (60%); YUM! BRANDS INC (58%); PIZZA HUT INC (58%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%); KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS INC (54%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING INC (53%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (97%); IPG (NYSE) (96%); COF (NYSE) (92%); MDP (NYSE) (62%); OWW (NYSE) (60%); YUM (NYSE) (58%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%); KKD (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (97%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (97%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (97%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS611110 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (82%); SIC8211 ELEMENTARY & SECONDARY SCHOOLS (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (60%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (60%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (54%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (54%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (54%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (91%); WICHITA, KS, USA (90%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (91%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2009

 
