

1001 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Paying By Levels Of Data You Use

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
SAN ANTONIO -- The broadband era began with the expectation that Internet connections were like buffets -- all you can eat, 24 hours a day. But users are now being prodded to think about how much they're consuming.
Here in South Texas, Time Warner Cable customers have been given the online equivalent of a scale in the bathroom, a ''usage tracker'' that adds up all the household's Facebooking and YouTubing. Customers who sign up for a light plan of 5 gigabytes of broadband -- that's the equivalent of two high-definition movie downloads -- are rewarded with a $5 discount each month if they don't go over. If they do, they pay $1 for every additional gigabyte.
''We're moving away from one-size-fits-all,'' said Jon Gary Herrera, a Texas spokesman for the cable company, which now tends to call itself a broadband company instead. 
Some of Time Warner Cable's competitors are moving the same way, slowly but surely, toward tiers of pricing for higher speeds and bigger amounts of broadband at home, mimicking the wireless industry's much-maligned pricing plans. The strategy, called usage-based billing, is advantageous for the companies that control the digital pipelines. But it may be detrimental for customers who are watching more and more video on the Web every month, as well as companies like Netflix that distribute it. Some fear that as customers become more aware of how much broadband they're using each month, they'll start to use less of it, and in that way, protect traditional forms of entertainment distribution and discourage new Internet services.
Executives at cable and broadband providers dispute that by saying it is in their interest to make broadband a must-have product. ''The exploding growth of online video usage undercuts any argument that cable is standing in the way of this business,'' said Brian Dietz, a spokesman for the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, the industry's trade group.
But some government officials aren't so sure. The Justice Department's antitrust lawyers are conducting an investigation into the cable industry's treatment of online video companies with an eye toward deterring anticompetitive behavior. Some analysts say the investigation could, perhaps counterintuitively, accelerate the move to usage-based billing.
As online video use soars, customers just want faster and better broadband service, and they complain (online, naturally) when Web pages or videos take too long to load. Kate Miller, a Time Warner Cable customer in Utica, N.Y., said her 2-year-old daughter Jane has already learned the word ''buffering.''
''Elmo,'' Ms. Miller said, ''was never meant to buffer.''
There's a clash between what users expect from broadband service and what is actually delivered to them, said Chris Balfe, the president of Glenn Beck's media company, which created an online TV channel nearly a year ago. He has noticed sluggishness at home when trying to view YouTube videos. ''As a broadband video provider it's frustrating, but as a user it's absolutely infuriating,'' he said.
Usage-based billing is seen by some as a fairer alternative to broadband caps, a term most closely associated with Comcast, which had been enforcing a limit of 250 gigabytes per Internet customer per month. Although only a small minority of customers ever exceeded the cap, it became a lightning rod for competitors like Netflix, which accused Comcast of unfairly favoring its own services.
Comcast said this spring that it would start to test usage-based billing. ''Our network is not an infinite resource, and it is expensive to expand it,'' David L. Cohen, a Comcast executive, said at the time.
Along with news and entertainment, the futures of entire industries -- commerce, health care and transportation -- are being built atop a broadband foundation. Companies big and small are coming up with ways to get faster broadband to more people; many people believe that broadband speeds will inevitably improve as time goes on, just as computer chip speeds have.
But others say that the marketplace lacks sufficient competition, which keeps the price of broadband -- a high-margin product -- higher than it otherwise would be. They wonder whether strategies like usage-based billing will worsen what is already an economic barrier for some Americans. ''It's like locking the doors to the library,'' said Nicholas Longo, the director of Geekdom, a new collaborative work space for small companies in San Antonio.
Geekdom will pay almost any price for reliable broadband -- that's a critical piece of what it sells to start-ups that pay for work space. But some of the start-ups fear that changes to broadband pricing will tamp down consumer demand for the new products they're conceiving and testing.
''If we had an unlimited pipe, there's so much more we could do,'' said Yuri Zapuchlak, a co-founder of Vidmaker, a video editing tool that exists ''in the cloud,'' meaning that the videos are uploaded and downloaded from the Internet in real time. For now, the Vidmaker software works around the limits of wireless and wired Internet access by breaking off the chunks of video that are going to be edited and uploading only those chunks.
Time Warner Cable started testing usage-based billing in San Antonio four months ago by offering the $5 discount to lighter users. Customer service representatives at a suburban call center are now trained to ask new customers about how they use the Web; once uses (listed on a work sheet) like ''Internet gaming,'' ''watching TV/movie clips'' or ''video chat'' are mentioned, callers are steered toward a pricing plan with unlimited bandwidth.
For now, unlike the 5-gigabyte plan, the unlimited plans have no overage charges. But the provider, and others like it, could change the pricing plans if many people begin to drop cable TV-- essentially making up for losses on the television side by making broadband more expensive.
Such changes to pricing, if they occur, would happen gradually and carefully, executives say privately. But they are already working to change consumer expectations. Suddenlink, a home broadband provider in 18 states, sells usage-based plans tied to speeds, so customers who choose faster, pricier broadband speeds also have more bandwidth to use. The company calls them ''allowance plans.''
One of Comcast's tests will be structured that way. In another test, customers will get a monthly allotment of 300 gigabytes a month (enough for roughly 100 movies) and will pay more for additional ''blocks.''
The Netflixes of the world are wary of these moves, though there may be little they can do. Concerns about both caps and usage-based billing have already caused one would-be online video competitor, Sony, to rethink its plan to sell a bundle of cable channels over the Internet.
Dish Network and other companies have been preparing plans for similar bundles, which could help cause the so-called unbundling of television that consumer advocates have dreamed about for decades. But ''these guys have the pipe and the bandwidth,'' said a Sony Network Entertainment executive, Michael Aragon, referring to cable and broadband providers, while speaking at a meeting sponsored by Variety in April.
Still, Mr. Aragon added, ''We do believe there's a business model out there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nicholas Longo, director of Geekdom, a collaborative workspace in downtown San Antonio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. MICHAEL SHORT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES BEST Jr./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BROADBAND (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); INTERNET VIDEO (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); PRODUCT PRICING (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%)

COMPANY: TIME WARNER CABLE INC (58%); NETFLIX INC (54%)

TICKER: TWC (NYSE) (58%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (54%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (89%); UTICA, NY, USA (50%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012



1002 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: In Mongolia, a New, Penned-In Wealth

BYLINE: By DAN LEVIN

 BODY:
TAVAN TOLGOI, Mongolia -- ''All you need to mine here is a shovel,'' said an awe-struck Indian investment manager as he stood behind a barrier, along with dozens of international mining industry executives and other eager investors, gazing at the immense coal pit gouged out of the rust-colored earth below.
Coal may have lured the foreigners to this stretch of the Gobi, but that is just part of the buried treasure to be found now that this nation of livestock herders has started digging in earnest. Mongolia has not only enough coal to fuel China's huge demand for the next 50 years, but also vast troves of copper, gold, uranium and other minerals the world covets.
While Mongolia may be blessed by geology, it is cursed by geography. Landlocked between China and Russia, its three million people face a geopolitical quandary: Every path to prosperity leads through their mighty neighbors' territory. And Moscow and Beijing intend to make Mongolia pay dearly for the privilege. 
That reality is abundantly clear here at Tavan Tolgoi. Beneath the earth lies the world's largest untapped coal deposit, only 140 miles from the Chinese border. By one measure, the most practical solution would be to work exclusively with the Chinese, since nearly all the coal will be hauled there anyway.
Mongolia, however, has other ideas. Fearing that China may gain undue political influence, the government has spent years in a diplomatic tap dance over who will get to develop an estimated 900-million-ton portion of the deposit, much of it prized coking coal essential to making steel. The two main bidders are Shenhua Energy, a Chinese state-owned enterprise, and Peabody Energy, a multinational mining giant from St. Louis. Filling out the mix are a Russian-Mongolian consortium and companies from Japan and South Korea.
Long a major donor and prime diplomatic ally, the United States is pushing hard on behalf of Peabody, and observers say the future of Mongolian-American relations hinges in large part on what happens in the final deal. China, eyeing the maneuvering by the Obama administration, is increasing the diplomatic pressure as well.
But even as the scramble for resources underscores the growing rivalry between Washington and Beijing for influence in Asia, infighting in Mongolia's bare-knuckle democracy, expected to reach a boiling point in parliamentary elections on Thursday, has thrown into turmoil efforts to forge an international mining agreement over Tavan Tolgoi.
''We're a small country sandwiched between two elephants,'' said Puntsag Tsagaan, a presidential adviser on mining. ''We can't go to war and fight, so we have to secure our economic growth through diplomacy.''
That kind of approach, however, is a tough sell for Mongolia's rowdy nationalists, who have grown increasingly powerful in the two decades since the country broke free from the Soviet orbit. And they have much to complain about. The taint of corruption clings to every government deal with a world power or multinational corporation. Horror stories about pastureland fouled by mining are staples of the Mongolian press, alongside tales of herders abandoning their flocks to work the mines. Most Mongolians have enjoyed little of the riches extracted from their land.
Which is why foreign ownership of their country's mineral wealth most riles Mongolians. Many are still upset at a 2009 deal awarding Ivanhoe Mines of Canada a 66 percent share of Oyu Tolgoi, the world's largest untapped deposit of copper and gold. Ivanhoe, whose majority owner is Rio Tinto of Australia, is hoping to open the mine next year after spending more than $4 billion on its development.
Parliamentary candidates have made it a major campaign issue, vowing that much more of the profits will stay in Mongolia this time. Lawmakers have already announced that every Mongolian will receive shares of a multibillion-dollar initial public offering for the state-owned company that runs another part of the Tavan Tolgoi coal deposit.
But without more foreign help, the mines will remain untapped. Mongolian officials say the deal on Oyu Tolgoi -- which took six years of painstaking negotiations with just one company -- was simple compared with handling the hornet's nest of competing agendas over Tavan Tolgoi's coal.
Mongolians know they are vulnerable to Beijing's near monopoly over the country's exports, being forced to accept an average of 30 percent less than their commodities are worth on the open market, analysts say. ''If China closed the borders, we would starve to death,'' said Zolboo Bataa, 34, an account manager for a multinational construction equipment company in Ulan Bator, the Mongolian capital.
Beijing has also wielded its clout to exact political vengeance. In 2002, China shut its borders with Mongolia during an official visit by the Dalai Lama, the Tibetan spiritual leader; last year, Beijing pressed the government to cut short another visit. Such tactics make Mongolians fear that China might swallow up not just their economy but also their sovereignty.
''Mongolians see what's happening in Tibet and Xinjiang,'' said a local banking executive, who asked not to be identified because he does business with China. ''They know the Chinese don't have their best interest at heart.''
That anxiety turned to panic in April, when news broke that Ivanhoe planned to sell its majority share of a coal mine to a Chinese state-owned aluminum manufacturer. Parliament finally passed long-languishing legislation that prohibits foreign state-owned enterprises from buying up a majority of Mongolia's ''strategic'' industries unless granted prior government approval.
That law marks the latest step in the complicated political choreography aimed at appeasing a rising nationalist fervor while encouraging foreign investment.
To offset its reliance on China, Mongolia has sought to expand cooperation with the United States, in what the government calls the ''third neighbor'' policy. The United States has provided hundreds of millions of dollars in aid to Mongolia, though the bilateral teamwork goes beyond the financial. Washington doles out thousands of visas to Mongolian students, and Mongolia has dutifully sent troops to Iraq, Afghanistan and even Alaska, where they train with the National Guard.
Last year, the Mongolian president, Tsakhia Elbegdorj, met with Mr. Obama at the White House and dined with the first lady. Later, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. visited Mongolia, holding talks with the prime minister and calling his host country a ''shining example'' of democracy.
The Obama administration is also focusing on economic development. ''We want to be a part of the balance of trade,'' the United States ambassador, Jonathan Addleton, said in an interview, noting that his country had significantly increased its exports to Mongolia.
But the United States is also looking for a bigger return. Those briefed on internal discussions say that Washington recognizes that Mongolia will dole out its resources among various interests but insists that Peabody receive the lead role in developing the new portion of the coal mine.
''Tavan Tolgoi is the only project in Mongolia in which the U.S. has a dog in the hunt,'' said one American executive based in Mongolia. ''What the Americans are saying is, 'We can't be your best friend and primary third neighbor if all the goodies go to China.' ''
One reason Ulan Bator may be procrastinating is that any decision will undoubtedly leave some of the players feeling shortchanged. When information about the negotiations leaked out last year, revealing that Peabody and China were destined to be the primary winners on Tavan Tolgoi, Russia, Japan and South Korea were outraged. As the complaints mounted, the Mongolian government, desperate to control the geopolitical damage, shut down negotiations until after the elections.
''We're trying to make a deal with world powers that's in line with our national interest,'' Mr. Elbegdorj said in an interview. ''Reaching a consensus is complicated.''
To further help break Beijing's grip, the government has embraced a $7 billion railroad expansion through Russia that will give Mongolia direct access to more customers.
''Mongolia is without a doubt getting more respect from world powers,'' said John Johnson, an executive based in Beijing with CRU, a mining consultancy. ''Because it's got something everybody needs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tavan Tolgoi, in Mongolia, is believed to hold the largest untapped coal deposit in the world, and international companies are vying to develop it.
 Few people in Ulan Bator, the capital, have been able to partake in Mongolia's mineral wealth. Above, prospective investors visited Tavan Tolgoi. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GILLES SABRIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Tension has risen over the bidding for Tavan Tolgoi. (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL MINING (90%); MINES & MINING (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (74%); MINERAL LEASES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); ELECTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (63%)

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (92%)

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (72%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%) GOBI DESERT (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) MONGOLIA (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012



1003 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Sentencing Ruling Reflects Rethinking On Juvenile Justice

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

 BODY:
The Supreme Court's ruling on Monday barring mandatory life sentences for juveniles convicted of murder was the sharpest indication to date of a shift in how the American judicial system views young felons -- from irredeemable predators to victims of circumstance with a potential for rehabilitation.
The change, manifest in court decisions starting in 2005, is a result of a confluence of factors: a drop-off in the crack-related crime wave that began in the late 1980s and that led states to move violent juveniles into the adult system and create mandatory prison terms for some crimes; an explosion in scientific research on adolescent brain development; a desire to cut costs by reducing prison populations; and the frustration of juvenile judges with mandatory sentencing.
Together, experts say, the developments seem to be opening a new chapter in juvenile justice only two decades after a markedly different approach took firm hold.
''What we are seeing is a very stark and important rethinking of how we treat juvenile criminal offenders,'' said Marsha Levick, who co-founded the nonprofit Juvenile Law Center in Philadelphia in 1975. ''For years we were trying to convince the courts that kids have constitutional rights just like adults. Now we realize that to ensure that kids are protected, we have to recognize that they are actually different from adults.'' 
That sense of difference has fueled the Supreme Court decisions of the past seven years -- first a ruling that barred the death penalty for juveniles in 2005; one that banned life in prison for juveniles convicted of crimes other than homicide in 2010; and now Monday's ruling that rendered invalid state laws requiring youths convicted of homicide as well to die in prison. That decision will lead to resentencing hearings for about 2,000 convicts -- some of them now well into middle age -- in more than two dozen states.
All of the recent rulings placed emphasis on research showing that the less-formed brains of the young make them less morally culpable and more capable of change later. So condemning them to die in prison, advocates assert, ignores key advances in scientific understanding.
Alison Siegler, a law professor at the University of Chicago, said the court had held in the past that sentencing defendants to death required special care and that now the justices were saying, ''Not only is death different but youth is also different.''
Monday's opinion by Justice Elena Kagan did not outlaw all life sentences without parole for juveniles but discouraged it, stating that given all that the court had learned in recent cases ''about children's diminished culpability and heightened capacity for change, we think appropriate occasions for sentencing juveniles to this harshest possible penalty will be uncommon.''
Lower courts are likely to heed this to some extent. Whether state legislatures will change their sentencing laws, however, remains to be seen. But some believe they will. Irene Sullivan, who recently retired after 12 years as a juvenile and family court judge in Clearwater, Fla., said much of the mandatory sentencing of juveniles had been an unintended consequence of legislation aimed at adults.
''These cases are a recognition of the fact that we are at a level of objective scientific certainty with the brain science that calls for policy changes,'' she said.
Juvenile justice in the United States has long been on a roller coaster. Gail Garinger, the child advocate for Massachusetts and a former juvenile judge there, said that in the first quarter of the 20th century, nearly every state set up a juvenile court system to treat children differently. But mostly, it was a cruel network of ''training schools'' in which youths were subject to the whims of wardens.
Starting in the late 1960s, she said, when the Supreme Court was expanding the rights of adult criminals, juveniles benefited and were increasingly treated like adults. But in the late 1980s, that changed again with spiking homicide rates and tough-on-crime legislation. From 1985 to 1993, as the crack epidemic spread and youth unemployment grew, juvenile homicide rates tripled. Over the next five years, nearly every state changed its laws to be able to charge and sentence the most violent juveniles as adults.
Nearly as suddenly, violent crime began to ebb across the country. The reasons for the drop-off are vigorously debated, with many liberals denying any link to incarceration rates. But William G. Otis, a top Justice Department official under the first President George Bush who is an adjunct law professor at Georgetown University in Washington, said there was little doubt in his mind that one reason for the decline was that ''the people who have been committing these crimes are now in jail.''
Still, he expressed satisfaction with Monday's ruling because it reduced reliance on mandatory sentencing and gave discretion back to judges who may still decide to put someone away for life.
''It's a mistake for the system to carve out classes,'' he said. ''You should look at each case individually.''
In a way, individuality is both the mandate and the challenge of the new rulings.
On one hand, scientists and judicial experts say, knowing that someone has committed a brutal crime as a youngster says little about his penchant as an adult. As a group of former juvenile court judges told the Supreme Court in an amicus brief in Monday's case, ''The criminal justice system cannot predict what kind of person a 15-year-old juvenile offender will be when he is 35 or 55 or 75.''
On the other hand, that makes it no easier to sentence such an offender. Laurence Steinberg, a professor of psychology at Temple University in Philadelphia, said about 10 percent of young violent criminals become adult offenders. But no one knows which ones.
''We tracked about 1,300 young convicted felons, the majority of them violent, over seven years,'' Dr. Steinberg said. ''We interviewed each kid for hours so we knew more about them than any court will ever hope to know, and we saw them every six months. We were unable to predict which ones would be in the 10 percent.''
Still, he said, Monday's ruling, along with the earlier ones on juveniles, is ''clearly a win from the point of view of developmental science.''
''We are no longer debating whether kids are different from adults,'' he added.
Lisa M. Wayne, president of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, said that as a young lawyer in the public defender's office she used to see youngsters going to prison for life and was horrified.
''Now all the research and the rulings support what we have known in our hearts to be true,'' she said. ''No judge wants to put a kid away for the rest of his life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A ward of the state in a holding cage in the secure lockup facility at a youth correctional center in Whittier, Calif., in 2004 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUVENILE JUSTICE (95%); SENTENCING (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); FELONIES (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); MURDER (89%); PRISONS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); JUVENILE COURTS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); KAGAN SUPREME COURT NOMINATION (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); JUVENILE CRIME (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (74%); BRAIN (74%); JUDGES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: ELENA KAGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012



1004 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Powerhouse Fare for High-Powered Bidders

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
BEFORE an auction of rare Italian masterworks by Fra Bartolommeo and Simone Martini, Sotheby's rolled out some rarefied Italian treats, including imported guanciale in vinaigrette. For an offering of Japanese contemporary art, potential bidders were plied with freshly sliced sushi. And for a preview before the sale of ''The Scream'' by Edvard Munch, who grew up in Oslo, there was a lavish smorgasbord of Norwegian specialties.
''I was on the Internet for two hours looking for reindeer meat,'' said Peter Marrello, the auction house's executive chef.
Luxurious trappings have always filled two of the world's largest auction houses, Christie's and Sotheby's. But until recently, food and drink were considered at best an afterthought, and at worst a messy menace to the often-fragile artifacts in the exhibition rooms. 
Now, they are increasingly an obsession: a lure to bidders and a lubricant for bids. In New York, both houses have their own kitchens and in-house caterers; Sotheby's deemed its food important enough to give Mr. Marrello, 48, the title of executive chef. To cook for special occasions, Christie's has imported celebrated chefs including Thomas Keller, Mario Batali, Marcus Samuelsson and Geoffrey Zakarian, while Sotheby's has invited Daniel Boulud and Nobu Matsuhisa.
''You can't have a bowl of nuts on the table anymore -- it has to be world-class food,'' said Lydia Fenet, a Christie's senior vice president and high-profile auctioneer. ''People want what is new and different. And it is competitive, and intense.''
Christie's spent more than $1 million on food and wine in New York last year, up more than 20 percent since 2009; during that time, the number of catered events there rose 35 percent, to more than 400, according to people with knowledge of the auction house.
Sotheby's officials said their expenditures were roughly comparable, though they declined to separate food and drink spending from marketing costs. Attendance at the house's 300 catered events in 2011 was up 20 percent over the previous year.
''Our clients are more knowledgeable and passionate about food, and now you have to do something that no one else can do,'' said Lisa Dennison, the chairwoman of Sotheby's North and South America, adding that she is so obsessed with food herself that she regularly blogs on the company's Web site about hot new restaurants as well as art.
Cuisine is an increasingly vital component of marketing in this secretive world because ''food and drink make an auction into an event and not just a sale,'' said Arlan Ettinger, president of Guernsey's auction house in Manhattan. And the traditional buyer's commission of more than 10 percent to the auction houses can support a high level of fare.
The new excitement about food has been driven, auction executives say, by a number of forces: the slow uptick in the economy, the continued strength of the luxury market, the increasing globalization of bidders and the trend toward buying trophies like art and jewelry as investments. Meanwhile, there is ''a constant evolution in the sophistication'' of clients' palates, said Erin McAndrew, a Christie's vice president.
One collector said what auction houses would not. ''Food and wine put you in the mood to buy,'' said Joseph Rescigno, an opera conductor and devoted wine collector. ''How much you buy can depend on how much you drink,'' he said with a laugh, adding that he had attended so many wine auctions that ''I should get a frequent-drinker discount.''
At Christie's recent Green Auction for nonprofit environmental groups, Ms. Fenet was well on her way to coaxing $600,000 in bids from a crowd of 350. ''Look now,'' she said, teasing a shy audience. ''If you need a drink, why, you can just run back to the bar, and nobody will hold it against you.''
Indeed, the organic 2010 reduced-sulfite Frey sauvignon blanc was flowing freely. The foie gras crostini provided by the restaurant Rouge Tomate were fast disappearing. Moments later, Ms. Fenet lowered the hammer, selling a weekend scuba-diving jaunt for $14,000.
That is not to suggest that a square of salmon tartare on ciabatta, or a sip of Bordeaux, catapulted the April jewelry sales at Christie's to $70.7 million. But ''food is paramount because you want to know that the auction house has made a commitment,'' said Mark Schwarz, a securities lawyer, as he attended a recent auction there. ''It speaks to the importance of the event.''
Food and drink are served most often at preview parties or dinners to drum up interest, rather than at the auctions themselves. Just a few years ago, the standard offerings were those same old hors d'oeuvres hauled out at most garden-variety receptions and cocktail mixers.
That no longer suffices. ''When the food is extremely sparse, people resent that -- and loudly complain,'' said Ken Rosen, a real estate lawyer who was sampling the fare at a Christie's auction on a recent evening.
In the old days, auction houses would hold a one-size-fits-all bash for collectors at all levels, ''so we'd have 700 people at the party before our Impressionist sale,'' said Michael Moore, director of special events at Sotheby's North America.
But now, busy auction weeks are a whirl of precisely targeted breakfasts, lunches, brunches, afternoon teas, cocktail receptions and seated dinners for anywhere from 10 to 300 potential bidders -- not to mention the charity receptions, ''where 1,500 people come through,'' said Mary Giuliani, whose events company has been Christie's in-house caterer for two years.
Ms. Fenet said the smaller meals were part of a ''more bespoke'' approach. ''Our clients can enjoy the company of like-minded collectors,'' she said, ''since a small dinner is infinitely more powerful for quality time.''
For auction houses and bidders, the intimate dinner is as good as it gets.
Charles Thomas Curtis, a Christie's Americas vice president who heads wine sales, trained at Le Cordon Bleu in Paris and once cooked at the Crillon Hotel there. He enjoys preparing private preview dinners for gatherings of 12 to 16 clients. ''I do the menu and all the cooking, and then we talk about wines and food,'' he said. ''It's a lovely way to spend an evening.''
The proximity of soon-to-be-auctioned art, which is often displayed on the dining room walls, can be powerfully affecting. ''The food here is excellent,'' said Leonard Lauder, a chairman of the Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Foundation auction held at Sotheby's. ''But don't you think the presence of the art on these walls enhances the food greatly?''
The two auction houses would not reveal their food spending for the average customer, but people with knowledge of the houses' catering operations said a sit-down dinner could cost $100 to $200 a person, as well as $15 to $30 for alcoholic beverages; catered buffets cost $50 to $75 a person for lunch, and $75 to $100 for dinner.
At peak times, Ms. Giuliani has catered 10 to 15 events a day using a flexible staff of 60 to 70 employees on call. ''You can't repeat yourself, because a lot of people come back,'' she said. So her staff is updating menus with items like Korean beef tacos and mini black-bean burgers with guacamole and salsa.
The catering staff is trained to work with fanatical caution in proximity to auctionable artworks in the dining rooms. ''No one wants to be the server who splashed something on the Botero,'' said Liz Neumark, chief executive of Great Performances, Sotheby's in-house caterer for eight years.
Though food and drink aren't ordinarily served during auctions, wine sales are the great exception. ''Food and wine make it more pleasurable, and help people to stay'' during lengthy bidding, said Jamie Ritchie, head of the Sotheby's wine department.
At a recent 654-lot wine auction at Christie's that ran nearly six hours, the 10 a.m. bidders encountered ranks of sliced melon, heaps of croissants, mounds of smoked salmon and pots of marmalade. By noon the buffet table had been reset with trays of sandwiches, including an onion ficelle rich with prime rib, as well as salads and sides like fingerling potatoes with haricots vert and black olives. Bidders washed it all down with Taittinger Cuvee Prestige.
Playfulness is increasingly on the preview menu. For last year's sale of Andy Warhol's ''Self-Portrait'' for $38.4 million, servers at Christie's wore Warhol-style wigs. The November auction of ''Tomato Head (Green)'' by the artist Paul McCarthy, which sold for $4.6 million, offered tomato treats, including mini grilled-cheese-and-tomato sandwiches. At a February event at Sotheby's to promote the memoir ''Ali in Wonderland'' by the comedian Ali Wentworth, cocktails were served in Lewis Carroll-inspired teacups, and snacks in Mad Hatter top hats.
Bite size rules. ''If it's big and greasy, you can't socialize,'' said Victoria Wallace, director of operations for Tamsen Z, a jeweler that donated diamond earrings for the Green Auction.
Graydon Carter, editor of Vanity Fair and an owner of the Waverly Inn, was cruising the food at Christie's during a recent auction. He pounced on a four-inch-long black spoon adorned with a glistening dollop of cow's milk ricotta gnudi, ramp pesto and Meyer lemon. He popped it, then nodded. ''Good,'' he said. ''Good little food.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A LURE: At a Sotheby's presale dinner, a first course with spring vegetables. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RACHEL BARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
NOT JUST A SALE: Above, hors d'oeuvres are spread out at an auction at Christie's. Right, readying a first course of yellowfin tuna for a dinner at Sotheby's. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RACHEL BARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); ART DEALERS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CATERING SERVICES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CELEBRITIES (66%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%); CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); GUERNSEY'S (50%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: JEFFREY M ETTINGER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORWAY (88%); SOUTH AMERICA (66%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1005 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: A Rat Pack Of Reviewers

BYLINE: By JULIA MOSKIN

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS
''THE food industry and the sex industry have a lot in common,'' Al Mancini, the restaurant critic for Las Vegas CityLife, told me over pork buns on a recent blindingly bright morning.
He should know. Mr. Mancini has been reviewing restaurants here for 10 years, but his first writing job was reviewing strip clubs, a feat he pulled off elegantly in serious columns evaluating establishments that the ''entertainment'' columns in most cities tend to ignore.
Mr. Mancini is not a typical restaurant critic, but of course Las Vegas is not a typical restaurant city. Brooklyn residents are incensed at the mere prospect of a Hooters in their borough. Here, when the popular former mayor Oscar Goodman decided to open (yet another) steakhouse, he gave it the name Oscar's Beef-Booze-Broads.
The city has been engaged in a high-stakes restaurant arms race since it welcomed Spago 20 years ago. Money, entertainment and food are uniquely entwined here, and even the city's dozen or so food writers can barely keep up. 
Feeding the city's tourists -- who will number 40 million this year, according to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority -- is a vast endeavor. Restaurants on the Strip alone employ about 35,000 people, and in Clark County over all, upward of $8 billion was spent in restaurants last year, said Brian Gordon of Applied Analysis, a Nevada economic analysis firm.
This translates into ever more spectacular dining rooms, themed restaurants (last year's opening of Lynyrd Skynyrd BBQ and Beer inspired feverish coverage) and culinary concepts like China Poblano, the delicious Mexican-Chinese meditation that the chef Jose Andres opened last year. And because most restaurants on the Strip are owned by hotel casinos, the writers must navigate among the competitors and their publicity teams, who dole out access as carefully as truffle shavings.
''We are big fish in a small but well-stocked pond,'' said John Curtas, a lawyer who was the longtime food critic for Nevada Public Radio and now writes at the Web site Eating Las Vegas.
They are wooed with press dinners, celebrity-studded opening parties and a veritable avalanche of perks and free food. ''There is no such thing as an anonymous food critic in Las Vegas,'' said Max Jacobson, who worked at The Los Angeles Times food section before moving here in 1999; he now writes for Vegas Seven.
The restaurant reporter for The Las Vegas Sun is the hardly anonymous Robin Leach, who was the host of ''Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous.'' Mr. Mancini is almost as conspicuous as Mr. Leach, though he writes for an alternative weekly that suits his mohawk, tattoos, chin beard and the skull-print T-shirts he wears (under nattily tailored suits, when the location demands it).
Mr. Mancini, Mr. Curtas and Mr. Jacobson are collaborators on a lively and smart guide to the city, ''Eating Las Vegas: The 50 Essential Restaurants.'' The three rarely agree about anything, but they have managed to produce two annual editions.
When Mr. Mancini arrived on the scene, his hair configurations, his previous column and his lack of fine-dining experience made him both conspicuous and unpopular among other writers. ''You can't be anonymous if the way you look is designed to attract attention,'' said Heidi Knapp Rinella, the critic for the city's newspaper of record, The Las Vegas Review-Journal, who says she eats anonymously and does not attend press dinners or accept free meals.
(Mr. Mancini, for his part, says that since The Review-Journal has failed to review important new arrivals like Twist by Pierre Gagnaire and Restaurant Guy Savoy, the newspaper has lost credibility as a restaurant arbiter.)
Mr. Curtas, a lawyer, belongs to the old school of restaurant criticism, which dictates that a certain amount of high-end culinary experience is a necessary education. Mr. Jacobson has traveled widely, speaks numerous languages (including Japanese, Finnish, French, Italian and Cantonese), and has been writing about food for 30 years.
Neither man greeted Mr. Mancini with open arms. The three argued constantly (as they still do) about whether the best tapas in the city are at Jaleo or Julian Serrano, about whether Alain Ducasse's restaurant Mix is ''one of the most dramatic restaurants in the world'' (Mr. Curtas) or ''absolutely horrible'' (Mr. Mancini), and about which restaurants operate to serve the casino's owners rather than its customers.
The book is a remarkably frank distillation of those arguments. Its first section is devoted to the top 10 restaurants in the city, anointed by mutual agreement of all three writers. The next section profiles another 40 favored institutions, with an occasional note of dissent. And another section, ''Vetoes,'' includes some truly strident arguments over restaurants that were nominated by at least one member of the group but smacked down by another. Vetoes are allowed to be unreasonable (''from personal gripes to grand philosophical arguments''), but the reasons must be put in writing.
For example, Mr. Mancini is a fan of the food at Bratalian, where the kitchen is run by Carla Pellegrino, one of the city's few female chefs. She came to the city to open the Las Vegas branch of Rao's, her family's business, and Mr. Mancini says the restaurant has ''top-notch ingredients and spot-on execution'' of classic Neapolitan food.
But in his veto essay, Mr. Curtas wrote, ''Italian-American food is as overdone as Joan Rivers's face, and Vegas needs another version of this food like I need another ex-wife.'' (He has three.)
Mr. Mancini, 44, graduated from Brooklyn Law School in 1995. During his 10 years in New York, he tended bar at the short-lived CBGB's Pizza, saving up to explore ethnic restaurants and, occasionally, luxurious spots like Daniel. He moved to Las Vegas to cover the city for ABC News and was looking for more work when he was offered the strip-club column in Las Vegas Weekly.
He has taken pains to educate himself about haute cuisine (learning to appreciate the truffle artichoke soup at Guy Savoy helped, he says) but firmly believes that hospitality is hospitality, whether at a Michelin-starred restaurant or a strip club. ''As a guest, it's the establishment's job to make you feel comfortable, well taken care of and pretend that they are not just after your wallet,'' he said.
When he was working the lap-dance beat, Mr. Mancini usually took along his wife, Sue; they've been together for 26 years, since attending high school together in Haddon Township, N.J. He felt it was important to evaluate how his wife was welcomed; whether the club hired women who looked diverse (on many fronts: skin and hair color, breast size, tattoos and piercings) or only busty blondes; whether the liquor was watered down; and, as he put it, ''how hard the hustle was.''
In Las Vegas, the hustle is hard even at a place like Twist, in the Mandarin Oriental, although it takes different forms. The glassware and porcelain are extraordinary, the number of amuse-bouches overwhelming, the seafood flown in from Maine and Marseille.
At most Strip restaurants, the notion that local ingredients can be as prestigious as Sevruga caviar and Santa Barbara shrimp has not taken hold. ''As a city, we are behind the curve compared to an Austin, Tex., or a Portland, Ore.,'' said Dominic Scali, who chronicles the scene on Facebook and Twitter as The Vegas Foodie and has worked in many kitchens here.
Las Vegas is not surrounded by farmland like those cities, but a few chefs, notably Doug Taylor, the pastry chef of the three Batali-Bastianich restaurants in the Palazzo, are incorporating the desert's fruits into the food. ''Anything that grows in the Middle East -- almonds, plums, dates, onions, pomegranates -- we can grow here,'' he said.
But ''if God wanted shrimp in the desert, she would have put them there,'' Mr. Curtas joked over a remarkable tartare of prime beef, ahi tuna, clams and cuttlefish, served at Twist under a crisp slice of daikon radish marinated in Campari.
Mr. Mancini, although (or perhaps because) he is new to the beat, has a more solemn perspective than his co-authors have: he seems more interested in carbon footprints than wine vintages. Defying the city's public relations army, he wrote an expose of how many hotels on the Strip covertly stash and serve the illegal ingredient shark's fin.
With his tattoos and night-owl habits, he has bonded with renegade chefs like Jolene Mannina, who runs a late-night food-truck gathering that draws off-duty cooks into cooking competitions. And like Sheridan Su, who has cooked alongside some of the biggest names on the Strip (David Myers, Joel Robuchon), but whose kitchen now consists of two burners and a refrigerator in a salon in a strip mall. It is dedicated to reproducing the stuffed Taiwanese buns he grew up on in Los Angeles's Chinatown.
''I needed a break from the Strip,'' he said. Young chefs like Mr. Su move around at dizzying speed on the Strip -- partly, Mr. Scali said, because of the constant influx of new steakhouses, where few chefs with ambition stay for long.
Mr. Mancini is modest, thoughtful and soft-spoken by daylight, not the raging punk whom publicists seem to fear. The most radical thing about him may be that although he is a Las Vegas food writer, he is not a fan of steak.
''I like steak, but it's not interesting,'' he said on the way to another salon, to get fresh stripes for his mohawk. ''I always go for interesting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DINERS CLUB: From left, the restaurant critics Al Mancini, John Curtas and Max Jacobson at China Poblano. They collaborate on a dining guide to the city, ''Eating Las Vegas: The 50 Essential Restaurants.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
JACOB KEPLER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(D1)
 SORTING IT OUT: From left, John Curtas, Al Mancini and Max Jacobson employ different styles (and dress codes). (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); THEME RESTAURANTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (71%); MEDITATION (70%); LAWYERS (66%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Eating Las Vegas: The 50 Essential Restaurants (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1006 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Money Market Industry's Resistance May Hurt Companies

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff is a professor of law and finance at Ohio State University. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow @StevenDavidoff on Twitter.

 BODY:
Money market funds are what investors use to earn a few tenths of a percentage point of interest.
Yet in such a quiet, if not boring, corner of the financial products universe, a ferocious battle is being fought between the industry and regulators over how these funds operate. The twist is that the money market fund industry's resistance may hurt corporate America.
Money market funds hold about $2.6 trillion, a sizable sum but down sharply from the days before the financial crisis, when these funds held about $4.3 trillion. The decline came after the Reserve Primary Fund, the nation's oldest and largest money market fund with $64 billion, ''broke the buck'' - in which the value of its shares fell below $1 - in 2008 in the wake of Lehman Brothers' bankruptcy. The fund had been left holding $785 million of Lehman's debt.
The events of that week are the impetus behind current efforts by the Securities and Exchange Commission to overhaul the market and put controls in place. The commission took a first step, supported by the money market fund industry, in 2010, when the S.E.C. adopted rules for greater transparency and required money market funds to invest in more liquid assets with shorter maturities and higher quality. 
But the S.E.C. chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro, does not think this is enough. In testimony before the Senate last week, she said that the funds should be fundamentally transformed to prevent future runs.
The S.E.C. is considering at least two proposals. The first would be to price funds by their net asset value and not a dollar per share. Investors would always get back the value of the fund, giving them an incentive not to withdraw their funds at the first hint of a loss. The second idea is to have a capital buffer that can absorb a small loss.
These proposals are intended to address a fundamental flaw in money market funds. These funds are meant to mimic bank accounts, with investors buying shares set at a fixed $1 value. The intent is for the shares to be held constant at that value and redeemable at any time. In order to keep a stable value, the funds can never lose money.
But in the case of the Reserve Primary Fund, its loss on Lehman debt meant that its assets were suddenly worth less than a dollar. Investors panicked and withdrew $300 billion from money market funds in a week. The Treasury Department stepped in to provide a guarantee of these funds up to $50 billion and provide short-term lending under which money market funds, including nine of the 10 largest, borrowed about $150 billion in the 10 days after the Reserve Primary Fund broke the buck.
The Federal Reserve acted forcefully because money market funds are at the heart of corporate finance, pumping money into corporate America. The funds invest in commercial paper issued for working capital by American corporations, financing vehicles for banks and municipal debt.
Ms. Schapiro testified that the S.E.C. had found more than 300 instances when money market fund advisers were required to shore up their funds. She contends that the agency's proposals are needed to prevent the next run.
The industry has pushed back. The Investment Company Institute, an industry trade association, argued at the same Senate hearing that pricing funds in units other than a dollar would scare off customers and destroy the industry. The United States Chamber of Commerce is also opposed to the change and submitted to the Senate a research paper by James J. Angel of Georgetown University. The paper, which was financed by the industry, contends that pricing in net asset values would require complex accounting and tax record-keeping by investors, forcing them to flee.
But the core issue is whether another run is likely. Any kind of loss by a fund can set off a run. Even if it is rare, a run is likely to happen at the worst possible time, like during a financial crisis. While the probability of such a disaster may be small, the harm would be enormous.
Against this possible danger must be weighed the issue of whether investors will no longer use these funds. Do they really care whether money market funds are priced at a dollar or have to pay for capital buffers? If so, financing will disappear for corporate America payrolls and government, as well as for financial institutions, now the biggest issuer of debt to money market funds.
But the industry argument that customers care deeply whether these shares are priced at a dollar or at their net asset value, appears to be made of fear.
The industry also ignores possible compromises. Jeffrey N. Gordon of Columbia Law School said in a submission to the Senate that it would be possible to have two classes of shares, one fixed at a dollar and the other floating, which would allow investors to choose.
The industry's logic appears to work only if investors don't understand the product and want dollar pricing because it implies a guarantee that isn't there. These days, about two-thirds of money market users are sophisticated finance investors who should easily comprehend the difference, and can adjust their investing accordingly.
The industry also ignores the costs that an absence of reform will impose on corporate America. The industry argues that new regulation is unnecessary because previous overhauls were sufficient and because the funds have been prudent, investing only in supersafe and ultra-liquid investments.
Yet as a result of these limitations, corporate America can no longer get the wide array of financing it previously received from money market funds. According to David S. Scharfstein of Harvard Business School, who also testified last week, of the 50 largest issuers of debt to money market funds today, only two are nonfinancial firms; the rest are banks and other financial companies, many of them foreign.
One reason is that many of these corporate entities are now shut out of the market and funds are not willing to purchase their paper. Another is that corporate America is less likely to rely on money market financing these days because of its inherent instability.
This is the real issue with money market reform: Will the S.E.C. proposals help financing by making money market funds more stable for issuers and investors?
The S.E.C. will be considering the two proposals in the next month or two, according to reports, and they are likely to prompt a more public confrontation. Three S.E.C. commissioners have already issued a statement heralding caution, and more than one senator called this issue a nonproblem last week, noting that only two funds have ever broken the buck.
But when you look at the facts, it may very well be that the industry is the one crying wolf. Leaving things as they are may only keep people skittish about money market funds, hurting the funds and the companies that rely on them for financing. Perhaps the industry may want to more fully consider the benefits of Ms. Schapiro's reform.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction The Deal Professor column on the DealBook page on Wednesday, about proposed changes to money market mutual funds, misidentified the government agency that pledged $50 billion to backstop these funds in 2008. It is the Treasury Department, not the Federal Reserve.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (95%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1007 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Cargo, the Terrorists' Trojan Horse

BYLINE: By JERROLD L. NADLER, EDWARD J. MARKEY and BENNIE G. THOMPSON. 
Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively.

 BODY:
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing countless opportunities for terrorists to smuggle and unleash a nuclear bomb or weapon of mass destruction on our shores.
To counter this threat, Congress passed a law five years ago mandating that by July 2012, all maritime cargo bound for the United States must be scanned before it is loaded on ships. But the Obama administration will miss this deadline, and it is not clear to us, as the authors of the law, whether it ever plans to comply with the law.
Over the years, terrorists have shown themselves to be frighteningly inventive. They have hidden explosives in printer cartridges transported by air and embedded explosives in the shoes and underwear of airline passengers. The cargo containers arriving on ships from foreign ports offer terrorists a Trojan horse for a devastating attack on the United States. As the Harvard political scientist Graham T. Allison has put it, a nuclear attack is ''far more likely to arrive in a cargo container than on the tip of a missile.'' 
But for the past five years, the Department of Homeland Security has done little to counter this threat and instead has wasted precious time arguing that it would be too expensive and too difficult, logistically and diplomatically, to comply with the law. This is unacceptable.
An attack on an American port could cause tens of thousands of deaths and cripple global trade, with losses ranging from $45 billion to more than $1 trillion, according to estimates by the RAND Corporation and the Congressional Research Service. Anyone who doubts these estimates should recall the labor strike that shut down the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach for 11 days in 2002. Economic losses were put at $6.3 billion or more. Homeland Security says it would cost $16 billion or more to meet the mandate, but that projection assumes that the department would pay to acquire, maintain and operate scanning equipment and related operations, without any offsetting fees from companies in the global supply chain. In contrast, Stephen E. Flynn, an expert in terrorism and port security at Northeastern University, has said a scanning system could be implemented in every major container port in the world at a cost of $1.5 billion, and that the costs could largely be absorbed by companies doing business at the ports.
Homeland Security says it uses a ''layered, risk-based approach'' to cargo scanning, which, instead of comprehensive scanning, targets specific cargo thought to be high-risk. But this approach is inadequate.
Recent advances in screening technologies have undermined Homeland Security's contention that the technology is not available to scan all cargo containers without disrupting commerce. An effective high-volume container screening system was installed in the Port of Hong Kong in 2005. Trials of new, American-made technology have demonstrated that scanning all containers would be feasible at many ports. The world's largest marine terminal operators have offered to work with the department to put the law into effect.
Cost and technology have never been the primary obstacles to meeting this mandate. What is missing is a sense of urgency and determination.
We recognized that the scanning of 100 percent of all cargo containers in five years could be a challenging deadline to meet. That is why we included the authority to extend the deadline in cases in which Homeland Security certified that there are at least two major obstacles relating to the availability and accuracy of the technology, the logistics of its deployment and use, or impacts to trade.
Now Homeland Security is using this authority to simply exempt itself from any meaningful compliance with the law we wrote to close a dangerous loophole in United States security. We have urged the department over the last five years to make the law a reality, to no avail. Our nation can no longer risk such delays.
Correction: June 28, 2012, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this essay included an outdated affiliation for Stephen E. Flynn, an expert on terrorism and port security. He teaches at Northeastern University, not at Stanford.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); AIR FREIGHT (78%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); STRIKES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1008 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Hatch Overcomes Challenge in Republican Primary in Utah

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
SALT LAKE CITY -- Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a six-term Utah Republican, fended off a primary challenge from a Tea Party-backed insurgent candidate on Tuesday, a result that showed the power of money, organization and incumbency to overcome grass-roots anger at the Washington establishment.
The victory, called by The Associated Press about an hour after the polls closed, all but assures Mr. Hatch, 78, six more years representing this solidly Republican state. Utah has not seen a truly close general election for the Senate since 1976, the year Mr. Hatch defeated Utah's most recent Democratic senator to win his first term. 
Although the primary represented one of the toughest re-election fights of Mr. Hatch's 36-year career, he walked into the race with overwhelming advantages. He spent some $6 million to $7 million on the race, his campaign said, and nailed down endorsements from socially conservative talk-show hosts, senators, Sarah Palin and Mitt Romney.
''I've been in every nook and cranny in the state, here, there and everywhere and met with people, answered questions all over the state,'' Mr. Hatch said in an interview Tuesday afternoon. ''It's been retail politics all the way. I guess they thought that because of my age I wouldn't have been able to do that.''
Early results suggested that Mr. Hatch won by a wide margin over Dan Liljenquist, a businessman and former state senator 41 years younger than Mr. Hatch. But voter turnout appeared to be light throughout the sunny, 85-degree day, indicating that even Republican voters were unmotivated.
Voters said they were eager for a change, but were leery about tossing such a veteran United States senator overboard and losing a politically powerful voice for Utah in Washington.
Ultimately, voters chose experience over insurgency, sparing Mr. Hatch the same drubbing suffered by Republican incumbents like Richard G. Lugar of Indiana last month and Robert F. Bennett of Utah in 2010, who saw their political careers ended by upstart conservatives.
Mr. Hatch campaigned heavily on his seniority. He argued that he would be positioned to lead the Finance Committee should Republicans take control of the Senate, giving him a powerful perch to attack deficit spending and the ballooning costs of Medicaid and Social Security.
Mr. Liljenquist said that Mr. Hatch had long been part of Washington's spendthrift culture, and criticized him for votes raising the federal debt ceiling and a bipartisan plan with Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts to expand health care coverage for children.
The conservative group FreedomWorks also skewered Mr. Hatch for months before Tuesday's primary, saying he was for ''expansive government and against economic freedom.'' Mr. Hatch, who is rated 90 percent by the American Conservative Union, bristled at the tone of the attacks and said the negative intraparty race was ''very difficult.''
''It's been painful in some ways to have people continuously misrepresent what you've done back there,'' he said.
Mr. Bennett, the former Utah senator who lost his seat at the state party convention in 2010, said the outside attacks against Mr. Hatch may have backfired, stirring sympathy in voters.
''FreedomWorks did Orrin a huge favor,'' Mr. Bennett said in an interview Monday. ''Utahns do not like nasty campaigns, and they do not like negative personal attacks.''
It is a race he will not run again. On Tuesday, Mr. Hatch reiterated that the coming term would be his last.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Orrin G. Hatch on Tuesday with his wife, Elaine, and great-grandson Jonathan Morgan at his primary election party. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN HOOLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); MEDICAID (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); SARAH PALIN (58%); DICK LUGAR (58%); ROBERT BENNETT (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%) UTAH, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012



1009 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Obama Campaign Banks on High-Tech Ground Game to Reach Voters

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
CHILLICOTHE, Ohio -- A cheer erupted at about 8 on a June evening as a woman scrawled with red marker on paper taped to the wall: the small group in a storefront Obama campaign office in this Mayberry-like southern Ohio town had exceeded the night's goal of calling 700 voters with an hour to go, despite time out for a pep talk from a surprise visitor, former Gov. Ted Strickland.
Other volunteers entered information from the calls into computers -- which voters would support President Obama, which were undecided and why -- thereby expanding the VoteBuilder database instantly accessible at his campaign's state headquarters in Columbus and at the national command center in Chicago. Much the same was happening in storefronts across the country, several hundred of them and growing. 
These are the hubs connecting Mr. Obama's grass-roots army and his field marshals in state and national headquarters, who constantly process the raw data to map their next moves. For all of the attention to television advertising, the Obama campaign has made an investment likely to reach hundreds of millions of dollars -- a gamble, really -- in its ground game, with state-of-the-art technology for demographic data mining, consumer marketing, video production and social media, including the campaign's own Dashboard social network to link, motivate and expand the ranks of volunteers.
The aim is to ''break through the clutter,'' as advisers say, of the hundreds of millions of dollars in negative television ads expected from Mitt Romney and the ''super PACs'' supporting him. The Obama campaign is trying to reconnect with the voters who turned out for him in 2008, find new supporters in groups likely to back him, target messages to them based on the issues that concern them and get them to volunteer and to vote, preferably during early-voting periods before Election Day.
On paper, the idea is simple. Voters get a call, a visit or both from a volunteer who lives in their neighborhood. An unregistered resident gets help in signing up to vote. If the voter is undecided and cares most about, say, education, the campaign will make sure that voter gets e-mails about Mr. Obama's education policies, a heads-up the next time the president is going to be addressing the topic, and maybe even a ticket to his next event in the state. If the voter begins leaning toward Mr. Obama, the campaign will encourage early voting to lock up the support.
But in reality it can be a time-consuming and trying process, as Kathryn River has learned. When Mr. Romney began in May to organize in Ohio, the bellwether state of presidential elections, Ms. River, 25, already had been calling neighbors and going door to door for Mr. Obama for six months. She enlisted her mother, Susie Burke, 49, a pub owner and former Republican, who enters data that callers and door-knockers collect.
Ms. River recalled gingerly approaching one assigned address, where a burly, bearded man was leaning on his rifle. But, she said, after her pitch she ''left feeling I'd swayed him a bit.''
After more than three years of economic ups and downs and partisan brawling, the realities of governing have dimmed the Obama magic. ''The excitement is still there because we're re-electing the first African-American president,'' said Jim Bennett, 57 (who, like the two dozen other volunteers here, is white). ''But it just takes a little bit more this time around to get the volunteers to come out.''
Getting them out is essential to Mr. Obama. While the president's re-election campaign is also advertising heavily -- it spent $29 million on advertising in key states last month -- many in both parties expect that Mr. Romney and his allies will dominate on the airwaves. But Mr. Obama, the onetime community organizer, is banking on his ability to out-organize Mr. Romney in the states that will decide the outcome.
A candidate who expands the electorate by registering new voters, persuading the doubtful and moving the apathetic can add one to three percentage points to their total, strategists in both parties say. Obama advisers believe the advantage could be even bigger.
''In a close race that's going to be decided by a handful of points, I think the ground game can absolutely make the difference,'' said Mr. Strickland, who lost a bid for re-election in 2010 by two percentage points.
Ohio has 32 Obama field offices, the most of any state, with more planned in cities and rural towns, across its industrial north and the less friendly south and east: Appalachian Ohio, home to the sort of working-class white voters who have turned on Democrats in recent decades.
Mr. Romney has 16 ''victory centers'' in Ohio, some sharing space in local Republican Party offices. Six mobile call centers will circulate in rural areas.
Mr. Romney's national political director, Rich Beeson, said Democrats ''are whistling past the graveyard if they think we're not going to have a significant get-out-the-vote effort in Ohio.''
Republicans point to 2010, when they made big gains in Ohio, including Gov. John Kasich's victory over Mr. Strickland. But Democrats and unions rallied last November, overwhelmingly winning the repeal of Mr. Kasich's signature measure curbing labor rights.
''The election in 2010 made for more spirit now,'' said Jackie Thomas, a 58-year-old nurse who volunteers in an Obama field office near Cleveland.
Chris Redfern, the Ohio Democratic Party chairman, said he saw ''a huge opportunity'' for Democrats to recapture blue-collar voters from among police officers and firefighters angered by the Republicans' anti-union actions and budget cuts, and from an estimated 825,000 workers at auto plants and suppliers -- one in eight voters -- helped by the industry's rescue.
Like others, the Obama campaign's Chillicothe office is headed by a paid field organizer who recruits volunteers for neighborhood teams and picks a leader for each.
Mr. Bennett is one of four neighborhood team leaders, or ''N.T.L.'s,'' for Ross County. Before leaving on the recent night, he logged onto Dashboard, which showed that all five core members of his ''Team Ross South'' had worked in the evening's phone bank, and he read six new messages -- one from Jeremy Bird, the Obama campaign's national field director in Chicago, and five from Geoff Berman, its deputy national training director.
''You can't bluff your way through being a neighborhood team leader,'' said Aaron Pickrell, senior adviser for Mr. Obama's Ohio campaign. ''Either the calls are being made or they're not. The doors are being knocked or they're not.''
Mr. Pickrell spoke in a Columbus office as the field organizer interviewed a potential neighborhood team leader, gauging whether the man had the time and organizational skills necessary to build support, especially among swing voters.
''Independents are going to be hard, as they always are,'' he said. ''But that's the whole point of this: we're going to talk to people individually about stuff they care about.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A GRASS-ROOTS ARMY IN OHIO: Clockwise from top left: the Obama campaign office in Chillicothe
former Gov. Ted Strickland campaigning for President Obama outside City Hall in Gallipolis
volunteers at the Chillicothe office
 and African Americans for Obama posters at a Juneteenth festival in Columbus. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL F. MCELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Mobilizing in Ohio: President Obama has 32 offices across the state, and Mitt Romney has 16, some of which share space in local G.O.P. offices. Both campaigns say they are planning to open more. (Source: The campaigns) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DATA MINING (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); TED STRICKLAND (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012



1010 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Time for Bankers to Intervene

 BODY:
Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, have both argued correctly that the slowing global economy requires decisive action by political leaders. 
Mr. Bernanke has come as close to pleading with Congress as a Fed chairman can, telling lawmakers on several occasions that the Fed alone cannot repair the economy and asking them for ''help,'' ''support'' and ''collaboration.'' That's all Fed-speak for ''more federal spending, now, please.''
Mr. Draghi, for his part, has sternly said, ''It is not right for monetary policy to fill other institutions' lack of action,'' a reference to the urgent need for Europe's leaders to resolve the euro crisis.
But what if politicians refuse to act?
In the United States, legislative obstructionism is the approach of Republicans who do not want the economy to improve before Election Day. In Europe, a European Union summit meeting later this week will give leaders yet another chance to deliver on stimulus, banking reforms and political strategies to stabilize the euro zone. But the experience of the past two years suggests that they will do too little, too slowly.
Meanwhile, growth is faltering. The Fed now expects the United States economy to expand by 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent in 2012, down from its forecast of 3.5 percent a year ago. The European Central Bank's economic forecast for the euro zone this year is -0.5 percent to 0.3 percent growth. And that's being optimistic.
Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Draghi would clearly prefer to act in concert with politicians. But with the economy relapsing, more aggressive action is overdue. For the Fed, that means renewed quantitative easing, an attempt to lower long-term borrowing rates and spur demand by creating money with which to purchase bonds. To send the message that help will be provided as long as the economy remains weak, a bond-buying program or other support should be tied to specific goals for lower unemployment, higher inflation or stronger overall growth.
The European Central Bank can start with the obvious: cutting its benchmark interest rate below 1 percent, coupled with resurrecting its own moribund bond-buying program. The growth and inflation that could result from these measures would help to counteract the ills unleashed by excessive and premature fiscal austerity.
In recent Congressional testimony on growth and jobs, Mr. Bernanke again told lawmakers that the Fed could not fix the economy on its own. ''I'd feel much more comfortable if Congress would take some of this burden from us and address these issues,'' he said. We all would. Likewise, people in Europe surely expect more from their political leaders, though such expectations have gone unmet. The European Central Bank policy setters meet next week. The Fed meets again at the end of July. It's past time for them to take stronger action.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); INTEREST RATES (62%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012



1011 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Obama Calls Romney Possible 'Outsourcer in Chief'

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and ASHLEY PARKER; Helene Cooper reported from Atlanta, and Ashley Parker from Salem, Va.

 BODY:
ATLANTA -- President Obama escalated his campaign's latest line of attack on Mitt Romney's business career on Tuesday, telling audiences at a series of fund-raising events that when it came to job creation, the former Massachusetts governor excelled more at creating them overseas than in America.
A news article last week about how Mr. Romney's old private equity firm moved jobs overseas prompted a carefully parsed response from the Romney camp. Seeking to capitalize on it, Mr. Obama -- and a team of campaign aides, operatives and surrogates -- took to the airwaves, microphones and the Internet to call his rival out of touch. 
At a fund-raiser in Atlanta, Mr. Obama derided Mr. Romney's advisers for trying to distinguish between ''off-shoring'' and outsourcing. The president added cheerfully, ''I'm not kidding, that's what they said.''
As the audience laughed, he delivered his punch line: ''Those workers who lost their jobs, they don't know the difference.''
Over in the Romney camp, the response was swift and scathing. ''If President Obama had even half of Mitt Romney's record on jobs, he'd be running on it,'' Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, said in an e-mail statement. ''But President Obama has the worst record on jobs and the economy of any president in modern history, which is why he is running a campaign based on distractions, not solutions.''
Mr. Romney has been hurt by this line of attack in the past. During the early nominating contests, he struggled against criticisms like these on his record at Bain Capital, the private equity firm he co-founded.
Romney aides vigorously dispute many of the assertions published in The Washington Post, which called Bain Capital ''pioneers'' of outsourcing, and are meeting with the newspaper on Wednesday to ask for a retraction. The campaign has said the ''fundamentally flawed'' article failed to distinguish between jobs outsourced to companies within America, jobs sent overseas and jobs created overseas.
Privately, Romney aides said they were not too worried about the assaults on Bain. Their plan is to welcome any discussion that deals with Mr. Romney's business background, and simply refocus the conversation on what they believe is his strength: that his time in the private sector has prepared him to fix the economy.
''The backhanded side of this is a compliment -- that Romney's business acumen and history is relevant and is a legitimate credential,'' said an adviser, speaking on the condition of anonymity in order to talk more freely about the campaign's internal thinking. ''They're saying that his business background is something you ought to pay attention to, and on that level, we like it.''
But the Obama campaign seems to be scenting blood on the outsourcing issue, and Obama aides were hard at work calling attention to it. In Waterloo, Iowa, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. called Mr. Romney ''a job creator -- in Singapore. And China. And India.'' His remarks were quickly posted on Twitter by the Obama campaign. Mr. Biden's attack prompted a quick rebuke from the Romney campaign, which sent an e-mail to reporters saying that Mr. Biden was trying to ''distract voters from the president's disastrous economic record.''
The Obama campaign also unveiled new TV ads in three swing states, which accuse Mr. Romney of being a possible ''Outsourcer in Chief.''
Two of the 30-second ads, showing in Iowa and Virginia, focus on the Washington Post article. The third ad, in Ohio, takes a page out of Mr. Romney's playbook by demonizing China, much as Mr. Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, has been doing.
''Romney's never stood up to China,'' the ad says. ''All he's done is send them our jobs.''
Mr. Obama was closing out a two-day, high-intensity fund-raising swing that took him to four states and that should raise up to $5 million, aides said. In Atlanta, he attended two fund-raisers before flying to Miami for two more, including one featuring the Latin music star Marc Anthony. But even as Mr. Obama was hauling in the cash to Democratic coffers, he warned Democrats that they were facing a fund-raising behemoth in the form of Republican ''super PAC'' donations.
At one event, the president began, ''You've got Mr. Romney,'' only to be interrupted by boos.
''No,'' Mr. Obama continued, as if he did not like the idea of people booing the man he was about to criticize, ''Mr. Romney is a patriotic American, he's got a beautiful family, he's been very successful all his life.''
Then, having dispensed with the perfunctory praise, Mr. Obama launched into all the reasons not to vote for Mr. Romney.
Mr. Romney, appearing Tuesday in Salem, Va., kept the focus on the president's record, and offered a preview of his likely responses when the Supreme Court rules later in the week on Mr. Obama's health care law.
''If Obamacare is not deemed constitutional, then the first three and a half years of this president's term will have been wasted on something that has not helped the American people,'' Mr. Romney said. ''If it is deemed to stand, then I'll tell you one thing: We're going to have a president, and I'm that one, that's going to get rid of Obamacare. We're going to stop it on Day 1.''
This has been one of Mr. Romney's most reliable applause lines, and his comments underscored that he plans to attack Mr. Obama on health care, regardless of the court's ruling.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama tried to place an order on Tuesday at the Varsity in Atlanta, one stop in a two-day, four-state campaign blitz. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mitt Romney leaving a campaign rally on Tuesday in Salem, Va., where he attacked the president's health care law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OFFSHORING (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); DISMISSALS (72%); HISTORY (64%)

COMPANY: BAIN CAPITAL LLC (57%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2012



1012 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: At News Corp., A Plan to Sever Publishing Arm

BYLINE: By AMY CHOZICK and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
After years of defending its financially underperforming newspapers, News Corporation is now in talks to break up the company and sever its publishing assets, like The Wall Street Journal, The Times of London and The New York Post, from its lucrative entertainment units.
The spinoff proposal will be reviewed by the News Corporation board on Wednesday and a decision to split up the company could be made as early as Thursday.
The possibility signals a sharp reversal in the thinking of Rupert Murdoch about his $53 billion media conglomerate. For years, investors and senior News Corporation executives have pressed for a spinoff of the newspapers, but Mr. Murdoch, a newspaperman at heart who built his company from a single paper in Adelaide, Australia, has consistently rejected those proposals.
But as the company's cable channels expanded globally, its newspapers have become a financial drag and, in the case of its British tabloids, have hurt its reputation in the fallout over the phone-hacking scandal that led to the closing of the News of the World tabloid. 
Top editors and publishers from the company's newspapers were flown in from around the world and brought together on Tuesday for lunch in a corporate dining room at News Corporation's Midtown Manhattan headquarters.
In what one employee described as an emotional meeting, Mr. Murdoch, his son James Murdoch and Chase Carey, the company's chief operating officer, tried their best to quell anxiety and unrest among editors. They worry that the company's newspapers will lose their economic safety net without the high-performing entertainment assets propping them up.
The senior Murdoch indicated that he was tired of shareholders and analysts regarding the newspapers as a drag on the company and that he believed his publishing business would benefit from its own dedicated management.
News of the possible spinoff was first reported by The Wall Street Journal. News Corporation's stock climbed 8 percent on Tuesday to close at $21.96 a share, its highest close since 2007.
There are still an enormous number of details to be worked out in any spinoff, including exactly how to split up News Corporation's assets. One thing is certain: the Murdoch family, which would have a roughly 40 percent voting stake in both new companies, would retain control.
Restive shareholders have often said they would prefer that News Corporation focus on its entertainment units including cable channels like FX and Fox News, the 20th Century Fox studio and Fox Broadcasting. Combined, those assets generated operating profit of $4.6 billion in the year that ended June 2011. The publishing unit, by contrast, contributed $864 million in operating profit in the same period.
Over the last several weeks, Mr. Murdoch -- with the financial advice of Goldman Sachs and Centerview Partners and the counsel of Mr. Carey and executive vice president Joel I. Klein, among other executives -- came to agree that spinning off the newspapers would be the best way to improve their profitability, said one person close to News Corporation who could not discuss corporate strategy publicly.
''This is an idea everyone has wanted from a purely economic point of view long before the scandal happened,'' this person said.
The separate company would include The Journal, The Times of London, The New York Post and as many as 175 other newspapers. It would also house the HarperCollins book business and a newly formed education division run by Mr. Klein, the former New York City schools chancellor and an adviser to Mr. Murdoch.
Mr. Klein would probably hold a senior leadership position in a newly formed company, said one person briefed on the meeting but not authorized to discuss it publicly.
The entertainment company would have a similar management structure to the current company, with Mr. Murdoch as chief executive; Mr. Carey as chief operating officer; and James Murdoch as deputy chief operating officer, though a person close to the company cautioned that no executive decisions have been made.
Mr. Carey and others have contemplated how to make the publishing company less vulnerable, including making Mr. Klein's education division a part of the newly formed company. Other units like classified advertising companies and other digital assets like Monster.com, which the company does not own but has considered for acquisition, would be part of the publishing division.
The executive ladder of the separate company has not been established. But two people close to the company said Robert Thomson -- managing editor of The Journal and editor in chief of its parent company, Dow Jones & Company, and a close confidante of Rupert Murdoch's -- is a possible candidate for chief executive.
''Dow Jones is the trophy asset, so it make sense,'' one of these people said.
The list of well-regarded executives who could lead the new unit could also include Lex Fenwick, the newly named chief executive of Dow Jones, or Tom Mockridge, chief executive of the British newspaper unit News International, according to another person close to the company.
A News Corporation spokesman declined to comment on what the spun off company would look like. In a statement, the company said, ''News Corporation confirmed today that it is considering a restructuring to separate its business into two distinct publicly traded companies.''
Mr. Carey has long championed separating the companies to bolster the entertainment divisions. Analysts have said the company suffers from the ''Murdoch discount'' because of the newspapers its chairman would not part with.
''All the good work they've been doing in video lately has just been hurt by weaknesses in print, and there's no reason for that connection,'' said Michael Nathanson, a media analyst at Nomura Securities.
At a Deutsche Bank media conference in Palm Beach, Fla., last March, Mr. Carey said that in the company ''certainly there are a number of parties who feel -- would push to looking at a way to spin the publishing business separate from the rest.''
He later clarified that he was referring to investors and not News Corporation executives, and said the company stood by its newspapers.
Mr. Murdoch has shunned previous proposals to turn the newspapers into a trust or sell them either as a group or by title, saying ''I want to own these,'' said a person familiar with Mr. Murdoch's thinking who was not authorized to discuss private conversations publicly. The current proposal, this person said ''is a logical alternative that splits the baby and keeps them within the company.''
In previous media splits, for example E.W. Scripps from Scripps NetworksInteractive and Viacom from CBS, the mature, more traditional company has lagged, some times significantly. For News Corporation, forming a separate entertainment company could help with future acquisitions that require government approval. Last week, News Corporation said it agreed to pay roughly $2.2 billion to acquire Australia's Consolidated Media Holdings, an investment company in the pay TV business.
Talk of a divided company comes as the British regulatory agency Ofcom investigates whether News Corporation is ''fit and proper'' to control 39 percent of the satellite broadcaster British Sky Broadcasting. The investigation is a result of the hacking scandal that has in the last year touched on an array of figures, including Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain (who has been accused of being too close to the Murdochs) and James Murdoch, who led the company's British newspaper operations.
''They're looking at ways to help Ofcom make a decision that is favorable to News Corporation,'' said Thomas Eagan, a media analyst at Canaccord Genuity Securities.
Ofcom said any reorganization moves by News Corporation would have no impact on its investigation. ''We haven't given any timetable on our fit and proper assessment,'' a spokesman, Chris Wynn, wrote in an e-mail. ''We will make a decision in due course.''
It's unlikely that even under a separate entertainment-based company News Corporation could revisit in the near term its failed bid for BSkyB, said Todd Juenger, a media analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. He added, ''If the Murdochs are deemed unfit, it's still them running the separate company.''

CORRECTION-DATE: June 28, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Wednesday about News Corporation's potential spinoff of its publishing operations misspelled the surname and reversed the titles of an executive considered a candidate to head the new company. He is Robert Thomson, not Thompson, and he is managing editor of The Wall Street Journal and editor in chief of its parent company, Dow Jones & Company.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rupert Murdoch, top, addressed The Wall Street Journal staff in 2007. Chase Carey, right, chief operating officer of News Corporation, was one of the executives who advised Mr. Murdoch in the possible spinoff of the company's newspapers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 BRIAN SNYDER/REUTERS) (B2) CHART: The Components of News Corp.: News Corporation's publishing business, which the company is considering spinning off, is about 25 percent of its revenue. (Source: Company reports) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (88%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NEWS CORP PHONE HACKING SCANDAL (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); SCANDALS (68%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (85%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (90%); JAMES MURDOCH (79%); CHASE CAREY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ADELAIDE, AUSTRALIA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1013 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Reconciling History and Hope at 3M's Old Home

BYLINE: By ALISON M. RICE

 BODY:
ST. PAUL -- The squat, unassuming building at 900 Bush Avenue here seems an unlikely centerpiece for a battle between the St. Paul Port Authority and neighborhood preservationists. The two-story structure is dwarfed by a former factory across the street, and the only hints of its significance are brass letters above the door that proclaim Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing, today known as 3M.
The building, designed by the industrial architect Albert Kahn and built in 1939, previously served as 3M's executive office building. Known locally as Building 21, it sits at the center of the former 3M manufacturing campus, whose 46.5 acres are currently being redeveloped by the Port Authority as an office and light industrial park a few miles from downtown St. Paul.
Given its size, structures and the economy, the former 3M site has been a challenging project for the Port Authority, which typically handles smaller projects of 10 to 15 acres. 
After 3M itself was unable to find a buyer willing to pay an asking price of roughly $30 million, it turned to the Port Authority, which then bought the land in 2008 for under $5 million.
''The impediment was 1.5 million square feet of manufacturing and office space that was structurally sound but functionally obsolete,'' said Louis Jambois, the Port Authority's president. ''The market was just not the least bit interested in this property.''
But the Port Authority, which saw it as a chance to replace the thousands of manufacturing jobs that had vanished from the neighborhood, was.
Since 2008, the authority has invested more than $30 million in the 3M redevelopment, which has received financing from federal, state and local governments, including $5.2 million in grants and loans from the Environmental Protection Agency for assessments and cleanup at the site. After a century of industrial use of the site, the soil was polluted with solvents, heavy metals and other contaminants.
The authority did not expect neighborhood opposition to its efforts, but perhaps it should have.
3M was founded in 1902 and was a major presence on the city's East Side from 1910 into the 2000s. Now based in Maplewood, Minn., 3M employed nearly 5,000 workers in the 1940s at the site, and many East Siders still feel a strong connection to the company, the site and its structures.
More than 200 people attended a community meeting in 2008 on the Port Authority's plans for the site, and they were upset to learn that the agency planned to demolish all the buildings to create the new business park.
''The Port Authority does some really terrific work, but they have a system, and it involves scraping sites and making things into something else,'' said Kathy Lantry, the president of the St. Paul City Council and a Port Authority commissioner. ''It's very different when you're doing that with an old junkyard or brownfield, versus 3M.''
Those emotions caught the Port Authority by surprise. ''We were so excited about the project that it didn't even register with us until we got smacked in the face with it,'' Monte Hilleman, the Port Authority's project manager for the office park, called Beacon Bluff, said of the opposition. ''It was very eye-opening.''
Residents and preservationists, then stinging from the loss of a local bar demolished by the Port Authority, say nearly the same thing. ''It was a wake-up call,'' said Carol Carey, executive director of Historic Saint Paul, a preservation group.
Andrew Hine, a St. Paul native and second-generation 3M employee who started a Facebook page to lobby for saving the headquarters structure and others on the site, said: ''Building 21 is a very special place, for many reasons. A lot of innovative things happened at that site, so it's not just for architectural reasons that I want them saved. History in itself is an economic driver, and with none, no one will want to visit or live here.''
In 2010, the neighborhood won a reprieve of sorts for the four buildings in the historic core of the property. The Port Authority agreed to market the structures for two years in the hopes of finding a preservation-minded buyer. But it faced difficulties because of low demand for commercial space in the Twin Cities, real estate financing challenges, brownfield problems and the weak national economy.
Enter James A. Stolpestad, a St. Paul real estate developer with deep roots in the city and an appreciation of the site's importance to residents. ''Everywhere you go, 3M is very much a part of St. Paul,'' said Mr. Stolpestad, the chairman of Exeter Realty.
In 2010, Mr. Stolpestad struck an agreement with the Port Authority that allowed him a year to evaluate the historic structures and market them to prospective tenants. That deal was restructured and renewed in 2011; Mr. Stolpestad expects to close on the 5.8-acre parcel this fall. (The Port Authority still has more than 30 acres available for sale at Beacon Bluff; it has sold two parcels already to an ambulance firm and a health clinic.)
The price? One dollar, as long as Mr. Stolpestad's still-unchosen tenants meet the Port Authority's economic goals of creating at least one job per 1,000 square feet of building space, paying at least $11 hourly plus benefits, and hiring St. Paul residents for 70 percent or more of the new jobs created.
The jewel of the project is Building 21, the former global headquarters of 3M, and the only building eligible for historic designation on the site. It has about 75,000 square feet of space, in the coveted midcentury modern style.
The original mahogany paneling still graces the office of William McKnight, who retired as chairman of the board in 1966 after beginning his 3M career in 1907 as an assistant bookkeeper, as well as his secretary's office and the 53-foot-by-20-foot boardroom. Renovating the building will be the responsibility of Mr. Stolpestad, who expects to spend about $1.5 million. He estimates the space will lease for $10 net per square foot.
The other three industrial structures near Building 21 were not so lucky; the agency is in the process of tearing those down to clear the land for parking for Building 21's future tenants. ''They are cool buildings,'' Mr. Stolpestad said of the former sandpaper factories. ''If they were in a different location and you had unlimited funds, you could rent them out. But you can't do that here because the cost would be prohibitive.''
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In St. Paul, Building 21, left, designed by Alfred Kahn, was once 3M's executive office building. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLEN BRISSON-SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); CITIES (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%)

COMPANY: 3M CO (94%)

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (94%); MMM (NYSE) (94%); MMM (FRA) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (94%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (94%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2012



1014 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: New Survey Finds U.S. Concerns Over a Rising China

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: Two-thirds of Americans now see China as a serious or potential military threat to the United States, a new opinion poll finds. Still, the survey, based on interviews in both countries, casts a rosier glow on the overall U.S.-China relationship than other recent research. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - Two-thirds of Americans now see China as a serious or potential military threat to the United States. Nearly six in 10 Chinese believe their country is destined to become the world's leading superpower, and increasing numbers of everyday Chinese believe the United States is trying to prevent them from achieving that status. 
Most Americans don't believe that U.S. media outlets report truthfully about China, and about half of Chinese feel the same way about their media. Six in 10 Americans think the U.S. government has done a poor job handling relations with China - although things have improved since 2007 - while two-thirds of Chinese think Beijing is mishandling relations with Washington. 
For the general Chinese public, corruption is the No. 1 concern, followed by jobs and the economy, a growing wealth gap and the rise in housing prices. But Chinese opinion leaders worry most about a decline in morality, followed by concerns over Taiwan, while business leaders cite HIV/AIDS as their top issue. 
These are some of the takeaways from U.S.-China Public Perceptions, from the Committee of 100, a nonpartisan Chinese-American group in New York that promotes cultural exchanges. The survey was conducted in December 2011 and January of this year, with 4,153 interviews in China and 1,400 in the United States. 
Fifty-five percent of the American public holds a favorable view of China, while 59 percent of the Chinese public has a similar feeling about the United States. 
"The two peoples like each other," said Charlie Woo, a Committee of 100 member and the chief executive of Megatoys, a toy manufacturer based in California and Hong Kong. (His interview with the broadcaster Tavis Smiley about the poll results is here.) 
But other polls this year have turned up decidedly less rosy results about the bilateral connection. A Pew survey found that just 40 percent of Americans viewed China favorably, down from 51 percent last year but about the same as in 2007. Year-by-year results from Pew can be found here. 
A recent Gallup-China Daily USA poll showed just 42 percent of Americans with a favorable view of China, with 44 percent unfavorable. Among those Americans who said they closely followed news about China, the favorability went down markedly, to 54 percent unfavorable. But more than half of younger respondents, aged 18-34, saw China in a favorable light. 
About eight in 10 Americans think a close relationship with China is a good thing, Gallup found, although six in 10 believe China's growing influence in the world is a bad thing. 
When Gallup posed an open-ended question in February about which nation was the United States' leading enemy, China was second only to Iran and was seen as far more worrisome than the rest of the top five put together - North Korea, Afghanistan and Iraq. 
Mr. Woo, the Committee of 100 member, did note that "on both sides, there's a lack of trust." Among U.S. business leaders, for example, 55 percent believed there was poor protection of intellectual property rights in China - twice the percentage the committee found in its 2007 survey. U.S. executives said corruption was their No. 2 concern about doing business in China.
The committee's survey found that the countries deemed most important to Americans were, in descending order, China, Britain, Japan and Israel. For the Chinese it was the United States, Russia, Britain and Japan. 
Three-quarters of Chinese respondents say their country is on the right track, down from nearly 90 percent five years ago. Conversely, 36 percent of Americans think the United States is on the right track - about the same as in 2007.
There is a clear indication from recent polls that everyday Chinese and Americans see value and importance in a stronger bilateral relationship, although the lack-of-trust issue remains a concern. So for a flash survey among globally engaged Rendezvous readers, what is your take on Sino-American relations? 
What are you most worried about? And what are you encouraged by? Tell us what you think about human rights in China, food safety, environmental degradation, a downturn in the Chinese economy, political gridlock in Washington, military tensions in the Asia-Pacific region - or anything else. 
And as always, speak freely.

        
Europe Slips in World Influence Stakes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CORRUPTION (54%); AIDS & HIV (54%); HOME PRICES (53%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (50%) China Daily; Committee of 100; Gallup; opinion polls; Pew; Sino-American relations; Woo, Charlie; Chinese-Americans; Economic Conditions and Trends; Polls and Public Opinion; United States Economy; China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Japan; Russia; United States; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: China Daily

PERSON: Woo, Charlie

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); HONG KONG (93%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%) China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Japan; Russia; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1015 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; mens-fashion

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Site to Be Seen | Everlane.com

BYLINE: LYDIA DISHMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Peddling luxurious essentials at kind prices, Everlane.com's e-commerce thumbs its nose at the high cost of traditional retail. 

 BODY:
Michael Preysman wants you to know that if you are buying such basics as T-shirts, belts or tote bags at traditional retailers, you're probably paying too much. Just how much is a matter of debate, but Preysman, a co-founder and the C.E.O. of the e-commerce site Everlane.com, contends that when designer labels are stitched into these typical items, the price can be eight times higher than what it costs to make them.
Armed with this knowledge - and a desire to shed light on the murky manufacturing and markup process - Preysman quit his day job at the venture capital firm Elevation Partners to start the San Francisco-based Everlane. As an online-only purveyor, Preysman aims to reinvent retail by offering luxurious versions of wardrobe staples without the sticker shock. The site went live last November with a simple (premium cotton) T-shirt for just $15, a price Preysman says even beats its closest competitors, like American Apparel.
"The Web is good for cutting costs on core basics," Preysman says. He maintains that even though Everlane's T-shirts are made in American factories and cost just over $6 to create, eliminating the overhead from a brick-and-mortar store allows prices to remain reasonable.
In addition to its threads being easy on the wallet, Everlane's minimalist aesthetic and transparent philosophy quickly drew scores of early devotees, who now number close to a quarter million. The company also caught the eye (and a $1.1 million first round of funding) of a few high-profile investors, including Kleiner Perkins and Path's Dave Morin, among others.
No longer an invite-only establishment, Everlane now peddles pared-down collections of tees, along with soft sweatshirts, crisp bow ties, Italian leather belts and sturdy canvas satchels. This, Preysman says, is another deliberate choice to distinguish Everlane from the massive marketplaces on the Web. "Online retail is a mess," he says. "People need choice, but at some point choice is too much. You end up spending six hours browsing and more unhappy than when you started," he says.
Careful editing brings only the most relevant products to its customers, according to Preysman. Everlane isn't trying to be a lifestyle brand, per se; instead, Preysman is interested in cultivating a company that is based on enlightened values. "The world is moving to this place where it's about the choices you make," he says.
Limited offerings also help Everlane maintain its margins as it continues to grow and evolve. Anticipating demand with such a short sales history is "a hard problem to solve," Preysman admits, but he notes that Everlane consistently sells out of items relatively quickly. "The average age [of our team] is 27. We don't know anything about traditional, prevailing wisdom in retail. If we sacrifice a little bit of revenue, it's O.K." If anything, these sell-throughs lend an air of urgency and exclusivity to the experience.
Yet even Preysman, who turns 27 this month, understands the need for an emerging e-commerce brand to place its goods in the hands of potential customers. So the online merchant is making a foray into a physical space, but only briefly. This week, Everlane's "Not a Shop" will occupy a storefront in Manhattan on Prince Street in SoHo.
The pop-up installation with the decidedly cheeky name will serve to present Everlane's merchandise in a more traditional setting for just four days. Though visual and tactile, the experience is still meant to drive e-commerce. At the shop you'll be encouraged to try on a T-shirt or sling a bag over your shoulder, but you will actually pay less (and get free shipping!) if you go and order them online. If you need instant gratification, rest assured that the extra proceeds are going to the designers of the concept - in this case the Principals, graduates of Pratt.
"You can teach your customer to behave differently," Preysman says. Although he says "Not a Shops" will pop up in L.A. and San Francisco later this year, he's standing firmly on virtual ground. "We are going to shut the company down before we go to physical retail."

        
Site to Be Seen | Threadflip.com
        
Site to Be Seen | LifeStyleMirror.com
        
Site to Be Seen | J. Crew
        
Site to Be Seen | LN-CC
        
Site to Be Seen | C'H'C'M

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (78%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (76%); FINANCING ROUNDS (74%); MEN'S CLOTHING (73%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%) Everlane.com; Michael Preysman; Site to Be Seen; Morin, Dave; Computers and the Internet; E-Commerce; Fashion and Apparel; Shopping and Retail; T-Shirts (Apparel); Path.com; SoHo (NYC); Men's Fashion; Women's Fashion

ORGANIZATION: Path.com

PERSON: Morin, Dave

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) SoHo (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1016 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
Serious Eats: A tribute to the late Nora Ephron (right), both a greatly gifted storyteller and a lover of food. -- Jeff Gordinier
The New York Times: Marcus Samuelsson recounts his astonishing rise, from poverty in Ethiopia to an orphanage in Sweden to international acclaim in Manhattan -- grappling with racism all along the way. "A hundred years ago," he writes, "black men and women had to fight to get out of the kitchen. These days, we have to fight to get in." ...
The New York Observer: ... Meanwhile, the backlash begins: a fellow chef, Eddie Huang, lets loose with a front-page complaint about Mr. Samuelsson's planting a fancy celebrity haunt, Red Rooster, in Harlem: "an embarrassing exercise in condescension, much like the book." -- Patrick Farrell
: An Oklahoma rancher is one of a tiny band of foreign cattlemen - and a large herd of cows -- imported to Russia's largest beef farm, to the southwest of Moscow. Their mission is to revive the beef industry that was virtually obliterated under the rule of Joseph Stalin. The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, wants to dramatically cut his country's $3 billion annual import bill for beef. Tyson Foods, a large American supplier, may not be enthused. -- Glenn Collins 
Cooking Issues: Dave Arnold, the mad genius of the International Culinary Center, on the science, philosophy and flavors of fish killing. -- Julia Moskin
Mother Jones: The 128-ounce Team Gulp from 7-Eleven? Azeen Ghorayshi charts out how 21st-century Americans lost all sense of health and style and came to be walking around with buckets of sugary drinks. -- Eric Asimov 
Shakestir: To commemorate Jamaica's 50 years of independence, the Jamaican rum distiller Appleton Estate has released a 50-year-old rum, which it says is the oldest rum available for sale in the world. Only 800 bottles were made. Of those, a mere 70 were allotted to the United States. Price tag: $5,000. -- Robert Simonson 
Elizabeth Minchilli in Rome: On kicking off a meal with a scoop of savory gelato ...
Madame Fromage: ... and if you're even more keen on throwing your sweetness-anticipating palate a curveball, how about a vinegar spritzer? -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Washington Post: Christina Tosi's crazy-sweet desserts at Momofuku Milk Bar are not only irresistible -- they're reproducible. (Ms. Tosi, by the way, says she draws her inspiration from childhood treats: "Remember Fudgie the Whale from Carvel?") -- Patrick Farrell 
The Drinks Business: New regulations from the European Union would require wine labels to list allergens like sulfites, milk proteins and eggs. Why are those ingredients in the wine? That's another department. -- Eric Asimov 
The Economist: No one quite knows why, but Vasant Dhoble, a stocky police division chief, has dusted off rarely enforced, Prohibition-era anti-alcohol laws and put a serious dent in Mumbai's once-flourishing cocktail culture during the last month. There have been arrests, blood-testing sprees, high-end bar closings and a decline in nightlife. Cocktailers are pushing back with mocking blogs that portray Mr. Dhoble as a cartoon villain. -- Glenn Collins
Bon Apptit: In this video clip, the chef Adam Perry Lang's approach to grilling looks a bit like something out of "Goodfellas." -- Jeff Gordinier 
Shine: Meet Wayne Hemingway, a designer who wants to give the ugly uniforms in fast-food outlets a sexy 21st-century upgrade. -- Jeff Gordinier
Financial Times: Fuchsia Dunlop, brilliant as always on eating in China, outdoes herself on the subject of the fermented vegetables of Shaoxing: "The tofu had a fierce, stinging, fetid smell, like old socks that had been stuffed with Camembert and left on a radiator for a week, but I thought I'd give it a try." -- Julia Moskin
YouTube: A patient and inspiring video visit with Myrtle Allen, the Alice Waters of Ireland, who discusses (among other things) the crucial link between good pastures and good butter. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Bigger Than Your Head: How do you get from grapes and yeast to aspirational signifier? Fredric Koeppel demonstrates, in five easy definitions. -- Eric Asimov 
The New York Daily News: The Rikers diet: A former inmate at the New York jail is suing the city, saying that rushed meals there damaged his digestive system; he had undergone bariatric surgery two years earlier. -- Patrick Farrell
Smitten Kitchen: Go score some buttermilk and berries. This is a summer cake you want to make. -- Jeff Gordinier

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BEEF (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (86%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (86%); CHEESE (78%); ORPHANS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); ICE CREAM (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (71%); RACE & RACISM (71%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (69%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (66%); WINE (64%); DISTILLERIES (62%); IMMUNOLOGIC FACTORS (60%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (51%)

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC (55%); 7-ELEVEN INC (54%); WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (55%); WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (55%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (55%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (55%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (55%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); NAICS445120 CONVENIENCE STORES (54%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (90%); SWEDEN (90%); EUROPE (78%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1017 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 255 words

HEADLINE: Budget Woes Prompt Cuts at Seattle Opera

BYLINE: FELICIA R. LEE


HIGHLIGHT: Beginning in 2004, the company will present four operas instead of five. 

 BODY:
The Seattle Opera says an anticipated $1 million budget shortfall this season will mean cuts in salaries and staff and a reshaping of its programming, with a four-opera season instead of five beginning in 2014. Opera company officials said in a press release issued Tuesday night after a board meeting that a difficult economy, along with a drop in subscription sales and major donations, have contributed to its fiscal woes. 
"Given the economic situation, and our need responsibly to steward the money contributed by our community of donors and ticket-buyers, we are making some changes to our long-range plans," Speight Jenkins, the general director, said in the release. "When the financial situation improves, we will move as quickly as possible to restore what we have at this time either eliminated or put on hold."
The opera says its 2012-2013 season which opens in August with Puccini's "Turandot," will continue as scheduled, and the company will produce three cycles of the "Ring" next summer as announced. But changes include presenting the International Wagner Competition in summer 2014, instead of the previously announced production of Wagner's "Der Meistersinger von Nrnberg." And it will present a concert with orchestra instead of a fully produced opera for its Young Artists Program in 2012-13, and put the entire program on hiatus in 2013-14. In addition, artist fees will be reduced and four full-time staff positions will be eliminated (two positions will be added to focus on fundraising and major gifts). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OPERA (92%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); MUSIC (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%) Seattle Opera; Opera; Classical Music

ORGANIZATION: Seattle Opera

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1018 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Survey Respondents: Mercenaries or Slaves?

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Two million Americans each year complete a Census Bureau survey that is rich with data, and they should be paid for the burden of their efforts, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
 
Economic data is valuable, which is why survey respondents should be paid for their efforts.
Several members of Congress have proposed to eliminate the American Community Survey (a survey of households with special attention to geography and housing), or at least change how the survey is conducted, because it is too intrusive. In particular, the American Community Survey mandates that, with little or no compensation, randomly selected individuals assist the Census Bureau in their data collection by answering a number of questions about how they live.
Economists and business people have recently spoken out on the significant value of the American Community Survey data for their research. The economists Emi Nakamura, Jon Steinsson and Nicolas Vincent explained how the Census Bureau data "provide researchers and the public with a trove of information on everything from the size of families' mortgage payments in Boise, Idaho, to the nation's median annual income."
I agree that economic survey data are valuable, and have used them many times in my own research. But in documenting the value of those data, economists have so far failed to address legislator concerns about survey burdens.

The survey for households consists of 30 pages of forms and instructions. The Census Bureau estimates that the survey takes an average of 38 minutes for each household to complete (including time for reading instructions), which is a total of 1.31 million hours per year for the 2.06 million survey participants in 2010.
But a few economists insist that the survey burdens are absolutely necessary: "Making census-type surveys voluntary can actually increase costs because the sample size would need to be increased to offset biased response rates." Processing data from a voluntary collection scheme, they believe, would be too difficult and would take away from some of the value provided by those surveys.
This episode reminds me of debates about military manpower during the Vietnam War. Before 1973, our government would require randomly selected individuals - draftees with low draft lottery numbers - to assist the Department of Defense by acquiring military skills and joining troops in the battlefield. President Nixon appointed the Gates Commission in 1969 to consider whether military manpower could instead be acquired in a normal labor market - that is, on an all-volunteer basis.
At first, military leaders were opposed to an all-volunteer system, referring to volunteers as "mercenaries" and insisting that an all-volunteer system would be less effective. (Gary S. Becker also tells the story that his paper "The Case Against the Draft" was rejected by the Air Force-supported Rand Corporation because Air Force leaders were convinced that the draft was beneficial.) 
It was also believed that a draft is cheaper because it allows the military to recruit manpower without paying market wages. But as Milton Friedman persuasively explained to fellow members of the Gates Commission, the cost of the military is not limited to the Department of Defense payroll but also includes the burdens imposed on those drafted and their families. By paying market wages, the all-volunteer system helps shifts some of that burden from the families with unlucky draft numbers to taxpayers generally.
For the same reason, I don't believe that the randomly chosen American Community Survey respondents should be asked to bear the burden of the survey collection. Rather, taxpayers should bear it by compensating survey respondents for their voluntary participation.
Although the official survey budget does not include an "expenditure" for the time of survey participants, survey participants' time amounts to a social cost of about $54 million per year (valuing hours answering survey questions at the national average labor compensation per hour of about $41.50).
As the University of Chicago economist Tomas Philipson's research suggests, using incentive-based compensation for survey participants -- similar to that used in many other labor markets -- could make government data not only more plentiful but also of better quality, compared to compelling people and businesses to take part at no pay.
Economic data would be of better quality if supplied, as Milton Friedman put it, by mercenaries rather than by slaves.

        
Looking at Income Class and Votes for Obama
        
Fact Check: Income Losses Under Obama
        
Inequality by County
        
Everything Old Is New Again
        
Voices of the Near Poor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENSUS (96%); POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (90%); VOLUNTEERS (89%); SALARY SURVEYS (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); FAMILY (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); AIR FORCES (67%); MILITARY RECRUITING (62%); VIETNAM WAR (62%) American Community Survey; Census Bureau; Census; Research; Statistics; Today's Economist

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (79%) IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1019 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 56 words

HEADLINE: Boogeying Off the Fiscal Cliff

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Merle Hazard, that great musicalizer of economic dysfunction, has released a new song. 

 BODY:
Merle Hazard, that great musicalizer of economic dysfunction, has released a new song. This one is a surf-style number about driving off the fiscal cliff. Enjoy:

        
What Rule Should the Fed Follow?
        
The Varying Impact of Austerity and Stimulus
        
Gender and the Polls
        
Is There a Fiscal Crisis in the United States?
        
The Limits of American Exceptionalism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%) fiscal cliff; fiscal policy; Merle Hazard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1020 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: The Financial Costs of War, Beyond the Battlefield

BYLINE: ADRIAN BONENBERGER


HIGHLIGHT: How post-traumatic stress disorder is defined and treated is an issue likely to affect generations of taxpayers to come, a combat veteran argues. 

 BODY:
Of all the issues surrounding the military today - repealing Don't Ask Don't Tell, whether to plan for intervention in Iran and or Syria, what form our role in the Pacific should take, the disturbing questions over torture and the use of drones against humans - none has more immediate and long-lasting potential for good or bad than educating our society about post-traumatic stress disorder. As evidenced by the still-growing number of suicides within and outside the military as well as violent crime by veterans, how we define and treat P.T.S.D. is an issue likely to affect generations of taxpayers to come.
Habitual ways of understanding what happens to a soldier in combat - the stereotypical quiet vet from WWII or Korea, or the gruff, alienated vet from Vietnam - are not sufficient models for our generation of military veterans. Ultimately, as we better understand the psychological trauma encountered by veterans and as conscientious and patriotic citizens develop an advanced feeling of responsibility for these veterans, we must confront the fact that the responsibility is financial, and it is growing.
A recent article by the Associated Press quotes studies estimating that 45 percent of returning veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan who have left or are in the process of leaving the military are claiming disabilities. A quarter of those veterans - 300,000 to 400,000, depending on who conducted the study (the RAND corporation conducted a studyin 2008 that uses the lower number) - claim to suffer from some form of P.T.S.D.
I am one of them - as an infantry officer on active duty between 2005 and 2012, with two deployments to Afghanistan, I encountered situations and saw things that literally haunt my dreams. This is perfectly normal; nearly all of my colleagues and friends report similar experiences. My own experience and anecdotal evidence both suggest that the potential group of veterans who could reasonably claim P.T.S.D. is much, much higher - perhaps almost every combat veteran, as well as a significant portion of all deployed military personnel who functioned in an arena where traumatic personal experiences are routinely subverted or ignored to accomplish a local mission.
Understandably, popular culture within the military plays down the significance of P.T.S.D. When one is a part of a group - especially a group that must subordinate individual experience to the goal of "accomplishing the mission," whether by refueling helicopters, driving food out to a remote base, processing huge amounts of paperwork while being yelled at by a superior - there is a vested interest in viewing one's experience as unexceptional and fully within one's emotional ability to bear. The joke in both infantry companies I worked with was that everyone who had seen actual combat probably had a case of P.T.S.D., the logic there being that it was best not to complain about it. There is also a growing body of evidence that an unusually high number of female veterans have P.T.S.D. because of either combat or duty-related trauma, including sexual assault. I'm sure those women had a vested interest in coping with their problems rather than highlighting them when part of a group.
Without delving into the details of my own disabilities claim, which has yet to be adjudicated, I can describe the process of claiming P.T.S.D. in broad strokes. To begin with, while one is in the military, or at least the Army, there is a stigma attached. I have heard people seeking treatment, especially leaders, described by battalion-level leadership as "weak" or "unfit to lead." I was lucky in my last unit to have a superior officer who had also been to combat, and was very permissive and supportive in my (quietly) seeking assistance.
Still, it was only when I was out of the military that I felt fully confident in bringing personal affairs to the attention of the V.A. And even then, I had to overcome a significant emotional hurdle in claiming to suffer from some sort of debilitating condition, psychological or no. Once I did claim P.T.S.D., I went through an interview with a mental health provider. This involved answering a barrage of questions about my personal life, family history, and a great many other things, in addition to my combat record. My feeling, going through the questions, was that the evaluation was a mechanism to weed out anyone not certain of needing help. As I consider myself a strong person emotionally, I had no qualms about answering the questions candidly - but I wonder if the same was true of others who might have had similar reservations about self-identifying as suffering from P.T.S.D.
This is important for at least two reasons. First, the stakes are high: even if one can successfully identify and treat veterans suffering from P.T.S.D., there isn't a lot of money for assigning disability ratings and disbursing monthly payments. That money comes from taxpayers, and it is a great burden for society (in the previously cited RAND study from 2007, when factoring in the lost productivity as well as payments, the costs reached hundreds of millions of dollars). Second, even in the already highly subjective field of medical care, P.T.S.D. stands apart as a subjective diagnosis par excellence, and restricting the diagnosis too much risks letting individuals fall through the cracks. The only way know for sure whether someone has P.T.S.D. is after that person commits irresponsible and or criminal acts, which create additional trauma for our society.
Among fellow veterans, especially from the officer corps, the common-sense arguments levied against veterans who claim P.T.S.D. for reasons other than sexual harassment or combat is that our grandfathers and fathers almost never laid claim to special entitlement stemming from their experiences in Wold War II, Korea, or Vietnam. If the percentage of those veterans claiming P.T.S.D. (or some earlier version of it such as shell shock or nerves or flashbacks) was under 10 percent at a time when fighting and losses were heavier, why, now, do more people claim to have been altered by war? And how could many of them come from branches that do not see routine combat - in some cases, never leave a garrison?
I feel that this must reflect a necessarily more permissive definition of P.T.S.D. Both of my grandfathers, who were veterans of World War II, were hesitant about seeking compensation from the V.A., and I've heard the same from Vietnam-era veterans. It's unfair to compare their situation with ours, because veterans now know that it's acceptable to claim support for injuries they sustained while serving in the Army, and believe that they will be treated fairly and respectfully while pursuing this claim. I think it is entirely possible that the experience of war is traumatic for more than just veterans of heavy combat.
We as a society need to understand that P.T.S.D. is not merely a complaint about an inconvenience - that when we send the military to war, even a volunteer military, we incur a serious financial responsibility to those veterans afterward. I am afraid that when civilians discover that the costs of war go well beyond the deaths and the physical injuries, they might recoil from supporting what I feel is a good and useful program. The current administration is doing a decent job of addressing the personnel requirements created by the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, but beyond that, we also need to confront the fact that the true cost of war is much higher than the politicians ever say, both emotionally and financially. The military will not ask this of society, but that's part of the problem. In this way, the nation can expect to pay potentially huge sums of money over long periods of time to veterans any time there is a war, or nation-building efforts in a conflict zone. This should all factor into talks about possible military intervention in Syria and Iran - though I fear it will not.

        
Making Commanders Accountable for Soldiers' Suicides
        
New Study Gives Scope and Cost of Combat-Related Conditions Among Veterans
        
President Obama Signs Veterans Tax Credit Bill
        
Veterans, Like Active Duty Troops, Are Hesitant to Seek Mental Health Care
        
Living With P.T.S.D. and Allowing Myself to Get Help

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (94%); MENTAL ILLNESS (91%); ARMIES (90%); VETERANS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); WORLD WAR II (73%); SUICIDE (73%); KOREAN WAR (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (55%); HELICOPTERS (50%) Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder; taxes; Veterans; Federal Taxes (US); Mental Health and Disorders; United States Defense and Military Forces; Rand Corp; United States Army; health

COMPANY: RAND CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: Rand Corp; United States Army

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SYRIA (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1021 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: Barclays Settles Regulators' Claims Over Manipulation of Key Rates

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Barclays has agreed to pay more than $450 million to resolve accusations that it attempted to manipulate crucial interest rates, the first settlement in a sprawling global investigation involving many of the world's biggest banks. 

 BODY:
Regulators delivered the first blow in a major investigation into whether big banks had improperly set key interest rates that affected how consumers and companies borrowed money around the world.
On Wednesday, Barclays agreed to pay $450 million to resolve accusations that it had tried to manipulate rates to benefit the bank's own bottom line. At the height of the financial crisis, regulators say, the big British bank reported bogus figures that in some cases had influenced a benchmark for student loans, credit cards and mortgages.
The Barclays deal, struck with regulators in Washington and London and the Justice Department, caps a multiyear investigation that yielded one of the largest regulatory penalties tied to the financial crisis. The settlement is the first in a series of potential cases against other financial firms, including HSBC, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase.
 Regulators are worried that big banks set certain rates to their own advantage, in an effort to lift profits during the crisis and fend off concerns that their health was ailing. Such benchmarks, including the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and the Euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, are used to determine the lending rates for corporations and consumers.
The Barclays settlement, which offers clues about the scope of the inquiry, may provide a template for future actions. The deal also lays the groundwork for broader reform measures that could reshape how banks report benchmark rates. As part of the settlement, Barclays agreed to adopt new controls and measures to prevent a repeat of the regulatory breakdown.
"The honesty and integrity of a benchmark like Libor is critical because Libor itself courses through all the facets of borrowing and lending in our economy," said Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the American regulator involved in the Barclays case. "Banks must not attempt to influence" the rates, he said, to protect "their reputation or the profitability of their trading positions."
In the Barclays case, regulators say they uncovered "pervasive" wrongdoing that spanned a four-year period and touched top rungs of the firm, including members of senior management and traders stationed in London, New York and Tokyo. A 45-page complaint laid bare the scheme that unfolded from 2005 to 2009, describing how Barclays had made false reports with the aim of manipulating rates to increase the bank's profits. Barclays was also accused of "aiding attempts by other banks to manipulate" Euribor.
Traders seeking favorable rates received a welcome reception from bank employees who set the benchmark. "Always happy to help," one employee said in an e-mail.
The bank also submitted artificially low figures to depress Libor and deflect scrutiny about its health. At the time, the bank faced concerns that its high borrowing rates pointed to a weak financial position. The practice of submitting false numbers prompted unease among some employees, who worried the bank was "being dishonest by definition."
"When a bank acts in its own self-interest by attempting to manipulate these rates for profit, or by submitting false reports that result from senior management orders to lower submissions to guard the bank's reputation, the integrity of benchmark interest rates is undermined," said David Meister, the trading commission's enforcement director.
The Barclays settlement represents a record for the C.F.T.C., Wall Street's smallest watchdog. The trading commission levied a $200 million penalty, the largest in its history.
The Financial Services Authority in London imposed a record $92.8 million fine, while the Justice Department had a $160 million penalty. As part of the accord, the Justice Department agreed not to prosecute Barclays.
"For this illegal conduct, Barclays is paying a significant price," said Lanny Breuer, an assistant attorney general.
Federal prosecutors are continuing a criminal investigation into other banks and their employees. And while no Barclays executives were named in the actions, the London authorities are still investigating some employees in the matter, according to a person briefed on the matter.
"Barclays' misconduct was serious, widespread and extended over a number of years," Tracey McDermott, acting director of enforcement and financial crime at the Financial Services Authority, said in a statement.
Robert Diamond, the bank's chief executive, expressed contrition and underscored the recent changes at Barclays. Mr. Diamond said that he and three other top executives had voluntarily agreed to give up their bonuses this year. Most of the traders involved in the case have left the bank, according to people briefed on the matter.
"The events which gave rise to today's resolutions relate to past actions which fell well short of the standards to which Barclays aspires in the conduct of its business," Mr. Diamond said in a statement. "When we identified those issues, we took prompt action to fix them and cooperated extensively and proactively with the authorities."
In the aftermath of the financial crisis, global regulators are examining whether many of the world's largest banks tried to manipulate Libor, a measure of how much banks charge each other for loans. Analysts say the Libor system, which was created in 1986 and is overseen by Thomson Reuters on behalf of the British Bankers' Association, does not provide sufficient transparency about how banks set their daily interest rates for borrowing in the financial markets.
At least nine agencies, including the Justice Department, the Financial Services Authority of Britain and Financial Supervisory Agency of Japan, have centered their investigations on Libor. Authorities are also looking into the activity surrounding similar benchmarks known as Tibor, the Tokyo interbank offered rate, and Euribor.
Regulators in the United States have issued subpoenas to several banks - including Bank of America, UBS and Citigroup - to understand how Libor was set. The Competition Bureau of Canada is investigating the activities of JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank and several other major banks.
Libor and the other interbank rates are published daily, based on surveys from banks about the rates at which they could borrow money in the financial markets. Currently, more than a dozen financial firms, including JPMorgan, Bank of America and HSBC, provide information to set the daily American dollar Libor rate.
The Barclays case reveals that the bank shared information between its treasury departments, which help to set Libor, and its trading units, which buy and sell financial products on a daily basis. Financial institutions are expected to maintain so-called Chinese walls between divisions, to avoid sharing confidential information in pursuit of a profit.
But when a Barclays trader sought an advantageous yet bogus rate, an employee responded. "For you, anything," one employee who submitted false rates said. Or, as another employee put it, "Done ... for you big boy."
The rosy feelings appeared to be mutual. One trader, after receiving a favorable rate from a bank employee, declared: "I love you." Another trader called a colleague a "superstar" for playing ball.
Traders even sent themselves electronic calendar notifications to remind themselves about what rates to seek from Barclays employees who submitted the figures, according to regulators.
Some of the most troubling actions, regulators say, occurred between 2007 and 2009. As bank financing costs rose to new highs after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, regulators worried that firms might have submitted low interest rate figures that underpin Libor, making their financial positions look stronger.
Amid speculation that the bank was struggling to raise money, Barclays' senior management asked employees to lower the rates submitted to the Libor committee, according to the regulatory filings. Management wanted the bank's rates in line with rivals. Senior Barclays executives instructed employees not to put your "head above the parapet."
Some employees resisted, but eventually followed orders from top executives, according to regulatory documents. One concerned employee called the rates "patently false."
"I will reluctantly, gradually and artificially get my libors in line," another person said.
Barclays statement of facts from the Justice Department

        
Barclays Chief Faces Political Firestorm
        
A Rate-Setting Mechanism of Far-Reaching Effects

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); FUTURES (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EURO (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (86%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); SECURITIES LAW (79%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (79%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%) Barclays; CFTC; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Department of Justice; Financial Services Authority; Libor; Diamond, Robert E Jr; Banking and Financial Institutions; Interest Rates; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Barclays PLC; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (59%) Barclays PLC; Commodity Futures Trading Commission

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: Diamond, Robert E Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1022 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: An Estimate for Needed Retirement Savings

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: A new analysis says employees need 11 times their salary, beyond Social Security, to pay for their retirement. 

 BODY:
Eleven times your final working salary.
That's how much an average worker needs beyond Social Security payments, from sources like personal savings and employer benefits, to pay for retirement at age 65, a new analysisfrom the benefits consultant Aon Hewitt finds. The estimate takes into account inflation and post-retirement medical costs. And it is based on the retiree continuing to maintain the same standard of living.
Delaying retirement to age 67 reduces the amount to 9.4 times pay, while retiring earlier, at age 62, increases it to 13.5 times pay, the report said.
The analysis, which examined the projected retirement levels of about 2.2 million employees at 78 large companies in the United States, found that most employees are not on track to meet the goal of 11 times pay, although many are doing a bit better than they were a couple of years ago.
Most "full-career" employees are on track to save 8.8 times their final pay, leaving a shortfall of 2.2 times pay, the analysis found. That's a bit better than the shortfall of 2.4 times pay in 2010. Full-career employees are those who have a potential career of 30 years or more with their current employer before retirement, and who are currently saving in their defined-contribution retirement plan, like a 401(k).
Workers need to save more, however, to close the gap.Or employers could provide more generous contributions. (Companies without traditional pension plans generally contribute about 6 percent of pay to employees' retirement each year.) Fewer than 30 percent of full-career employees are on track to achieve adequate retirement income, Aon Hewitt found.
How much of your income are you saving for retirement? Do you think 11 times your pay is achievable?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Retirement; Savings; Aon Corp; Aon Corp|AON|NYSE

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Aon Corp

TICKER: Aon Corp; AON; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (91%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1023 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Senseless or Sensible?

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS and GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: Brooks and Collins on the Supreme Court, Arizona and the Affordable Care Act. 

 BODY:
David Brooks: Gail, let's praise the Supreme Court! I find it an endlessly impressive institution. Here are people who disagree on large issues with large consequences, and as far as I can tell they preserve an attitude of friendship and generosity toward one another.
Gail Collins: David, I'm sorry. There's no way you're getting me to say anything positive about this court until I hear what they have to say about the health care law.
David: They are also impressively loyal to their institution. They have known the health care decision for weeks - and at least some of their clerks have - and there hasn't been a single leak. What other body could do that?
Gail: I can appreciate the desirability of nonleakage but it's never been on my list of top 10 institutional virtues.
David: It's not just the institution that's impressive. I've also had the chance to meet many of the justices and I've found them to be remarkably kind, humble and fun to be around. I was at the N.Y.U. commencement this year and watched Sonia Sotomayor walk into the stadium to deliver her address. The students bombarded her with love and admiration - she's a kid from the Bronx who made good - and she remained modest and charming.
I had the chance to talk with Justice Kennedy recently - no, not about that - and found him intellectually alive, curious and informative about new findings in physics and neuroscience.
I once was at a conference and I made some comment about a question I thought would be interesting to explore. Justice Breyer happened to hear the comment and said, "I don't know the answer to that question, but here's one way to think about it" and he handed me a flow chart of how the problem might be broken down. It was awesomely impressive.
In short, these are some of the most trustworthy people in Washington.
Gail: David, these are all great qualities for guests at a party! Also possibly for co-workers. You're pretty modest and charming yourself. But when it comes to the court, I'm waiting to see whether a majority of the justices decide to make a wild overreach and impose their political preferences on the country.
Do you remember a couple of years ago when the health care law was teetering in the Senate and the Democrats lost Ted Kennedy's seat in Massachusetts? We were conversing then and I was in a hotel somewhere. Don't remember the location but I do remember that I was typing while curled on the floor in a fetal position.
Once again, I'm in a hotel. This one's in Houston, where I'm waiting for the health care decision and prepared to resume the fetal position. If this law is thrown out it will be a disaster socially, politically and economically.
David: I'm hopeful the court will make a sensible decision because normalIy I find their decisions sensible. O.K., I'll make an exception for Citizens United. I wasn't that alarmed about it when the decision was first handed down, but I've become increasingly alarmed now. It will make it impossible to do tax reform if every loophole can be protected with hundreds of million dollars of "super PAC" ad buys. Conservatives should hate Citizens United because it protects state-capitalism, the incestuous relationships between business and government.
Gail: And you may have noticed that they reaffirmed their terrible decision this week by the same 5-to-4 margin that marks all their worst moments.
David: Otherwise, though, the court decisions seem prudent. I thought that Arizona immigration decision was sensible and balanced. They made it clear that immigration is a federal issue. At the same time they didn't totally trample's each state's ability to do law enforcement. In government you have to leave discretion to the people on the ground even if you can imagine ways they might abuse it.
Gail: Did you see Justice Scalia's opinion? It could have been written by John Boehner. Actually, John Boehner would have been less partisan.
David: But if you look over the span of their rulings, they seem quite rational. This is not an excessively ideological court. The percentage of 5-to-4 decisions has not increased over the Rehnquist court. This is a particularly modest court. It has been overturning statutes at a lower rate than earlier courts.
Yes, this is a more conservative court than the previous ones, but not a sharply more conservative court. Our colleague Adam Liptak reported on data in 2010 that suggested that the Burger and Rehnquist courts ruled on the "conservative" side of an issue (favoring prosecutors and that sort of thing) 55 percent of the time. In its first five years, the Roberts court favored the "conservative" side 58 percent of the time, though in the individual term of 2009-10, that number rose to 65 percent.
That's a difference, but not a stark difference.
Gail: Once again, David, if they uphold the health care law, I will be prepared to listen to any amount of analysis about how this court isn't nearly as partisan as it seems to this perhaps slightly paranoid observer.
David: I have no idea how they will rule on health care. The law seems to me more disastrous the more I hear about the problems of implementation. I'm creeped out by the notion that the government can order you to buy a private good from a private company even if that transaction makes no sense for you.
Gail: This is the argument that always seems to lead to a discussion of whether the government can make you buy broccoli. That makes sense only if we were, as a civilized society, required to take you into an extremely expensive public institution and give you costly infusions of broccoli if you didn't eat it yourself. As long as we decline to allow sick uninsured people to just lie down and die on the side of the road, everybody has to have insurance for the health care system to work sanely. It's a conservative position. Just ask the 2006 version of Mitt Romney.
David: I'd rather see Obamacare reversed by an election than by a court decision. I worry about the turmoil that would follow if the mandate was struck and the rest of the law was preserved.
Gail: You should also worry about what happens to the economy. I know you're concerned about the cost of health care insurance for businesses and the impact on the deficit of Medicare. The only way we get control of that is through a national health care program. And if this one goes down there will never be another attempt at major health care reform in my lifetime or yours or your future grandchildren's.
David: All my liberal friends down here in Washington are working themselves up into a pre-froth of pre-emptive rage. But I'm copacetic. I'd rather trust the court than most other bodies around this place.
Gail: Sign me up for the pre-froth program. But if my worries turn out to be blessedly unfoundedand the law is upheld, we can have another conversation about the virtues of the current court, and you will find me a changed woman.

        
The Presidential Cage Match
        
In Medicine, Falling for Fake Innovation
        
Going Negative
        
Playing Left, Right - or Center
        
The Other

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); VERDICTS (78%); SOTOMAYOR HEARINGS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%) barack obama; health care reform; mitt romney; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; the Roberts Court; the Supereme Court; Scalia, Antonin; Sotomayor, Sonia; Decisions and Verdicts; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Supreme Court; The Conversation

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA SUPREME COURT (59%) Supreme Court

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (88%); ANTONIN SCALIA (73%); TED KENNEDY (50%); MITT ROMNEY (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) Scalia, Antonin; Sotomayor, Sonia

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1024 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: Alternatives to the Mandate

BYLINE: EDUARDO PORTER


HIGHLIGHT: Even if the key provision of the health care act is overturned, there may be more effective ways to keep premiums from rising sharply and encourage healthy Americans to buy insurance. 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court is expected to decide imminently on the constitutionality of the health care act. Many people, ordinary citizens and legal experts, think it will strike down the mandate that all Americans buy health insurance.
In last week's column I posited that this might not matter because many healthy Americans would quite likely have ignored the mandate anyway. But there is a better reason for President Obama not to despair over the prospect: absent a mandate, there are other ways, perhaps more effective, to keep premiums from rising sharply and encourage healthy Americans to buy insurance.
The Obama administration put a mandate in the Affordable Care Act because the law requires insurers to charge the same premium regardless of health status. Without a mandate, it would make sense for the healthy to drop their insurance until they got sick and needed it. But if only the unhealthy bought insurance, premiums could rise sharply to cover insurance companies' higher costs. At the extreme, this could blow up the insurance market altogether.
There is another way to keep premiums from escalating, however. Rather than force the healthy to buy policies from the insurance exchanges set up under the new law, give the unhealthy other, better options so they don't have to obtain health insurance from the exchanges. 
New York offers an interesting precedent. In the early 1990s, like many other states, it tried to make it easier for the sick to buy health insurance by requiring insurers in the individual and small-group market to charge the same regardless of people's health. The consequences -- sharply rising premiums and shrinking insurance rolls - were predictable.
In some states, similar moves impaired the insurance market. Kentucky was left with only one private insurer. In New York, however, the market rebounded in the late 1990s, when premiums declined and insurance rolls started rising again.
According to Jeffrey Clemons, an economist at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, a key reason was New York's aggressive expansion of Medicaid to cover the "medically needy," which drew in more relatively unhealthy New Yorkers. A few other states also tried similar strategies to New York's.
Mr. Clemons estimated that requiring insurers to charge the same regardless of health status cut the share of the public covered by private insurance by 8 to 11 percentage points within three years. But expanding Medicaid to an additional 6 percent of adults -- to cover the relatively unhealthy -- led to an increase of 5 percentage points in coverage by private health insurance.
A back-of-the-envelope estimate by Mr. Clemons concluded that the expansion of Medicaid in many states -- taking advantage of "demonstration waivers" from the federal government that allowed them to experiment with eligibility rules -- held down premiums of those with private insurance by an average of roughly $1,700 per year for a family of four.
All of this indicates that insurers -- relieved of the pressure to cover the least healthy among the previously uninsured -- lowered premiums enough that others, not benefiting from Medicaid, could afford to purchase policies in the private market.
This kind of strategy would not necessarily be cheap. Medicaid takes a very large share of New York's budget. But it might not be as expensive as the alternative. If the Supreme Court strikes down the mandate, premiums will rise as healthy Americans start dropping their health coverage. So will the government subsidies for low-income Americans to buy insurance. The Rand Corporation estimated that average government spending for newly insured people will almost double, to $7,468.
By pushing down premiums on the private health insurance market, expanding Medicaid would alleviate some of these costs. Most importantly, perhaps, it would address the enormous social costs of the medically uninsured.

        
The Supreme Court and the National Conversation on Health Care Reform
        
Further Reading on Mr. Mandate
        
First the Mandate, Then All Tax Incentives
        
Awaiting the Supreme Court's Health Care Ruling
        
Define 'Welfare State,' Please

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INSURANCE LAW (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); MEDICAID (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Affordable Care Act; health insurance; individual mandate; insurance mandate; Medicaid; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1025 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: No Matter What Court Decides, Health Care Law Has 'Got to Go,' Romney Says

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney said that whether or not the Supreme Court deems the government's health care plan constitutional, "we already know it's bad policy." 

 BODY:
STERLING, Va. - Mitt Romney may not know how the Supreme Court is going to rule on President Obama's health care plan on Thursday, but he did have one prediction at a campaign rally here on the eve of the decision: "My guess is they're not sleeping real well at the White House tonight."
Mr. Romney, speaking to a raucous and energetic crowd of several hundred, said that whether or not the court deems the government's health care plan constitutional, "we already know it's bad policy, and it's got to go."
Mr. Romney, who already previewed his possible responses to Thursday's decision at a campaign stop in Salem on Tuesday, again offered a glimpse into how he plans to proceed after hearing the court's ruling.
"And so if the court upholds it, if they say, look, it passes the Constitution, it still is bad policy, and that'll mean if I'm elected we are going to repeal it and replace it," Mr. Romney said. "And if on the other hand, the court strikes it down, they'll be doing some of my work for me. I won't have to repeal it, but I'll still have to replace it, and I will."
Though Mr. Romney proceeded to enumerate what he dislikes about the president's health care plan and promised "real reform," he did not actually offer any solutions of his own, or an explanation of what his own plan might entail.
He also accused Mr. Obama of a "moral failure," saying that the president had poured all his time and energy into health care reform, rather than fixing the economy and creating jobs.
"His policies were not focused on creating jobs - they were focused on implementing his liberal agenda," Mr. Romney said. "There's nothing wrong with people having an agenda, but when the country's in crisis, you have a moral responsibility to focus on helping people come out of that crisis. It was not just bad policy; it was a moral failure to put forward a piece of legislation that wouldn't help Americans get back to work, and to focus the energy of the White House on Obamacare." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); JOB CREATION (67%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%) Romney, Mitt; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Presidential Election of 2012; Supreme Court; Virginia; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (78%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1026 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Candidate Blank

BYLINE: CHARLES M. BLOW


HIGHLIGHT: If this is the Etch A Sketch phase of Mitt Romney's campaign, he seems to want to freeze it the moment after you shake the toy, before you turn the knobs again. 

 BODY:
I'm not sure I've ever seen anything like this.
If this is the Etch A Sketch phase of Mitt Romney's campaign, he seems to want to freeze it the moment after you shake the toy, before you turn the knobs again: blank.
Mitt Romney wants to run as the generic candidate, the every man and any man, undefined, nonspecific, the other guy, anybody but Obama.
Romney inserts "economy" into every sentence but recoils from specificity like a slug from salt.
The Romney message is that he is the amorphous economic messiah come to save us all from the flailing of the inexperienced and ineffectual president. He can create jobs and make the economy grow, somehow. He can cut government spending and cut taxes, somehow. He can fix immigration and education, somehow. He can do a better job of dealing with the healthcare system and our entitlement programs, somehow.
But how, specifically? Just make him president and all will be revealed, too late for voters to rebel, leaving time only for regret. That is the Romney strategy: Obfuscate and delay. Stay loose and elusive. Hide in the fog until the search party passes.
This is the only way he has a shot because people don't much like Mitt. According to an NBC News/Wall Street Journal survey released this week, only 35 percent of Romney supporters say that theirs will be a vote Romney, rather than against President Obama. Fifty-eight percent say that they'll be voting more against Obama than for Romney. (For comparison, 72 percent of Obama's supporters say that they'll be voting more for Obama than against Romney while only 22 percent said the opposite.)
Furthermore, both Gallup and the Pew Research Center have done polls on the candidates' personal characteristics and Obama beats Romney on almost every measure except those related to the economy and leadership.
In the Gallup poll released this week, Obama has a double-digit lead over Romney in being likable, understanding the problems Americans face in their daily lives and being trustworthy and honest. Romney leads, but not by as much, on being a decisive leader and an effective manager of government.
In the Pew poll released last week, Obama enjoyed double digit leads on traits like being willing to take unpopular stands and work with the opposing party, having good judgment in a crisis and taking consistent positions. Romney leads, but not by as much, on being able to improve the economy.
Romney's sole line of attack is a promise constructed of vapors and held together by wishes: He led a company that dramatically increased his wealth, so he can lead a country and nominally increase ours.
There is scant evidence that this is true, but through repetition he hopes to convert wishful thinking into hard truth. In fact, there is growing evidence that Romney's business experience is littered with closed companies and outsourced jobs.
Last week The Washington Post pointed out:
During the nearly 15 years that Romney was actively involved in running Bain, a private equity firm that he founded, it owned companies that were pioneers in the practice of shipping work from the United States to overseas call centers and factories making computer components, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
According to The Post's political blog, The Fix, this was the Romney campaign's response:
"This is a fundamentally flawed story that does not differentiate between domestic outsourcing versus offshoring nor versus work done overseas to support U.S. exports," said Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul. "Mitt Romney spent 25 years in the real world economy so he understands why jobs come and they go. As president, he will implement policies that make it easier and more attractive for companies to create jobs here at home. President Obama's attacks on profit and job creators make it less attractive to create jobs in the U.S."
"Outsourcing versus offshoring"? What is that? Is one of those when a job self-deports? You can't be serious, Mr. Romney.
It is in no way clear that Romney's record as a businessman qualifies him to be anything other than rich. And yet, by keeping his positions as vague as possible and rarely answering a question with any real specificity, he can remain the generic anti-Obama option, and remain competitive.
Frustratingly, this strategy is working. Romney and the president are virtually tied in the polls. Unless the media presses harder for Romney to respond to questions and blasts him when he doesn't, the country will be in danger, if Romney wins, of gambling on what the policies of the president will be. But this responsibility doesn't end with the media. Citizens must also demand answers. It is outrageous for Romney to be allowed to worm his way out of providing them.
Romney is cheating the public out of the truth.

        
For the Ron Paul Wing, Now What?
        
Campaigns and Crankiness
        
Romney the Cautious
        
'You're Likable Enough, Mitt.'
        
The Myth of the Businessman-President

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (86%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); JOB CREATION (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); IMMIGRATION (54%) Etch A Sketch; Mitt Romney; presidential campaign tactics; presidential election of 2012; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Pew Research Center

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (67%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Pew Research Center

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (67%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1027 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: A Rate-Setting Mechanism of Far-Reaching Effects

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: The London interbank offered rate, Libor, is one of the financial benchmarks that banks around the world use to set interest rates on loans. 

 BODY:
A multiyear, global investigation into the setting of interest rates has focused on often complex trades in the financial centers of New York, London and Tokyo. But the accusations in the case have real-life consequences for consumers and businesses in the United States.
Banks around the world use financial benchmarks to set the interest rates on many of the loans they make. The most prominent of those benchmarks is the London interbank offered rate, Libor.
In setting the overall interest on loans, banks often ask borrowers to pay Libor - the three-month rate on Wednesday was 0.46 percent - plus an added amount of interest. As Libor moves up, the borrower pays more, and vice versa. For instance, America's top four mortgage lenders - Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and U.S. Bancorp - all use Libor to establish interest payments on adjustable-rate mortgages.
Given its extensive reach, it would seem critical that Libor be calculated in an impartial and transparent manner. But the opposite seems to have been the case. In a settlement announced Wednesday, regulators in the United States and Britain said that the British bank Barclays had manipulated Libor to increase its traders' profits over several years. Barclays agreed to pay over $450 million to resolve the accusations; other large banks are expected to enter similar settlements.
"It's very important that we caught these guys," said Bart Chilton, a commissioner at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, one of the regulators. "Libor may sound like gobbledygook, but it's the world benchmark for interest rates consumers pay."
Conflicts arise from the fact that banks both set Libor and use it elsewhere in their businesses to make profits.
Libor is supposed to be a collective representation of the interest rates on short-term loans that banks make to each other. The Libor-setting banks each day tell a central entity how much interest they estimate they would have to pay on such loans.
That entity then eliminates some of the lowest and highest submissions and calculates an average from the remainder. Eighteen banks currently supply data for setting dollar-denominated Libor. According to regulators, Barclays traders sought to skew Libor to benefit their bets. These trades were executed using financial contracts called derivatives that were linked to Libor.
Regulators say they found dozens of communications from 2005 to 2009 in which derivatives traders pressed another group of Barclays employees to try to influence Libor. The British Bankers' Association, which oversees the standards for calculating Libor, does not allow banks to use interest rates linked to derivatives to determine their Libor submissions.
While it might be hard for one bank among many to influence Libor, regulators felt Barclays was sometimes able to do so. In the findings for the Barclays settlement, the Justice Department said, "the manipulation of the submissions affected the fixed rates on some occasions."
Two big remaining questions are why banks still use Libor and why regulators do not appear to have pressed for it to be used less. There have been reports of its manipulation since 2008, yet the benchmark continues to be widely used.
There are alternatives to Libor. For instance, banks can set adjustable-rate mortgages using the yields of Treasuries. Bank of America, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan and U.S. Bancorp, the big mortgage lenders, did not comment when asked why they were still using Libor to set rates on mortgages, and whether they would stop after seeing the allegations against Barclays.
The British Bankers' Association is not regulated. It is conducting a review of how Libor is set but has not said when that will be completed. The group says regulators "are engaged" with the review and "will be kept fully informed." Brian Capon, a spokesman, said in an e-mail, "The review is industry-led, so the authorities are not direct participants."

        
What the Barclays Settlement Means for Other Banks
        
Barclays Chief Faces Political Firestorm

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (97%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (92%); INTERBANK LENDING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); FUTURES (90%); BENCHMARKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%) Bank of America; Barclays; Citibank; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; JPMorgan Chase &; Libor; Antitrust Laws and Competition Issues; Banking and Financial Institutions; Interest Rates; Libor (London Interbank Offered Rate); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Barclays PLC; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); BARCLAYS PLC (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); U S BANCORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (82%) Barclays PLC; Commodity Futures Trading Commission

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); BCS (NYSE) (85%); BARC (LSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); USB (NYSE) (69%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2012



1028 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2473 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Barclays Settles Regulators' Claims Over Manipulation of Key Rate | Barclays has agreed to pay hundreds of millions of dollars to resolve accusations that it attempted to manipulate a crucial interest rate, the first settlement in a sprawling global investigation targeting many of the world's biggest banks.
The British bank struck a deal with regulators in Washington and London, as well as the Justice Department. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, an American regulator, levied a $200 million penalty, the largest in the agency's history. The Financial Services Authority in London imposed a record $92.8 million fine on Barclays.
The broad investigation centers on the way Barclays and other big banks set a key benchmark for borrowing known as the London interbank offered rate, or Libor. Regulators have questioned whether the banks attempted to improperly set the rate at a level that was favorable to their own institutions.
The settlement with Barclays is seen as the first in a series of potential cases against other major financial firms, the people said. Regulators are also investigating HSBC, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase, among many other firms.
DealBook 
 DEAL NOTES
Should Germany Leave the Euro? | Kenneth C. Griffin, the founder of Citadel, and Anil K. Kashyap, a professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, write in an op-ed piece in The New York Times: "A better, bolder and, until now, almost inconceivable solution is for Germany to reintroduce the mark, which would cause the euro to immediately decline in value. Such a devaluation would give troubled economies, especially those of Greece, Italy and Spain, the financial flexibility they need to stabilize themselves." new york times
Shareholders Tackle Executive Pay on a New Front | A provision in Dodd-Frank that would require companies to reveal the difference between the compensation for chief executives and the median pay for employees has sparked a debate, The Wall Street Journal writes. wall street journal
Buffett Sings a Duet With Bon Jovi | "Finally, groupies! I've been waiting all my life," Warren E. Buffett joked, as he began a ukulele duet with Jon Bon Jovi at the Forbes 400 Summit on Philanthropy. forbes
A Novel About Wall Street Borrows From Life | The new book by John Gapper, "A Fatal Debt," is a work of fiction, but buried in the story are some not-so-subtle allusions to Wall Street. DealBook 
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Glencore's Deal for Xstrata Under Threat | Glencore International's planned combination with Xstrata faces a new obstacle after Qatar Holding, which owns a large stake in Xstrata, asked Glencore to increase its bid. DealBook 
Best Buy Founder Is Said to Consider a Takeover Bid | Richard Schulze has begun working with bankers, but he may instead sell his stake in the company, people briefed on the matter said. DealBook 
News Corp. Considers a New Direction | The New York Times reports that a proposal to spin off News Corporation's publishing arm from the lucrative entertainment units will be reviewed by the board on Wednesday, and a "decision to split up the company could be made as early as Thursday. The possibility signals a sharp reversal in the thinking of Rupert Murdoch about his $53 billion media conglomerate. For years, investors and senior News Corporation executives have pressed for a spinoff of the newspapers, but Mr. Murdoch, a newspaperman at heart who built his company from a single paper in Adelaide, Australia, has consistently rejected those proposals." new york times
Valuing a News Corp. Breakup | Breaking down the News Corporation might show that both parts of the media conglomerate -- its vast entertainment holdings and its smaller publishing arm -- could yield a significant jump in shareholder value. DealBook 
Sale by KPN Shareholder Opens Door for Slim | Capital Research and Management reduced its stake in KPN to 6.79 percent of voting rights as of June 21 from 15.11 percent in January, according to a filing, putting Carlos Slim Hel's America Movil in position to take effective control of the Dutch telecommunications company, Reuters reports. reuters
Liberty Global and Searchlight to Acquire Cable Operator | Liberty Global announced that a subsidiary had partnered with funds affiliated with Searchlight Capital Partners to take over OneLink, valuing the company at around $585 million in a deal that would create the largest cable operator in Puerto Rico. news release
Groupon's China Unit to Merge With Rival | Gaopeng, Groupon's joint venture in China with Tencent Holdings, plans to combine with FTuan, another daily deals site that is also backed by Tencent, Reuters reports. reuters
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Spanish Officials Downplayed Concerns About Banks | The New York Times reports: "From their lofty perches, first at Spain's central bank and then as the I.M.F.'s top executives assessing global banking risk, Jos Vials and Jaime Caruana were well positioned to sound alarms about the looming bank debacle. But at a news conference in Washington in April 2010, when analysts were raising red flags about failing Spanish real estate loans, Mr. Vials - who a year earlier had succeeded Mr. Caruana - offered assurances. The Spanish system was 'fundamentally sound,' he said, and its needs for cash 'very small.'" new york times
Traditional Exchanges Take On Newcomers | Established players like the NYSE Euronext have raised concerns about nontraditional trading platforms, where trading happens away from the gaze of regulators. The New York Times reports that a proposal by NYSE Euronext to create a new platform "has become the front line in a battle over what the nation's stock markets should look like after nearly a decade of fragmentation." new york times
Pressure Mounts on Dimon to Resign From N.Y. Fed | Thomas M. Hoenig, a current board member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and a former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, said Jamie Dimon should give up his seat on the board of the New York Fed, because of an appearance of a conflict of interest, Bloomberg News reports. bloomberg news
JPMorgan Invests in its Own Real Estate Fund | A JPMorgan Chase real estate fund, Junius Real Estate Partners, had planned to draw just 3 percent of its capital from the bank, according to The Wall Street Journal. Instead, when fund-raising proved difficult, JPMorgan ended up contributing all the equity for the fund's initial deals, the newspaper reports, citing unidentified people briefed on the matter. wall street journal
Citigroup Names a Head of Retail Banking | Jonathan Larsen, Citigroup's head of consumer banking for the Asia-Pacific region, will be taking on more responsibilities as the global head of retail banking, Bloomberg News reports. bloomberg news
Rothschild Executive Said to Be Headed to Third Avenue | David Resnick, who has advised on bankruptcies like those of American Airlines and Delphi during his 12 years at Rothschild, is becoming president of Third Avenue Management in September, Bloomberg News reports, citing four unidentified people familiar with the matter. bloomberg news
R.B.S. to Stop Hosting Clients at Wimbledon | The Royal Bank of Scotland, which is trying to resolve a technical problem that left thousands of customers without access to cash, said it would be "inappropriate" to continue hosting corporate clients at Wimbledon, The Guardian reports. guardian
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Companies Turn to Bond Sales to Finance Buyouts | Investors are showing an increased appetite for risky debt used to finance private equity buyouts, as companies have sold $8.2 billion of such bonds so far this year, according to Dealogic, The Wall Street Journal reports. wall street journal
When Private Equity Saves Jobs | Richard Farley, a partner in the corporate practice of Paul Hastings, writes in the Another View column that private equity does more to save jobs at struggling companies than other types of owners do. DealBook 
Currency Slump Strains Private Equity in India | Reuters reports: "Global private equity funds, which poured tens of billions of dollars into India investments when the economy and currency were flying high a few years ago, may be stuck with those holdings much longer than planned as the rupee's plunge plays havoc with their exit options." reuters
Pamplona Capital Takes a Larger Stake in UniCredit | The British private equity firm Pamplona Capital Management increased its stake in UniCredit to 5 percent to become the Italian bank's second-largest shareholder, The Financial Times reports. financial times
HEDGE FUNDS 
Fund manager Said to Exit Bet Against JPMorgan | Boaz Weinstein, who runs Saba Capital Management, has exited the trading position that helped bring about JPMorgan Chase's multibillion-dollar loss, Bloomberg News reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the matter. Mr. Weinstein's main fund was said to be up 2.3 percent this year through June 22. bloomberg news
New Hedge Fund to Focus on Mortgage Securities | A new fund at Tandem Global Management, run by former proprietary traders at the Royal Bank of Canada and Bank of America, joins several other investors in betting that securities related to mortgages will become more valuable, Bloomberg News reports. bloomberg news
Mitt Romney, Hedge Fund Manager? | Fortune writes: "Virtually all of Bain's early investment activities were centered on long-term bets in the private markets, but there were exceptions." fortune
Fortress Said to Seek $1 Billion for Property Fund | The Fortress Investment Group is looking to raise $1 billion to invest in real estate assets in Japan, Bloomberg News reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the plan. bloomberg news
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
ServiceNow's Debut a Test for Morgan Stanley | The I.P.O. this week of ServiceNow, one of the major providers of cloud-based software for companies, will give Morgan Stanley a chance to prove itself after Facebook's debut, Bloomberg News reports. bloomberg news
EQT Midstream Prices I.P.O. at Top of Range | EQT Midstream Partners, the natural gas pipeline operator, raised $262.5 million in the first initial public offering in the United States since Facebook's I.P.O., Bloomberg News reports. bloomberg news
Analysts Are Upbeat on Facebook, With Caveats | Reuters reports: "Analysts said they see significant long-term potential for Facebook - the top social networking Web site - and expect it to corner a substantial share of the global Internet advertising market. But risks remain, given limited visibility over the business model and uncertainty over mobile monetization." reuters
Zynga's Announcement Greets a Skeptical Market | Zynga, which is trying to lure players back to its games and revive its sagging stock price, announced a series of updates and new features on Tuesday, the Bits blog reports. But the company's shares ended the day down nearly 5 percent. new york times bits
Asia Coal Firm Looks to Raise $1.1 Billion | Inner Mongolia Yitai Coal is aiming to raise as much as $1.1 billion through a stock offering in Hong Kong, Bloomberg News reports, citing terms of the deal. bloomberg news
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Tech Companies Look to Bring More Women Into the Industry | Twitter, General Electric, Google and eBay announced on Tuesday that they were joining an initiative called "Girls Who Code," intended to address the gender imbalance in the technology industry, the Bits blog reports. new york times bits
Spotify in Partnership With Yahoo | The Swedish start-up Spotify is replacing Rhapsody as the provider of on-demand music for the Yahoo Music site, The Associated Press reports. associated press
Start-Up Aims to Streamline Credit Card Use | TechCrunch writes: "Wallaby combines all of your existing credit cards onto one card and then decides which of your credit card accounts to route your transactions to based on where you can get the most frequent flier miles or cashback bonuses." techcrunch
Catering to Retailers, Start-Up Attracts $20 Million | Avalara, which has developed a system to help retailers calculate sales tax, raised $20 million in a financing round led by Battery Ventures, AllThingsD reports. allthingsd
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
S.E.C. Said to Be Poised to Sue Fund Manager | Philip A. Falcone, the hedge fund manager, will fight any charges filed against him, his lawyer said. The S.E.C. has been looking at a $113 million loan Mr. Falcone made from his fund. DealBook 
Galleon Official Is Spared Prison | Adam Smith, a former portfolio manager at the Galleon Group hedge fund who provided the government with crucial assistance in prosecuting his onetime boss, Raj Rajaratnam, avoided prison on Tuesday when a judge sentenced him to two years' probation. DealBook 
Money Market Industry's Resistance May Hurt Companies | The money market fund industry is pushing back against proposed regulations that could make the funds more stable for issuers and investors, but without reform, corporate America could end up suffering, the Deal Professor writes. Deal Professor 
S.E.C. Said to Prepare Proposal for Money Market Funds | Bloomberg News reports that the Securities and Exchange Commission "was presented with a 337-page staff proposal to require the $2.5 trillion money-market fund industry to float share prices or hold more capital and curb redemptions, according to a person familiar with the proposal." bloomberg news
Nomura Chief Sounds a Note of Contrition | Kenichi Watanabe, the chief executive of Nomura Holdings, told shareholders on Wednesday that the firm would make efforts to restore confidence after the revelation that it was being investigated for insider trading, Bloomberg News reports. bloomberg news
Watchdogs for Bondholders Lose Some Authority | The Wall Street Journal reports: "In the dark days of the downturn when financial markets seized up, Wall Street firms tried to jump-start the commercial-mortgage-backed securities business by adding a watchdog into the process to protect investors. Now, those watchdogs are losing their fangs." wall street journal
Tokyo Electric Shareholders Approve Government Support | Shareholders of the Tokyo Electric Power Company signed off on a 1 trillion yen ($12.58 billion) capital injection from the Japanese government, a transaction that would put the utility under government control, Reuters reports. reuters
Porsche Investors to Bring Damage Claims to Court | Investors are demanding more than 4 billion euros ($5 billion) in damages over claims that Porsche misled them about plans to take over Volkswagen in 2008, Reuters reports. reuters
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FUTURES (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TAKEOVERS (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); LITERATURE (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (68%); MERGERS (68%); INTERBANK LENDING (66%); DEVALUATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GLENCORE INTERNATIONAL AG (62%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (57%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GLEN (LSE) (62%); 0805 (HKSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (62%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (62%)

PERSON: JON BON JOVI (64%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (55%) GERMANY (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); GREECE (55%); UNITED STATES (55%); SPAIN (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1029 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: If the Health Care Law Is Overturned, Anger May Not Be the President's Reaction

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: If the Supreme Court overturns all or part of the Affordable Care Act on Thursday, President Obama will have a perfect excuse to get nail-spitting mad. But he won't. 

 BODY:
If the Supreme Court overturns all or part of the Affordable Care Act on Thursday, President Obama will have a perfect excuse to get nail-spitting mad.
The health care law is his legacy. He poured his credibility and his political capital into passage of the law, only to see it become an electoral albatross. And yet, it is also a source of personal pride for the president, who routinely reads letters from Americans about their health care struggles. 
It is hard to imagine that any politician would not fly into a rage if his critics succeeded in virtually erasing that effort.
It is a good bet that he will not.
Mr. Obama has demonstrated little willingness to show anger publicly during his three and a half years in the White House. Even in some of the most trying moments for his administration - and he has had his fair share - his demeanor in front of the cameras has been more cool than hot.
When bankers received millions of dollars in bonuses even as their firms sought billions in federal bailout funds, it took Mr. Obama several days to express his outrage. "I like to know what I'm talking about before I speak, you know?" Mr. Obama told reporters at a news conference in 2009. The Gulf coast oil spill was an environmental disaster that hijacked Mr. Obama's administration for the better part of a summer. But his public demeanor rarely matched the intensity of the tragedy.
"It is here that the president could finally put to rest the narrative that he's a robot incapable of demonstrating empathy, let alone show rage," wrote Jonathan Capehart, an editorial writer for The Washington Post at the time.
Even the spectacle of being forced to hold a White House news conference to release his birth certificate did not move Mr. Obama to anything close to rage. "We're not going to be able to solve our problems if we get distracted by sideshows and carnival barkers," Mr. Obama said at the time, referring to Donald Trump, who had pushed for the president to release the document publicly.
There have been brief flashes of public irritation that suggest Mr. Obama is not immune to the frustrations of his job.
When House Speaker John A. Boehner refused to call him back during the collapse of the debt deal between them, Mr. Obama sharply demanded the presence of lawmakers, telling reporters: "I want them here at 11 a.m. tomorrow. They are going to have to explain to me how it is that we are going to avoid default."
And more recently, Mr. Obama grew short and testy when a journalist interrupted him during a Rose Garden news conference on his new immigration policy: "The answer to your question, sir, and the next time I'd prefer you let me finish my statements before you ask that question, is this is the right thing to do for the American people."
The prostitution scandal involving Secret Service agents moved Mr. Obama to say: "If it turns out that some of the allegations made in the press are confirmed, then of course I'll be angry."
But more often, the president is described by aides as having become angry in private.
As noted by New York Magazine earlier this year, Mr. Obama's top aides at times characterized their boss as "furious," "incensed," "outraged," "enraged," "fuming mad," "seething," and "irate."
(His aides themselves have no trouble expressing their anger. Take that from any number of journalists who have firsthand knowledge.)
Does Mr. Obama's reserved mannerism matter? 
Part of what animated the president's most ardent supporters in the 2008 campaign was his passion on the stump. He is trying to recreate that passion as he travels to campaign events this year.
But some Democrats want to see more. They want to see the frustrations of the past several years - the clashes with Republican lawmakers; the disappointing Supreme Court decisions; the economic misfortune - bubble over in Mr. Obama they way it sometimes bubbles over in themselves.
In a column in The Daily Beast, Michael Tomasky writes that if the health care law is struck down, Mr. Obama "needs to stand up there and get mad."
"Mr. Cool needs to get Hot," Mr. Tomasky, a liberal columnist, wrote, adding that "If you can't play offense with 85 percent of the people behind you, I give up."
Will he get hot? Some believe Mr. Obama is careful not to provide his detractors ammunition for a charge that an "angry black man" is in the Oval Office. (The first lady, Michelle Obama, rejected charges that she is "some kind of angry black woman" after the publication of a book about her marriage to the president.)
But if the court overturns one of his signature accomplishments, it may just be too much, even for the president. We will know for sure sometime after 10 a.m. on Thursday.

        
If Health Law Is Overturned, What Will Liberals Do?
        
Court Health Care Decision Poses Risks For Romney
        
Supreme Court Ruling Could Revive Health Care for 2012 Campaign
        
Romney Confronts Health Care Questions
        
Reporter Q. and A. on the Health Care Arguments

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (93%); HEALTH CARE LAW (93%); US PRESIDENTS (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); WRITERS (87%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BAILOUTS (72%); OIL SPILLS (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (65%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (61%); IMMIGRATION (50%) health care; health care reform; Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act; president obama; Supreme Court; The 44th President; The Caucus; The White House

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1030 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: California: Stockton Readies for Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
STOCKTON, Calif. -- The long, slow slide into financial collapse is nearly complete for this Central Valley community.
On Tuesday night, City Council members approved a new budget that will guide city operations during bankruptcy and amend a $26 million budget shortfall. With that vote out of the way, city officials could file for Chapter 9 bankruptcy as early as Wednesday, which would make Stockton the country's largest city to go bankrupt.
The new budget will suspend debt payments, cut employee pay and reduce retiree benefits, allowing this city of about 292,000 residents to continue providing essential services through the bankruptcy process. 
''This is not where any of us wanted to be,'' Bob Deis, the city manager, said in a statement. ''But absent restructuring agreements with our creditors, any other options would decimate the city.''
A year after nearby Vallejo, Calif., filed bankruptcy in 2008, state lawmakers passed AB 506, a bill requiring cities to hire a third-party mediator to negotiate with creditors before filing for bankruptcy. Stockton officials had hoped to avoid bankruptcy when the city became the first to enter into the new state-required mediation in March.
But on Monday night, after 90 days of mediation, the city and its 18 creditors failed to meet a midnight deadline for a deal.
''Bankruptcy is a terrible option until it's the only option,'' Marc Levinson, a lawyer representing the city, told the council. During Tuesday's meeting, dozens of emotional residents and city retirees begged officials to avoid bankruptcy and preserve benefits.
The State Constitution required that the city address its $26 million general fund deficit, of a total budget of $521 million, to meet a July 1 deadline for cities to adopt balanced budgets. The city could continue informal negotiations with creditors with the new budget, but a bankruptcy filing appeared imminent.
Bankruptcy experts and officials at other fiscally wounded cities are keeping close tabs on Stockton as it unravels.
''Everyone is watching,'' said Karol K. Denniston, a partner at the law firm Schiff Hardin who helped draft the AB 506 legislation. ''It's in the interest of every teetering city to make its bankruptcy process as short and cost effective as possible.''
Despite their failure to reach an agreement, three months of negotiation between the city and its creditors could make the bankruptcy process more efficient by shortening what can otherwise be a long and costly period in court, Ms. Denniston said. Protracted bankruptcy proceedings -- like those in Vallejo -- can push residents to leave, further eroding a city's tax base.
Conventional wisdom has long held that large cities do not use bankruptcy court to restructure, said David Skeel, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania.
''To me Stockton confirms that Chapter 9 bankruptcy is not just for small municipalities,'' said Professor Skeel. ''Here's a substantial city going into bankruptcy at a point in time when there are dozens and dozens of cities across the country in comparable states of financial distress.''
Still, such municipal bankruptcies are rare. Stockton's road from boomtown to insolvency has been a tortuous one, riddled with missteps and unfortunate timing.
This city, some 80 miles east of San Francisco, was not so long ago a rapidly expanding bedroom community for commuters to the Bay Area. But in recent years, Stockton has been crushed by falling housing prices, foreclosures, the mounting costs of retiree pensions and hefty price tags for buildings paid for with taxpayer-guaranteed bonds, including a hockey arena.
Since 2009, the city has cut some $90 million in spending and eliminated 25 percent of its police officers, 30 percent of its fire department and 40 percent of all other city employees.
Earlier this year the city defaulted on several debt payments, and as a result Wells Fargo repossessed a downtown building bought in 2007 for $40 million. Officials had planned a new city hall there. The bank also repossessed three city-owned parking garages.
''We have hit the wall; we are insolvent,'' Mayor Ann Johnston said in a statement issued in early June, after city officials authorized the city manager to file for bankruptcy if mediation efforts failed, as they now have. ''This is the action that we must take to keep the services that are important for the safety and health of our citizens.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); LAWYERS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1031 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Orders for Durable Goods Rise, but Global Concerns Lurk

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Demand for long-lasting manufactured goods rebounded more than expected in May and a gauge of planned business spending increased, but a cooling global economy suggested the momentum might not be sustained. 
Orders for durable goods rose 1.1 percent last month on strong demand for transportation equipment, the Commerce Department said Wednesday. Economists had expected orders to rise just 0.4 percent.
Still, the report showed underlying softness, and analysts said the outlook did not look much better.
''With global and domestic demand continuing to weaken, we believe that this relatively brisk pace of new orders activity is unlikely to be sustained,'' said Millan Mulraine, senior macro strategist at TD Securities in New York.
A slowdown in China and a looming recession in Europe have taken some of the shine off the American manufacturing sector, leaving the economy stuck in a soft patch.
Excluding transportation and military, durable goods orders were down in May.
But a budding recovery in the housing market should provide a buffer for the economy. The National Association of Realtors said signed contracts for home purchases increased 5.9 percent in May, the most since October.
Demand for durable goods -- items from toasters to aircraft that are meant to last at least three years -- tends to be volatile. But a rolling three-month average showed a softening trend, and orders in May remained below their December level.
Last month, however, represented a relative bright spot.
Nonmilitary capital goods orders excluding aircraft, a closely watched gauge for business spending plans, increased 1.6 percent in May after dropping 1.4 percent in April. The gain snapped two straight months of declines.
Shipments of nonmilitary capital goods orders excluding aircraft, used to calculate equipment and software spending for the government's measure of gross domestic product, rose 0.4 percent in May after declining 1.5 percent in April.
Regional surveys of factory activity have suggested a weakening in orders this month, a trend that is likely to be highlighted in a report on national manufacturing next week.
''The underlying trends in orders and shipments of investment goods not only remain weak but point to further deceleration from the already subdued levels,'' said Harm Bandholz, chief economist at UniCredit Research in New York.
While the American economy is slowing, the housing market is proving to be a bright spot.
The rise in pending home sales in May took them back to a level that matched March as the best month since April 2010, when buyers were rushing to take advantage of an expiring tax credit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (96%); DURABLE GOODS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); SHIPMENTS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1032 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: For Arts Institutions, Thinking Big Can Be Suicidal

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Keeping up with the Joneses.
It happens in many settings, from the classroom to the country club, and, perhaps not surprisingly, among cultural organizations, according to a new study that finds that many institutions recently expanded their buildings in part because everyone else had.
Other reasons that organizations will build too much are overambitious trustees, self-interested architects and unrealistic financial projections, according to the study by the Cultural Policy Center at the University of Chicago that is to be released Thursday. 
The study, ''Set in Stone,'' examined the cultural building boom between 1994 and 2008, when museums, performing arts centers and theaters in the United States got swept up in new construction or major renovations.
More than $16 billion was spent by cultural organizations on building projects during that period, some inspired by the hope that construction initiatives could do what a Frank Gehry-designed museum building did for Bilbao, Spain: transform a small city into a major cultural destination.
''This issue between confusing a want with a need is enormous in the sector,'' said Carroll Joynes, a founder and senior fellow at the policy center. ''There are clear ways to avoid this. You can learn from what other people went through.''
A number of the lessons, the study suggests, could be drawn from its case studies of expansions like that of the Art Institute of Chicago over the past decade.
At first glance the project seemed daunting: a $300 million venture that would boost yearly operating costs by an estimated $4 million and would necessitate another $87 million in fund-raising to expand the endowment.
But with the Italian architect Renzo Piano engaged and several key trustees and the museum's director gung ho, the expansion gained a kind of inexorable momentum.
Attendance did spike initially when the new wing opened in March 2009, but then it dropped back to normal levels. A precipitous decline in endowment income led to pay cuts, furloughs, a salary freeze and two rounds of layoffs.
''Instead of expanding its budget as expected, the Art Institute was forced to contract instead,'' the study said.
The study examines not only what arts organizations got wrong but also what they got right and offers guidance for arts executives, civic leaders, donors and government officials about how to avoid pitfalls and how to grow intelligently and responsibly -- or maybe not at all.
''It's lessons from the front lines,'' said Adrian Ellis, an arts consultant who helped conceptualize the study. ''The stories aren't told that often.''
The study was based on interviews with people in more than 500 arts organizations and drew data from more than 700 construction projects that ranged in cost from $4 million to $335 million. The New York region led the country in cultural building ($1.6 billion) after Los Angeles ($950 million) and the Chicago area ($870 million).
In many cases the researchers found that organizations failed to realistically assess the demand for their projects and their capacities to complete them: Do we really need this? Can we afford to build it? Can we support a larger operation going forward?
''All of the work fundamentally says, 'Don't build what you can't sustain,' '' said Duncan M. Webb, an arts management consultant, who was an adviser on the study.
Architects can also run away with a project, the study reports. ''They say the building is for you, but the building is for them,'' Mr. Joynes said. ''It's for the pictures and for their careers. From their point of view it's a real success if it gets built.''
The study found that the most successful projects were driven by a clear artistic mission and demonstrable need; had authoritative and consistent leadership throughout the process; controlled expenses during construction; and generated income after completion.
The report's other case studies were the Taubman Museum of Art in Roanoke, Va.; the AT&T Performing Arts Center in Dallas.; and the Long Center for the Performing Arts in Austin, Tex. -- all of which encountered financial hurdles after expansion.
''The Modern Wing was not an impulsive project,'' Douglas Druick, the director of the Art Institute of Chicago, said. ''It was 10 years in the making, and it puts the Art Institute on a solid footing for the future. We expect it to be here for decades, just as we still open the doors of our original 1893 building every morning.''
Additional examples outside the study abound, Mr. Joynes said, like the recent travails of the American Folk Art Museum in New York, which had to close its new flagship building in Midtown and move to its smaller Upper West Side location after almost going out of business. ''The Folk Art Museum should not have happened,'' Mr. Joynes said. ''It was a wonderful museum and they self-destructed. Our whole purpose in this is to say, 'There are ways to do this that can protect your organization and help you fulfill your mission that won't cripple you or take you down.'''
The Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts in Philadelphia, Mr. Ellis said, is an example of an organization that failed to build the necessary consensus among public officials and others before embarking on its $265 million complex, which opened in 2001.
''They thought, 'If we can just get this thing up, everything will fall into place,' and that simply isn't the case,'' Mr. Ellis said of the Kimmel. ''If you haven't thought about how to operate it, it will come back and bite you.''
Anne C. Ewers, Kimmel's president and chief executive, acknowledged that she inherited a $30 million building deficit when she came on board in 2007 but said that she retired it the following year and that the institution was in the process of correcting ''architectural mistakes'' like the acoustics. ''The biggest challenge was not having established an endowment dedicated to the maintenance of the facility,'' she said.
In part because of these experiences and the economic downturn, the researchers say, the cultural building boom is decidedly over. The trend now is toward adaptive reuse of existing buildings and cultural districts that link various smaller organizations.
''We're less interested in the idea of palaces of the arts,'' Mr. Webb said. ''A lot of these communities got in over their heads. I think we've learned our lessons.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Modern Wing of the Art Institute of Chicago was a 10-year construction project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE LITVIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
Top, the Margot and Bill Winspear Opera House at the AT&T Performing Arts Center in Dallas, and the Long Center for the Performing Arts in Austin, Tex. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IWAN BAAN
 ERICH SCHLEGEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); CASE STUDIES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); CITY LIFE (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); LAYOFFS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1033 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Attack Raises Fears of a New Gang War in Macau

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and NEIL GOUGH; Keith Bradsher reported from Macau, and Neil Gough from Hong Kong. Hilda Wang contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
MACAU -- A senior figure in Macau's gambling industry was severely beaten by six men in a restaurant at his own casino, the highest-profile case of violence in the city's booming gambling business since Portugal handed control of the former colony back to China in 1999.
It was a brazen act recalling the rampant gang warfare that gripped Macau in the late 1990s -- before the more recent arrival of Las Vegas casino developers like Sheldon G. Adelson and Steve Wynn and their billions of dollars in investments. The weekend assault against the gambling industry figure, Ng Man-sun, a casino hotel investor, bore the signs of a textbook attack by triads, or Chinese criminal societies, experts and analysts said on Wednesday. 
The episode serves as a reminder that Macau's bad old days are not so far behind it. The Las Vegas Sands, owned by Mr. Adelson; Wynn Resorts; and MGM Resorts International have poured more than $10 billion into building Las Vegas-style resorts here in recent years, helping its economy more than triple in size since 2004, when the first foreign-owned property was opened. By last year, Macau's casino revenue had soared to almost $34 billion, more than five times that of the Las Vegas Strip.
But little more than a decade ago -- when the city's casinos were still under the four-decade monopoly of the gambling magnate Stanley Ho -- triad murders, bombings and other attacks were so common that a senior police official once tried to reassure tourists by announcing that Macau had ''professional killers who don't miss their targets.''
That violent period resonated this week with the attack on Mr. Ng, who is widely known in Macau and Hong Kong as Ng Wai and Street Market Wai. Mr. Ng has been an investor in the Greek Mythology Casino, which is part of the New Century Hotel on Taipa Island in Macau, through his controlling stake in Amax Holdings, a firm listed in Hong Kong.
Mr. Ng, 65, was having dinner in a restaurant of the hotel late on Sunday night with an unidentified woman in her 30s when six men rushed in and proceeded to beat the couple with hammers and sticks, according to news reports in Macau on Tuesday. The reports said that Mr. Ng's arms and legs were badly hurt but that the attackers had avoided hitting him on the head.
Suen Kam-fai, the chief of the Judiciary Police's anti-money-laundering division, said Wednesday that a man with the surname Ng had been attacked and wounded on Taipa Island on Sunday, adding that the case had been referred to the police agency's investigations unit. Associates confirmed Wednesday that the victim was Ng Man-sun, and said he was recovering in a hospital in Macau.
The woman was not badly hurt and was treated at a hospital and released.
A spokeswoman for Amax, Mr. Ng's firm, declined to comment on Wednesday.
The New Century Hotel was the target of an attack in July 1997, during the years of gang warfare in Macau. Unidentified assailants sprayed the facade of the hotel with gunfire and wounded several security guards. No arrests were made.
At the time, Mr. Ng was in a public rivalry with one of Macau's most notorious gangsters, Wan Kuok-koi, widely known as Broken Tooth. In a rare interview with Time magazine in April 1998, Mr. Wan spoke extensively of that rivalry, saying of Mr. Ng that ''fate will not be kind to him'' and pledging a ''beautiful war.''
''I'm going to wipe him out,'' Mr. Wan said, according to the magazine.
Mr. Wan was arrested in 1998 and convicted of triad gang membership, money laundering and loan sharking, among other crimes. Mr. Wan is scheduled to be released in December.
Mr. Ng, and previously Mr. Wan, are among thousands of gambling junket agents and so-called V.I.P. room operators in Macau. Junket agents bring high rollers to casino V.I.P. rooms, issue them credit and collect their gambling debts in exchange for a commission from the casino operator.
Their services are popular among Macau's casino operators because the city relies heavily on players from mainland China, where gambling is illegal and the courts do not recognize casino debts. So these debts are often collected by extrajudicial means.
''The junket operators operate on a knife edge, and any 'disturbance' in the daily course of business can set off a war between them,'' said Steve Vickers, a former commander of the Royal Hong Kong Police Criminal Intelligence Bureau who now runs a business intelligence and risk organization in Hong Kong.
Others said the attack against Mr. Ng could catch the attention of foreign gambling regulators, including those in Nevada, who are charged with monitoring the overseas casino operations of their licensees.
Analysts say that junket operators are responsible for most of the activity in the Macau's gambling industry's high-roller segment, which accounted for $25 billion in casino revenue last year. But the market has cooled recently.
''If you add everything up -- a slowing market, Broken Tooth possibly coming back in -- people may be scared there could be another round of violence,'' one gambling analyst said of the attack on Mr. Ng, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to comment publicly on the matter. ''But I don't think the Chinese government would let that kind of thing happen. They will make sure everyone has enough business and stays cool.''
Since the attack was carried out by several assailants who did not use knives and did not appear to be trying to kill the victim, it bore the classic marks of a triad warning, experts said.
''An attack like this may be designed to send a message and do violence to his reputation,'' said Roderic Broadhurst, a professor and criminology expert at Australian National University. ''The fact that it took place in his own property is highly symbolic.''
Mr. Ng was involved in a number of recent financial disputes in Macau's gambling industry, according to one associate who requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter. The associate said they included a falling out with a former girlfriend and business partner, Chen Mei Huan, over control of the casino business.
''He has so many opponents and enemies that you don't know who could be behind this, and I don't want to guess,'' the associate said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ng Man-sun, a Macau casino investor, in 2005. He was attacked by six men over the weekend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS OWEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (92%); CASINOS (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); RESORTS (78%); MURDER (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); BOMBINGS (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (60%); MYTHOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: WYNN RESORTS LTD (90%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (69%); LAS VEGAS SANDS CORP (58%)

TICKER: WYNN (NASDAQ) (90%); MGM (NYSE) (69%); LVS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (90%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (90%)

PERSON: SHELDON G ADELSON (73%); STEPHEN A WYNN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (93%) MACAO (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1034 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Cuts at Seattle Opera

BYLINE: By FELICIA R. LEE

 BODY:
The Seattle Opera says an anticipated $1 million budget shortfall this season will mean cuts in salaries and staff and a reshaping of its programming, with a four-opera season instead of five beginning in 2014. Opera company officials said in a press release issued Tuesday night after a board meeting that a difficult economy, along with a drop in subscription sales and major donations, have contributed to its fiscal woes. 
''Given the economic situation, and our need responsibly to steward the money contributed by our community of donors and ticket-buyers, we are making some changes to our long-range plans,'' Speight Jenkins, the general director, said in the release. ''When the financial situation improves, we will move as quickly as possible to restore what we have at this time either eliminated or put on hold.''
The opera says its 2012-2013 season which opens in August with Puccini's ''Turandot,'' will continue as scheduled, and the company will produce three cycles of the ''Ring'' next summer as announced. But changes include presenting the International Wagner Competition in summer 2014, instead of the previously announced production of Wagner's ''Der Meistersinger von Nurnberg.'' And it will present a concert with orchestra instead of a fully produced opera for its Young Artists Program in 2012-13, and put the entire program on hiatus in 2013-14. In addition, artist fees will be reduced and four full-time staff positions will be eliminated (two positions will be added to focus on fundraising and major gifts).
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (92%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1035 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Housing Market Sending Signals It Is Recovering

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Announcements of a housing recovery have become a wrongheaded rite of summer, but after several years of false hopes, evidence is accumulating that the optimists may finally be right.
The housing market is starting to recover. Prices are rising. Sales are increasing. Home builders are clearing lots and raising frames.
Joe Niece, a real estate agent in the Minneapolis suburb of Eden Prairie, said he recently concluded a streak of 13 consecutive bidding wars over homes that his clients wanted to buy. Each sold above the asking price. 
''I just had a home that wasn't supposed to go on the market for two weeks sold before it even went on the market,'' Mr. Niece said. ''It's definitely a lot different than what we saw'' during the last few summers.
Like the economic recovery that began three years ago, what happens next is likely to prove a little disappointing. The pace of recovery will probably be slow, and the prices of many homes will continue to decline.
Millions of people remain underwater, owing more on their homes than the homes are worth, and unable to sell. Millions of families still face foreclosure. And a setback in the still-fragile economic recovery could easily reverse the uptick in housing prices, too.
But roughly six years after the housing market began its longest and deepest slide since the Great Depression, a growing number of experts and people who actually put money into housing believe the end has come.
''Our sense is that the market is recovering, and we're extremely confident that it's not going to get worse,'' said Ronnie Morgan, a San Diego real estate professional who recently created a $10 million partnership to buy foreclosed homes. The group, Alegria Real Estate Funds, already has bought about 20 homes in suburban communities, most of which they plan to hold as rental properties.
''It feels very much like we've hit a bottom and we're starting to come off of that bottom,'' said Stuart Miller, chief executive of Lennar, a major national home builder based in Miami. The company said Wednesday that second-quarter profits were higher than expected, and orders for new homes rose 40 percent.
''I'm a little nervous,'' Mr. Miller quickly added in a conference call with analysts, ''about saying the word 'recovery.' ''
The trend is clear in the data. The widely respected S.&P./Case-Shiller index reported earlier this week that sales prices for existing homes rose in April for the first time this year. Several other measures, including a seasonally adjusted version of the index, show that price increases began in February. The pace of housing construction has increased. And the National Association of Realtorssaid Wednesday that pending home sales climbed to the highest level since the end of a federal tax credit for first-time buyers in September 2010.
This is the fourth consecutive year that the housing market has shown signs of revival, and each previous episode ended with prices renewing their downward slide.
But with each passing year, an eventual recovery has grown more likely. Prices have continued to fall, and the economy has continued to recover, a combination that has expanded the pool of potential buyers. The population has continued to grow while few new homes have been built.
Basic indicators of market health that bulged during the bubble, like the ratio of housing prices to income, have returned to more normal levels.
Government efforts to help homeowners have intensified, allowing more borrowers to refinance or avoid foreclosure.
''All bets are off if anything happens to the economy, but apart from that, I think the fundamentals look better than they've looked in 17 or 18 years,'' said Richard K. Green, a professor of real estate at the University of Southern California.
Professor Green cited the combination of rising rents and low mortgage rates as a powerful inducement to potential buyers, both renters who would prefer to own and investors who want to become landlords.
''Compared to a lot of other investments right now this looks pretty good,'' he said.
The influx of investors is a major reason that the market is looking stronger. Mr. Morgan, 56, built apartments before the housing crash. In 2010, seeing a new opportunity, he and some friends started bidding at the foreclosure auctions then held on the steps of the San Diego County Courthouse.
At first they bought properties to renovate and resell. Now they are focused on potential rental properties in the kinds of gated, planned communities in suburban San Diego that once were populated almost exclusively by people who owned their homes. Some of their tenants are former homeowners.
And competition has increased. The auctions were moved from the courthouse steps last year because the crowds had grown too large.
''There's not a whole lot of other places to put your money,'' Mr. Morgan said.
There are still reasons for caution. An unusually warm winter seems to have given a temporary and misleading boost to a range of economic indicators.
The pace of economic growth remains slow and fragile, shadowed by the risk that politicians in Europe and Washington will fail to address looming problems.
And the rise in prices is happening despite the vast number of vacant houses awaiting buyers, up to two million more than the normal level, with several million more houses still at risk of being foreclosed.
But this ''shadow inventory'' is not distributed uniformly, according to a new analysis by Goldman Sachs. Even within metropolitan areas like Phoenix, the vacant houses are clustered in less desirable neighborhoods, while buyers are seeking homes in areas where there are few vacancies.
Under these circumstances, the researchers concluded, ''It is possible for us to see both house price increases and excess housing supply at the same time.''
Indeed, in a growing number of areas demand for homes is outstripping supply.
The number of homes for sale has been falling for more than a year, according to the National Association of Realtors. Some owners are waiting for prices to rise; some of them must wait because they are underwater.
Mr. Niece, the Minnesota real estate agent, said he and his partner had seen their book of listings decline from about 120 properties to 70 properties, about 45 of which already are under contract.
''I have buyers every single day complaining that they can't find houses,'' he said.
Driving through a neighboring suburb last week, Mr. Niece said that he passed a sign outside another real estate office that read, ''The market is great. We've sold all of our inventory. We need listings.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A house in San Francisco that has been sold. Pending home sales are increasing along with sale prices, and construction companies are clearing lots and raising frames for new homes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) CHARTS: Some Positive Housing News: Many housing figures released this week indicated improvement. (Sources: National Association of Realtors
S.& P./Case-Shiller
 Commerce Department) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); TRENDS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); SUBURBS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

PERSON: STUART A MILLER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1036 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Which Direction for the Mideast?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''The Third Intifada Is Inevitable'' (Sunday Review, June 24):
Nathan Thrall paints an unconvincing picture of Palestinian accommodation and Israeli intransigence, while arguing for what I believe would amount to a return to the illusion and self-deception that has plagued the Palestinians for decades.
His argument that many Palestinians have learned that only violence produces results ill serves Palestinian aspirations for independence and security. In fact, Israel has had a fairly consistent policy of peacemaking over the years, reflecting its longing for peace as well as the perception that time is not always Israel's best friend. 
This has been reflected in Israel's trying different approaches -- step-by-step in the Oslo process, comprehensive at Camp David and Annapolis, and unilateral in Gaza, in an effort to entice Palestinians to end the conflict with peace and security for both sides.
The true frustration lies in Palestinian unresponsiveness. The Palestinians' consistent rejection of direct talks, their attempts to circumvent negotiations through steps at the United Nations to unilaterally recognize a Palestinian state, and their encouragement of boycotts and sanctions against the Jewish state are hardly forthcoming gestures.
Let's not give up on encouraging negotiations as the only viable alternative for an enduring and secure end to the conflict.
ABRAHAM H. FOXMAN National Director Anti-Defamation League New York, June 25, 2012
To the Editor:
Nathan Thrall's description of Israeli-Palestinian relations is very disturbing, but, unfortunately, accurate.
Israelis are ''forgetting that there is an occupation at all,'' and Palestinians ''have lost all hope that Israel will grant them a state.''
Armed confrontation between Israelis and Palestinians, especially when the Middle East and the global economy are in turmoil, would have serious repercussions for the United States, Israel and the Palestinians.
That is why American policy makers cannot sweep the Israeli-Arab conflict under the rug until after the elections and why candidates for the presidency and Congress and their surrogates must not play political football with this issue just to score political points.
SEYMOUR D. REICH New York, June 26, 2012
The writer is a former chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations.
To the Editor:
Nathan Thrall raises crucial issues about the failures of the ''peace process.'' But he does not mention two critical points.
First, while the dwindling support for traditional Palestinian leaders is apparent, a diverse, empowered civil society movement has emerged that has appropriated for itself the job of figuring out how to end the 1967 occupation and achieve other Palestinian rights. Second, that movement's most effective method yet for bringing nonviolent pressure to bear on Israel is the boycott, divestment and sanctions strategy known as B.D.S.
Originally endorsed by 170 Palestinian organizations, B.D.S. has emerged as a global campaign. Just last week we saw its power here in the United States, when the pension giant TIAA-CREF divested $72 million in Caterpillar stock from its socially responsible fund, following Morgan Stanley Capital International's removal of Caterpillar from its index of socially responsible corporations. Israel's military uses Caterpillar bulldozers to demolish Palestinian houses; a Caterpillar bulldozer driven by an Israeli soldier killed the American peace activist Rachel Corrie in Gaza in 2003.
A third intifada reflecting the failure of the current ''peace process'' may in fact be under way already -- this time a global intifada rooted in nonviolent economic pressure to end Israeli violations.
PHYLLIS BENNIS Washington, June 24, 2012
The writer is a fellow of the Institute for Policy Studies.
To the Editor:
Nathan Thrall writes that the Palestinians have only two options: ''popular protest and armed resistance.'' He overlooks the one option that might accomplish something: compromise. No Palestinian leader has ever tried that.
For example, no Palestinian leader has ever offered to recognize Israel as a Jewish state, or offered to let go of the ''right of return'' -- the insistence that every descendant of any Palestinian who lived in what is now Israel in 1948 should have the right to live there now. And for many months, the Palestinian leadership has refused to even meet with Israel unless Israel makes major concessions in advance.
If the Palestinian leadership refuses to compromise and thus fails to give its people their own state, that is not Israel's fault, and there is not much Israel can do about it. Israel does not choose the Palestinian leadership. If the Palestinian people choose violence once again, the outcome will be their responsibility.
DAN FENDEL Piedmont, Calif., June 24, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY JORDAN AWAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BOYCOTTS (87%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WRITERS (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); DIVESTITURES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); ANTI-DEFAMATION LEAGUE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1037 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Mexicali Tour, From Tummy Tuck to Root Canal

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
MEXICALI, Mexico -- Tourists often come to border towns looking for some kind of illicit adventure, trotting among the bars, strip joints and seedy motels that dot the streets. Here, though, the visitors are searching for something more basic: a root canal they can afford or surgery they have been putting off for months.
Mexicali has adopted medical care as its primary tourist lure, and it has been attracting a growing number of health care commuters from California and other nearby states. Hospitals offer operations for gastric bypass, liposuction and chronic back pain. Dentists promise that extractions, fillings and whitening can all be done for less money. And ophthalmologists advertise laser surgery and routine exams.
As the United States approaches the climax of a fierce national debate over the Obama administration's health care law, which would significantly increase the number of people covered by medical insurance, thousands of people are crossing the border in search of care they either cannot afford or wish to get more cheaply. The influx has grown steadily over the last several years, attracting uninsured Mexicans who have made their lives in the United States and desperately need affordable care. But it increasingly includes a smaller but growing group of middle-class patients from all over the country looking for deals on elective surgeries that most medical insurance will not cover. 
''At first, I was like, Mexicali, where is that?'' said Stephanie Rusky, a 26-year-old social worker from Perkins, Okla., who paid roughly $8,000 for some liposuction, a breast lift and a tummy tuck (a combination known as a ''mommy makeover'') that would have cost about twice that in the United States. ''But I asked every question I could think of and eventually felt really comfortable with it.''
Such sentiments are sweet music to the ears of Omar Dipp, who oversees tourism for the city.
''There's a huge market for this,'' Mr. Dipp said. ''We just have to package it the right way. Everyone benefits: the hotels, the restaurants, the local economy. We give them a reason to come, and they will be here.''
Last year, more than 150,000 patients came to Mexicali, pumping more than $8 million into the city's economy, officials said. There are some dozen hospitals that regularly see Americans, and many have a special administrator to coordinate medical and travel plans. With nearly 100 medical offices in a six-block radius, the city hopes to create a special medical zone by improving streets and sidewalks and adding more services for tourists.
Just across the border in Southern California, the small city of Calexico has struggled for decades. The area has one of the highest unemployment rates in the country.
Many of the residents in the Imperial Valley there rely on seasonal agricultural work and have no insurance. For them, coming to Mexicali for care can seem obvious. A few insurance providers have even expanded some coverage into Mexico, encouraging their customers to seek the less expensive care. A 2010 study showed that roughly 85 percent of those who crossed the border for medical care were Spanish speakers, but Mr. Dipp said he expected more and more ''blue-eyed Americans'' in the coming years.
In strip malls and office buildings here, there are far more medical offices than anything else. Hotels offer special rates for patients, and the local tourism office has begun subsidizing van rides from Las Vegas to bring in those who would rather avoid the drive themselves. And this year, the government opened a special lane to allow medical tourists to bypass most of the wait on the Mexican side of the border, which can often take as long as three hours.
The doctors, with strong support from the local government, are hoping to attract more Americans for elective procedures or more basic care that they may not be able to afford at home. And many here believe that the market will only grow as health care costs continue to rise and more people, particularly low-wage workers along the border, are desperate to find affordable care.
Juan Salas drove nearly three hours from his home in Desert Hot Springs, Calif., to have his 11-year-old daughter, Abigail, fitted for braces. While he has medical insurance through his job as a restaurant supplier, it does not cover dental work, so he has come here dozens of times. Saving thousands of dollars will make up for the round trip of at least five hours he will soon be making a couple of times a month, he said.
''Saving the money is as important as the time,'' Mr. Salas said as his daughter sat in the chair of the small office, where the orthodontist explained that he was using the same equipment Americans would. Mr. Salas's wife, Araceli, said that her family had come here for medical care since she was a child.
When their eldest daughter was struggling with seizures, their local doctor could not see her for weeks. Anxious to get a diagnosis more quickly, they came here to see a doctor who offered not only new medication but also his cellphone number so they could call him for follow-up questions.
''At that point, paying for the care didn't really matter,'' Ms. Salas said. ''We were talking about our daughter's life, so we wanted help right away and we had it.''
Here, many Mexicans talk with pride about the easy access they have to their doctors, sending them frequent text messages with questions and expecting calls back within minutes. One oft-repeated anecdote illustrates a sign of more compassionate care: nurses will warm a patient's hand before sticking him with a needle.
But there are many other considerations potential patients must take into account. None of the hospitals in Mexicali have been certified by American medical accreditation teams. While the facilities appear clean and modern, there are no published studies monitoring infection rates or other risk factors.
Still, seemingly comfortable with the information they do have, people from the United States flock here for surgery.
Carlo Bonfante, an owner of Hospital de la Familia, where Ms. Rusky was a patient, said that the most popular operations were gastric bypass and gastric band surgery (''thanks to all the fries across the border,'' he said with a laugh), but that he hoped more people would begin coming for primary care.
''The people who live a few miles away from here but in another country can't afford the care,'' he said, ''so we will provide it for them for less, whatever they need.''
Since the special medical lane at the border opened at the end of April, doctors have issued roughly 1,600 passes, which are required to use the lane.
''We want to make it as easy as possible, so that there is no hesitation to come,'' said Diana Cota, who oversees international care at Hospital Almater, where roughly 20 percent of patients come from outside Mexico. ''Even before the point where someone says they can't pay for what they want in the U.S., we want them here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lower-cost medical services in Mexicali, Mexico, have drawn an increasing number of visitors from the United States. (A1)
 Top, the nurses' station at Hospital Almater in Mexicali, Mexico, where many patients come from outside Mexico. Many of the families drawn to Mexicali's medical offerings, like the Salases, above right at an orthodontist's office, have limited insurance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) MAP: Mexicali has adopted medical care as its primary tourist lure. (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (92%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); DENTAL INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); MEDICAL LASERS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); CHRONIC DISEASES (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (69%); SEASONAL WORKERS (64%); FARM LABOR (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (55%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1038 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: A Rate-Setting Mechanism of Far-Reaching Effects

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

 BODY:
A multiyear, global investigation into the setting of interest rates has focused on often complex trades in the financial centers of New York, London and Tokyo. But the accusations in the case have real-life consequences for consumers and businesses in the United States.
Banks around the world use financial benchmarks to set the interest rates on many of the loans they make. The most prominent of those benchmarks is the London interbank offered rate, Libor. 
In setting the overall interest on loans, banks often ask borrowers to pay Libor - the three-month rate on Wednesday was 0.46 percent - plus an added amount of interest. As Libor moves up, the borrower pays more, and vice versa. For instance, America's top four mortgage lenders - Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Wells Fargo and U.S. Bancorp - all use Libor to establish interest payments on adjustable-rate mortgages.
Given its extensive reach, it would seem critical that Libor be calculated in an impartial and transparent manner. But the opposite seems to have been the case. In a settlement announced Wednesday, regulators in the United States and Britain said that the British bank Barclays had manipulated Libor to increase its traders' profits over several years. Barclays agreed to pay over $450 million to resolve the accusations; other large banks are expected to enter similar settlements.
''It's very important that we caught these guys,'' said Bart Chilton, a commissioner at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, one of the regulators. ''Libor may sound like gobbledygook, but it's the world benchmark for interest rates consumers pay.''
Conflicts arise from the fact that banks both set Libor and use it elsewhere in their businesses to make profits.
Libor is supposed to be a collective representation of the interest rates on short-term loans that banks make to each other. The Libor-setting banks each day tell a central entity how much interest they estimate they would have to pay on such loans.
That entity then eliminates some of the lowest and highest submissions and calculates an average from the remainder. Eighteen banks currently supply data for setting dollar-denominated Libor. According to regulators, Barclays traders sought to skew Libor to benefit their bets. These trades were executed using financial contracts called derivatives that were linked to Libor.
Regulators say they found dozens of communications from 2005 to 2009 in which derivatives traders pressed another group of Barclays employees to try to influence Libor. The British Bankers' Association, which oversees the standards for calculating Libor, does not allow banks to use interest rates linked to derivatives to determine their Libor submissions.
While it might be hard for one bank among many to influence Libor, regulators felt Barclays was sometimes able to do so. In the findings for the Barclays settlement, the Justice Department said, ''the manipulation of the submissions affected the fixed rates on some occasions.''
Two big remaining questions are why banks still use Libor and why regulators do not appear to have pressed for it to be used less. There have been reports of its manipulation since 2008, yet the benchmark continues to be widely used.
There are alternatives to Libor. For instance, banks can set adjustable-rate mortgages using the yields of Treasuries. Bank of America, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan and U.S. Bancorp, the big mortgage lenders, did not comment when asked why they were still using Libor to set rates on mortgages, and whether they would stop after seeing the allegations against Barclays.
The British Bankers' Association is not regulated. It is conducting a review of how Libor is set but has not said when that will be completed. The group says regulators ''are engaged'' with the review and ''will be kept fully informed.'' Brian Capon, a spokesman, said in an e-mail, ''The review is industry-led, so the authorities are not direct participants.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); BENCHMARKING (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FUTURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); BARCLAYS PLC (85%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); U S BANCORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); BCS (NYSE) (85%); BARC (LSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); USB (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1039 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Tentative Deal Reached on 2-Year Transportation Bill

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congressional Republicans and Democrats reached a tentative agreement on Wednesday on a two-year bill to finance highways, ending a partisan stalemate that had left transit projects under a cloud of uncertainty. 
The bill, which would provide $8.4 billion each year, is similar to a bipartisan measure passed by the Senate earlier this year. House Republicans worked on their own ambitious and unwieldy bill that never even made it to the floor for a vote.
In the agreement on Wednesday, House Republicans gave up on two key points: a provision that would have sped up the authorization of the Keystone XL pipeline and another that would have loosened restrictions on coal ash from power plants.
The new bill would reduce the average time it takes to complete a highway project by streamlining administrative processes and consolidating a variety of programs, as Republicans desired. ''That was one of the things we insisted on,'' said Representative John Mica of Florida, chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
The bill is almost certain to rile groups that are concerned with sustaining projects that have received money in the past. For instance, the measure now permits states to opt out of federal mandates that required them to spend highway money on programs like beautification and bike paths.
''The bill is funded at current levels, and it will protect and create three million jobs,'' said Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California and chairwoman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. ''This job creation is the critical focus of Democrats because we know that the unemployment rate in construction is at an unacceptable level.''
With an eye toward next week's recess, members of Congress are working into the witching hours every night this week trying to finish the bill before the current financing measure expires Saturday night. They will attach a measure to the highway bill that will extend for one year the 3.4 percent interest rate on subsidized Stafford loans. The rate for the student loan program was set to double on Sunday.
The $4.6 billion cost of extending the loan rate would be paid for through changes to how private pension interest payments are calculated, smoothing the fluctuations for businesses even as the total cost rises slightly, and through higher premiums for companies participating in the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
An additional $1.2 billion would come from adding new limitations to how long a student could receive Stafford loans, making it 150 percent of the average time it takes to complete a degree.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (90%); STUDENT LOANS (87%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); POWER PLANTS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); JOB CREATION (69%)

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%)

PERSON: BARBARA BOXER (58%); JOHN L MICA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1040 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Airbus Is Said to Plan A Factory in Alabama

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

 BODY:
PARIS -- Airbus, the European plane maker, plans to build its first assembly line in the United States in Mobile, Ala., in an aggressive foray into the world's largest market for single-aisle airplanes, people with knowledge of the plan said on Wednesday.
The plan calls for an investment of several hundred million dollars in a plant on Boeing's home turf that could eventually assemble dozens of Airbus's popular 150-seat A320 jets each year. Details are expected to be announced as early as Monday, said the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the plan was still confidential. 
In taking the plunge into the United States, Airbus is betting that American airlines, many of which have large fleets of aging jets, will be enticed to consider an A320 that was ''made in America'' over Boeing's competing 737. By assembling the planes with nonunion American workers, and in using dollars, Airbus also stands to reduce production costs.
Globally, Airbus and Boeing split the market for single-aisle planes fairly evenly. But in the United States, Airbus holds a 20 percent share.
North America is the biggest market for single-aisle planes. Airbus has forecast that nearly 70 percent of new jet sales worldwide over the next 20 years -- 19,200 aircraft worth $1.4 trillion by 2030 -- will be of this type. Forty percent of those planes are expected to replace aging, less fuel-efficient aircraft.
''If this is confirmed, it is nothing short of a tectonic shift in the dynamics of the North American aerospace market, with strong ramifications for both commercial and defense,'' said Michel Merluzeau, a managing partner at G2 Solutions, an aerospace consultancy in Kirkland, Wash.
''That Airbus is considering doing this suggests that they view investment in Alabama as a necessary tool to maintain their competitiveness in North America,'' he said.
But the move to open an American factory could raise eyebrows in European capitals and among labor unions -- particularly in France, where the new Socialist government of President Francois Hollande has said it will seek to punish companies that move jobs overseas with tax penalties and with the withdrawal of certain state subsidies. Airbus opened its first non-European assembly line in China four years ago.
Stefan Schaffrath, a spokesman for Airbus in Toulouse, France, said Wednesday that the company had ''nothing to announce at this point.''
But Fabrice Bregier, the chief executive of Airbus, was quoted in a Spanish newspaper interview published on Wednesday as saying that an American assembly line was ''part of a stream of ideas in our international development.''
''We are studying what we have to do to be close to our customers,'' Mr. Bregier told the newspaper, El Economista.
It was not immediately clear when Airbus expected the plant to open or how many planes it would initially produce. Its plant in Tianjin, China, assembles three planes a month, 8 percent of Airbus's global output of single-aisle planes.
Mr. Merluzeau estimated that it would be three to four years before a Mobile plant would be ready to begin operations.
An agreement to build an assembly line in Mobile would be the culmination of a seven-year on-again, off-again courtship between Alabama officials and Airbus's parent company, European Aeronautic Defense and Space.
As long ago as 2005, EADS, which already has an engineering site in Mobile, proposed building a $600 million assembly line for its larger A330 aircraft as part of a bid for a $35 billion United States Air Force contract for aerial fueling tankers that was awarded to Boeing last year.
An earlier move into the United States yielded significant payoffs for the company. The American market share of EADS's helicopter division, Eurocopter, doubled to around 50 percent after the company opened an assembly line in 2004 in Columbus, Miss., for its UH-72 Lakota and A-Star choppers.
European governments are likely to be wary of such a move by a company considered one of Europe's industrial jewels. But according to one person with knowledge of the plan, the governments are likely to be persuaded that it could eventually create as many as 10 jobs in Europe -- not only at Airbus, but also in its supplier network -- for every one job created in Alabama.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); AIRLINES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); INTERVIEWS (65%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOBILE, AL, USA (90%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1041 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: In Retail, Manhattan Outstrips Rest of City

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The retail success story in Manhattan is well known: a steadily growing influx of tourists has pushed per capita retail sales in the borough far higher than in the rest of the country.
But retailing in the city's other four boroughs is a far different story, one in which sales at most types of stores were significantly below national averages, indicating that many New Yorkers were shopping in Manhattan or outside the city, according to an analysis conducted by Eastern Consolidated, a real estate services company in Manhattan.
The notable exception was in stores selling health and personal care products, a category that includes drugstores, said Barbara Byrne Denham, an economist at Eastern Consolidated who conducted the study. Drugstore chains have become ubiquitous in the city in part by offering a variety of products commonly sold in supermarkets or general-merchandise stores like Target that are less common in the city, Ms. Denham said. 
''It means that outer-borough residents have to buy their laundry detergent at Duane Reade, where it's expensive, whereas most Americans buy their laundry detergent at a store like Target, where it's cheaper,'' she said. ''To me, that's unfortunate.''
In Alonzo Lawrence's neighborhood in the Mott Haven section of the South Bronx, not even a Duane Reade or a CVS store is in sight. The nearest department stores are a long subway or bus ride away.
Mr. Lawrence, 75, said that when he wanted to shop for clothes, he traveled across the Bronx to Parkchester or Co-op City, or all the way into Manhattan to Macy's in Herald Square. Wearing a white jogging suit and a straw boater while waiting for a city bus, Mr. Lawrence said the discount-shopping options had improved in recent years with the addition of a Costco store in East River Plaza in Harlem -- still an interborough subway or bus ride away -- and a BJ's Wholesale Club on the far side of the Grand Concourse.
Despite living about as far away from a chain drugstore as a New Yorker can, Mr. Lawrence said he was more satisfied with the shopping in his neighborhood than with the food choices.
''They could use one or two nice restaurants,'' he said, nodding toward the corner of 138th Street and Willis Avenue. That intersection did not offer a Starbucks, a bank branch or a chain store of any kind. Instead, it was crowded with small shops like Jimbo's hamburgers and El Shorty Barbershop.
The only sign of a popular chain's moving in was at the former site of a corner bar -- across the street from the 40th Precinct police station -- which workers were transforming into a Dunkin' Donuts. That chain had more than 465 locations in the city last year, including 65 in the Bronx, according to an annual tally of chain stores conducted by the Center for an Urban Future, a public-policy research group.
Mr. Lawrence was not thrilled. ''I'm not a doughnut person,'' he said.
But the first appearance of a chain outlet could be a harbinger of a retail influx, said Jonathan Bowles, director of the center. ''Retailers first put down a presence in Manhattan, but today they see the boroughs outside of Manhattan as huge areas of untapped opportunity.'' However, he added, there are ''significant pockets of the boroughs that are under-retailed still.''
Mr. Bowles noted that Windsor Terrace, a fairly affluent section of Brooklyn, was about to lose its only grocery, a Key Food store, which is scheduled to close on Saturday. The next occupant of the space is expected to be a Walgreens. Local officials are appealing to Walgreens management to sell produce in the store. In the meantime, Councilman Brad Lander, who represents the district, is trying to organize car pools to help older residents get to the nearest alternative.
According to the latest census data available, Ms. Denham said, the gap between spending habits in Manhattan and that of the other boroughs was wide. In 2007, she said, the amount of retail sales per Manhattan resident -- $23,250 -- was almost triple the national average, and had grown about twice as fast as the national average in five years. Much of that spending was attributable to tourists, who have been flooding into Manhattan in rising numbers, she said.
But in the other boroughs, per capita retail sales were lower than the national average. In the Bronx, they totaled $3,362, less than half the national average. Ms. Denham estimated that by this year, the per capita sales in the Bronx were still about half the national average despite the citywide gains in retailing and retail jobs.
The figures indicate that there is still a lot of unmet demand from shoppers in the other boroughs. Per capita sales there are significantly below the national numbers in stores that sell clothing, electronics or furniture, and even in general-merchandise stores like Target.
Target has nine stores in the city, including three in Brooklyn and three in Queens, but it has not saturated the city in the way the drugstore chains have. Among them, Duane Reade, CVS, Rite Aid and Walgreens had a total of 640 stores in the city last year, according to the Center for an Urban Future.
Ms. Denham said the presence of grocery-delivery services like FreshDirect had made it harder for small grocery stores to survive in the city. The numbers she analyzed show that a lot of residents of Brooklyn, Queens, the Bronx and even Staten Island are shopping at drugstores or heading to the suburbs to load up at big-box stores like Costco.
Ms. Denham, who lives on the Upper West Side, said she often dashed from her son's soccer games on Randalls Island to the Target in Harlem to stock up on household staples.
''Everyone wants a Target in their neighborhood,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Many neighborhoods in boroughs outside Manhattan have few retail options besides drugstores. Along a stretch of East 138th Street in the Bronx, there are no food or clothing chain stores. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); POLICE FORCES (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); BANK BRANCHES (50%)

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (80%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (57%)

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (80%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (80%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1042 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Report Highlights a Rise In Reverse Mortgages

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As baby boomers edge toward retirement, they are beginning to transform yet another slice of the financial industry: the market for reverse mortgages, a type of loan in which older homeowners borrow against the value of their house.
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, in a report to be released Thursday, said that the number of consumers taking out a reverse mortgage at their first opportunity -- age 62, under federal law -- has jumped drastically. In 2011, 9 percent of reverse-mortgage borrowers were age 62, up from 2 percent during the 1990s. Nearly half of recent borrowers are under 70. 
The number of reverse-mortgage originations has fallen since it peaked at 115,000 before the financial crisis; last year, 72,000 loans were issued. But the bureau said it had begun to see renewed interest in the loans, 582,000 of which are currently outstanding, representing $136 billion of home value.
A growing portion of reverse-mortgage consumers are taking the proceeds in a lump sum, rather than in a stream of payments. And they often are using the proceeds to pay off other debt -- a troubling trend, the bureau said in the report, which was undertaken as required under the Dodd-Frank regulatory law.
Reverse mortgages have grown in popularity because, for most Americans, their biggest asset is their investment in their home. But that asset provides no regular income.
By borrowing against the value, with the amount owed growing over the life of the loan, homeowners can take cash out of their home to supplement retirement income.
The loans are attractive because they do not require any payments until the borrower's death or the sale of the house. But authorities said the products have also led to abusive conduct in the sale and marketing of the loans.
''Though many American are aware of reverse mortgages, they struggle greatly to understand this complicated product and the trade-offs involved,'' Richard Cordray, director of the consumer bureau, said Wednesday.
''People often have misconceptions about how their needs may change as they age in their homes. Some are unaware that a reverse mortgage is a loan, let alone one with negative amortization, as the loan balance rises over time.''
Under the Dodd-Frank law, the consumer bureau can set requirements for the sale of reverse mortgages.
The Federal Reserve had started to consider rules for the product; its authority has now been shifted over to the consumer bureau, which said it ''will consider measures to ensure that the reverse mortgage market is working well for consumers and responsible lenders.''
The report acknowledges that the National Reverse Mortgage Lenders Association has been developing a disclosure form that lists the obligations of borrowers and that details how the failure to meet those obligations could result in a borrower losing his or her home.
The consumer bureau is asking for comment on the report and on what influences consumers' decision making. Also of interest to the bureau are details on compensation practices in the industry. Comments are due within 60 days.
Homeowners who have a reverse mortgage must pay property taxes and maintain homeowners insurance over the course of the loan.
But ''a surprisingly large proportion'' of borrowers -- 9.4 percent, the bureau said -- apparently spent the proceeds of the mortgages elsewhere and failed to pay taxes and insurance and therefore risked foreclosure.
Roughly 70 percent of borrowers in 2011 took their reverse mortgage in a lump sum, the bureau found; as recently as 2008, that figure was 40 percent. By taking the loans when they did not have an immediate need for the money, consumers may find themselves without the resources to pay for a future move or health care, the bureau said.
Norma Garcia, a senior attorney at Consumers Union, which also has studied the reverse mortgage market, said the results of the consumer bureau's study indicates ''a pressing need to look more closely at the issues.''
Reverse mortgages can be a reasonable tool in a financial portfolio, Ms. Garcia said. ''But it has to be the right borrower and it has to be the right loan,'' she added.
Advertisements for reverse mortgages have become a staple of cable television, often featuring celebrity spokesmen, including Henry Winkler and Robert Wagner.
When the Government Accountability Office conducted a study of reverse-mortgage marketing in 2009, it found several regularly advertised misleading claims, including that borrowers can ''never lose'' their home or that a reverse mortgage is a government benefit.
Mr. Cordray said the government-benefit claim was made recently on a mailing that advertised reverse mortgages; the marketing material also contained false information about loan repayment options.
''The mailer came with what appeared to be a government seal,'' Mr. Cordray said, ''and claimed that a phony piece of legislation would help seniors save their homes.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REVERSE MORTGAGES (95%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); TRENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1043 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1413 words

HEADLINE: A Victory for Regulators

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
Regulators delivered the first blow in a major investigation into whether big banks had improperly set key interest rates that affected how consumers and companies borrowed money around the world.
On Wednesday, Barclays agreed to pay $450 million to resolve accusations that it had tried to manipulate rates to benefit the bank's own bottom line. At the height of the financial crisis, regulators say, the big British bank reported bogus figures that in some cases had influenced a benchmark for student loans, credit cards and mortgages.
The Barclays deal, struck with regulators in Washington and London and the Justice Department, caps a multiyear investigation that yielded one of the largest regulatory penalties tied to the financial crisis. The settlement is the first in a series of potential cases against other financial firms, including HSBC, Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase.
Regulators are worried that big banks set certain rates to their own advantage, in an effort to lift profits during the crisis and fend off concerns that their health was ailing. Such benchmarks, including the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and the Euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, are used to determine the lending rates for corporations and consumers. 
The Barclays settlement, which offers clues about the scope of the inquiry, may provide a template for future actions. The deal also lays the groundwork for broader reform measures that could reshape how banks report benchmark rates. As part of the settlement, Barclays agreed to adopt new controls and measures to prevent a repeat of the regulatory breakdown.
''The honesty and integrity of a benchmark like Libor is critical because Libor itself courses through all the facets of borrowing and lending in our economy,'' said Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the American regulator involved in the Barclays case. ''Banks must not attempt to influence'' the rates, he said, to protect ''their reputation or the profitability of their trading positions.''
In the Barclays case, regulators say they uncovered ''pervasive'' wrongdoing that spanned a four-year period and touched top rungs of the firm, including members of senior management and traders stationed in London, New York and Tokyo. A 45-page complaint laid bare the scheme that unfolded from 2005 to 2009, describing how Barclays had made false reports with the aim of manipulating rates to increase the bank's profits. Barclays was also accused of ''aiding attempts by other banks to manipulate'' Euribor.
Traders seeking favorable rates received a welcome reception from bank employees who set the benchmark. ''Always happy to help,'' one employee said in an e-mail.
The bank also submitted artificially low figures to depress Libor and deflect scrutiny about its health. At the time, the bank faced concerns that its high borrowing rates pointed to a weak financial position. The practice of submitting false numbers prompted unease among some employees, who worried the bank was ''being dishonest by definition.''
''When a bank acts in its own self-interest by attempting to manipulate these rates for profit, or by submitting false reports that result from senior management orders to lower submissions to guard the bank's reputation, the integrity of benchmark interest rates is undermined,'' said David Meister, the trading commission's enforcement director.
The Barclays settlement represents a record for the C.F.T.C., Wall Street's smallest watchdog. The trading commission levied a $200 million penalty, the largest in its history.
The Financial Services Authority in London imposed a record $92.8 million fine, while the Justice Department had a $160 million penalty. As part of the accord, the Justice Department agreed not to prosecute Barclays.
''For this illegal conduct, Barclays is paying a significant price,'' said Lanny Breuer, an assistant attorney general.
Federal prosecutors are continuing a criminal investigation into other banks and their employees. And while no Barclays executives were named in the actions, the London authorities are still investigating some employees in the matter, according to a person briefed on the matter.
''Barclays' misconduct was serious, widespread and extended over a number of years,'' Tracey McDermott, acting director of enforcement and financial crime at the Financial Services Authority, said in a statement.
Robert Diamond, the bank's chief executive, expressed contrition and underscored the recent changes at Barclays. Mr. Diamond said that he and three other top executives had voluntarily agreed to give up their bonuses this year. Most of the traders involved in the case have left the bank, according to people briefed on the matter.
''The events which gave rise to today's resolutions relate to past actions which fell well short of the standards to which Barclays aspires in the conduct of its business,'' Mr. Diamond said in a statement. ''When we identified those issues, we took prompt action to fix them and cooperated extensively and proactively with the authorities.''
In the aftermath of the financial crisis, global regulators are examining whether many of the world's largest banks tried to manipulate Libor, a measure of how much banks charge each other for loans. Analysts say the Libor system, which was created in 1986 and is overseen by Thomson Reuters on behalf of the British Bankers' Association, does not provide sufficient transparency about how banks set their daily interest rates for borrowing in the financial markets.
At least nine agencies, including the Justice Department, the Financial Services Authority of Britain and Financial Supervisory Agency of Japan, have centered their investigations on Libor. Authorities are also looking into the activity surrounding similar benchmarks known as Tibor, the Tokyo interbank offered rate, and Euribor.
Regulators in the United States have issued subpoenas to several banks - including Bank of America, UBS and Citigroup - to understand how Libor was set. The Competition Bureau of Canada is investigating the activities of JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank and several other major banks.
Libor and the other interbank rates are published daily, based on surveys from banks about the rates at which they could borrow money in the financial markets. Currently, more than a dozen financial firms, including JPMorgan, Bank of America and HSBC, provide information to set the daily American dollar Libor rate.
The Barclays case reveals that the bank shared information between its treasury departments, which help to set Libor, and its trading units, which buy and sell financial products on a daily basis. Financial institutions are expected to maintain so-called Chinese walls between divisions, to avoid sharing confidential information in pursuit of a profit.
But when a Barclays trader sought an advantageous yet bogus rate, an employee responded. ''For you, anything,'' one employee who submitted false rates said. Or, as another employee put it, ''Done ... for you big boy.''
The rosy feelings appeared to be mutual. One trader, after receiving a favorable rate from a bank employee, declared: ''I love you.'' Another trader called a colleague a ''superstar'' for playing ball.
Traders even sent themselves electronic calendar notifications to remind themselves about what rates to seek from Barclays employees who submitted the figures, according to regulators.
Some of the most troubling actions, regulators say, occurred between 2007 and 2009. As bank financing costs rose to new highs after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, regulators worried that firms might have submitted low interest rate figures that underpin Libor, making their financial positions look stronger.
Amid speculation that the bank was struggling to raise money, Barclays' senior management asked employees to lower the rates submitted to the Libor committee, according to the regulatory filings. Management wanted the bank's rates in line with rivals. Senior Barclays executives instructed employees not to put your ''head above the parapet.''
Some employees resisted, but eventually followed orders from top executives, according to regulatory documents. One concerned employee called the rates ''patently false.''
''I will reluctantly, gradually and artificially get my libors in line,'' another person said.
Barclays statement of facts from the Justice Department
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Diamond, chief of Barclays, said the bank worked to fix problems and cooperated with the authorities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEROME FAVRE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 David Meister, the commission's enforcement director. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVE CROSS PHOTOGRAPHY) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); EURO (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FUTURES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (63%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (53%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1044 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Strength in Energy Sector Helps Buoy Markets

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Wednesday as stronger-than-expected economic data helped lift energy stocks, overshadowing concerns that a European Union summit meeting would not yield progress in easing the euro zone's debt crisis. 
The energy sector showed the strongest gains among the 10 major groups in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Cabot Oil and Gas jumped 9 percent to $41.24 and was the biggest advancer on the S. & P. 500.
Worries about Europe have fed sharp sell-offs in stocks lately, but the declines have been tempered by enough short-term buying to keep the market confined to a trading range.
''Sentiment is pretty negative,'' said Douglas Foreman, director of equities at Kayne Anderson Rudnick Investment Management. ''When you get people this depressed, markets have a tendency to bounce and that is pretty much where we are at right now.''
Investors seemed encouraged by a better-than-expected report on orders for long-lasting manufactured goods in May, which rose 1.1 percent.
Signed contracts for home purchases jumped 5.9 percent in May to a seven-month high. The PHLX housing sector index climbed 3 percent, taking the year-to-date gains near 26 percent.
Shares of Lennar, a leading home builder, rose 4.8 percent to $28.70 after it reported a rise in new orders for the fifth straight quarter.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 92.34 points, or 0.74 percent, to close at 12,627.01. The S.& P. 500 index advanced 11.86 points, or 0.90 percent, to close at 1,331.85. The Nasdaq composite index added 21.26 points, or 0.74 percent, to close at 2,875.32.
But uncertainty remained ahead of the meeting of European Union leaders, which begins on Thursday. Few expect anything concrete to emerge from the two-day meeting after Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said debt-sharing, an idea backed by France, Italy and Spain, would not happen in her lifetime.
Health care stocks were in focus ahead of Thursday's decision on the 2010 health care law from the United States Supreme Court.
Many investors expect the requirement that uninsured Americans purchase health insurance to be overturned, ''so people have had plenty of time to position their portfolios for that,'' Mr. Foreman said.
Arena Pharmaceuticals surged 28.7 percent to $11.39 on news that the Food and Drug Administration had approved the drug maker's pill to treat obesity, the first new weight-loss drug in 13 years. The Nasdaq biotechnology index gained 1.5 percent.
Shares of Vivus and Orexigen Therapeutics jumped. The companies are also hoping to take weight-loss drugs to market. Vivus shares were up 7.4 percent to $28.33 and Orexigen Therapeutics rose 20.3 percent to $4.92.
Some of Wall Street's top analysts published research about Facebook, and most are cautiously optimistic. Facebook shares fell 2.6 percent, to $32.23, after gaining more than 20 percent in the previous two weeks.
In the bond market, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 2/32, to 101 6/32, while its yield fell to 1.62 percent, from 1.63 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); WEIGHT LOSS DRUGS (84%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); APPROVALS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (72%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); OBESITY (65%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (65%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (65%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (65%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%); DIETING (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); HEALTH CARE LAW (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (60%); BARIATRICS (60%)

COMPANY: KAYNE ANDERSON RUDNICK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LLC (70%); CABOT OIL & GAS MARKETING CORP (57%); CABOT OIL & GAS CORP (57%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (55%); ARENA PHARMACEUTICALS INC (51%); OREXIGEN THERAPEUTICS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

TICKER: COG (NYSE) (57%); ARNA (NASDAQ) (51%); OREX (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1045 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: As His Optimistic Budget Falters, Christie Comes Out Swinging

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey promised a have-your-cake-and-eat-it-too budget for next year, one that would make the state's pension payments, increase money for schools, provide drug treatment for nonviolent criminals, restore tax credits for the working poor and give every taxpayer a 10 percent income tax cut.
At $32 billion, the proposal for the next fiscal year -- unveiled in February -- included the biggest spending increase of any governor in the country. But it was based on one of the most optimistic revenue projections in the country, too, assuming that taxes and fees paid to the state would rise 7.2 percent.
Now those projections are coming up short. With unemployment in New Jersey still higher than the national average, tax revenues have failed to meet targets for several months in a row. Depending on whether you believe the governor, the nonpartisan legislative office that analyzes the budget, or the rating agency Moody's, the state will take in anywhere from $704 million to $2.2 billion less than it had anticipated. 
But far from backing down, Mr. Christie has reacted in character. He derided the director of the nonpartisan office who downgraded the revenue estimates as a partisan hack, a ''Dr. Kevorkian of the numbers.'' And he doubled down on his bet, insisting that even with reduced revenue, the state could still afford the $183 million tax cut.
To make the numbers work, he proposed doing what he said he would not: borrowing $260 million from transportation projects that he had planned to pay for in cash so he could transfer money from the state's Transportation Trust Fund to cover holes in the budget.
The governor, a Republican, had already filled the trust fund with money from a project to build a Hudson River train tunnel, which he canceled in 2010. His budget includes an additional $500 million in other one-time transfers -- a tactic he derided as a gimmick when his Democratic predecessors did it.
Democrats, who control the Legislature, approved a budget this week that looks largely like Mr. Christie's, including the $183 million tax cut, but with this condition: The cut will kick in only if the revenues the governor is predicting come in as promised in January.
Mr. Christie is unlikely to veto the entire budget, which would shut down the government starting Sunday, when the 2013 fiscal year begins. Instead, he will fight the way he typically wins: in public relations. He promises to flog Democrats ''all long, hot summer'' in town-hall-style meetings, the kind that have made him a YouTube sensation and a superstar of the national Republican Party.
''We're going on tour!'' he declared at the latest one, in largely Republican Bergen County on Wednesday.
But even some in the audiences -- almost uniformly adoring crowds -- suggest that the governor may be in a bind.
On Friday, at a town-hall-style event in Readington, in well-off Hunterdon County, a man stood up holding a flier that the governor's staff had distributed, which boasted of a ''New Jersey Comeback'' that would allow an increase in spending as well as the tax cut.
Wouldn't this require the kind of borrowing that got the state in trouble before? ''I'd like to know what the remainder of the plan will be,'' the man said.
Mr. Christie, who typically conducts the back and forth of these events at sitcom speed, was uncharacteristically slow to respond. First he asked to see the flier. He read it while the audience sat silently. Then he summoned his favorite boogeyman, his Democratic predecessor, arguing, ''It's still lower than Jon Corzine's 2008 budget.''
''We're not borrowing money to be able to spend money,'' he added. ''We're borrowing for long-term capital interests -- roads and bridges. Those are the things you should be borrowing for.''
But Mr. Christie has built his reputation on making what he calls ''the hard choices.'' His early budgets reflected fiscal conservatism: he began paying off pension obligations, required public workers to pay more for their benefits and managed to keep a healthy surplus for a rainy day.
Now, even if revenue comes in as he hopes, he has set the state up for higher debt costs down the road. And the surplus cushion he put in the budget is smaller than that of any other state.
Mr. Christie has had to assume such high revenue in part because of tax cuts he already made. According to the Office of Legislative Services, a cut in corporate taxes cost $70 million in 2012, and next year, will cost $127.5 million. Many wonder why Mr. Christie is focused on an income-tax cut -- a woman in Readington asked the governor why he did not cut property taxes, which are a much higher burden.
The income-tax cut would give back about $275 a year to a family earning $100,000. Polls show most residents would prefer a property tax cut. An editorial cartoon in The Star-Ledger of Newark this month caricatured the governor as saying: ''I promised you an income-tax cut you don't need and we can't afford, and I'm willing to borrow millions and shut down the government to get it!!''' The caption: ''Chris Christie: fiscal conservative.''
Democrats insist that the governor has an eye on Tampa, Fla., where the Republicans will have their national convention this summer. Mr. Christie is often discussed as a vice-presidential candidate or a keynote speaker, perhaps to set up a future run for president. A 10 percent tax cut sounds good, but cutting the property tax by that much would cost about $500 million, compared with $183 million for the income-tax cut proposal.
The Democrats argue they are the ones who have actually made tax cuts: among the few changes they made to the governor's budget proposal is a plan to give municipalities money they had been promised from energy tax receipts, which they can then use to avoid raising property taxes.
The Democrats also restored the earned-income tax credit, which the governor had promised but not included in his plan until 2014. They also voted to give property tax credits of from 10 percent to 20 percent on the first $10,000 paid by people earning up to $250,000.
''We've given him true tax cuts on property taxes, and we've identified the revenue with which to give them,'' said Louis Greenwald of Camden, the leader of the Democratic majority in the State Assembly.
But to assist with property taxes, they voted to raise the marginal tax rate on the state's 16,000 millionaires, to 10.75 percent from 8.97 percent.
Mr. Christie's aides say that makes the Democrats' argument hard and his easy: I want to give you a tax break; Democrats -- ''Corzine Democrats,'' as he has branded them recently -- want to raise taxes instead.
Paul A. Sarlo, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, scoffed at that idea. ''When you have a responsible plan such as ours, it's easy to explain,'' Senator Sarlo, of Wood-Ridge, said.
''We've taken the high road,'' he added. ''These are his revenue projections; he's got to live and die by them.''
At a town-hall event on Tuesday in Brick, Mr. Christie referred to Mr. Sarlo with a profanity. It was just a preview of his long, hot summer.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 2012 

 CORRECTION:
 A Political Memo article on Thursday about the proposed budget of Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey for fiscal year 2013 misstated the anticipated percentage increase in revenue and also overstated a comparison of the state's revenue projections. The governor anticipated that revenue would rise 7.2 percent, not 7.3 percent. And his projection is the second most optimistic in the country (behind California's), not the most optimistic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); VETO (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (72%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); CREDIT BUREAUS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1046 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2201 words

HEADLINE: The New Second Home

BYLINE: By JENNIFER A. KINGSON

 BODY:
MANY of them have carpeting, heating and air-conditioning, indoor and outdoor lighting, elaborate music and entertainment systems. Some are even eco-friendly, with solar panels or planted green roofs.
In fact, the only superfluous accessory in the modern doghouse may be the dog.
Take, for instance, the Palladian-style mini-mansion that Glenna and Ed Hall bought at a charity auction three years ago for about $300. With Jeffersonian columns that match the ones on their home in Roanoke, Va., the two-foot-tall doghouse makes a perfect accent for the garden. No one seems to mind that the garden is off-limits to Maggie May, their 28-pound whippet-borzoi mix -- least of all Maggie May.
''We bought the house because it looks a lot like our house,'' said Mrs. Hall, 66, a retired interior designer. ''Maggie's never been in it. She's a house dog.'' 
Traditionally, doghouses were where dogs actually lived, separate from the family. But now that dogs are increasingly considered members of the family, their homes are becoming more like second homes -- and in some cases, they're entirely ornamental. Sure, there are still plenty of doghouses built for dogs to live in. But there are also an impressive number built the way Christian Louboutin makes shoes: you can walk in them (sort of), but clearly that's not the point.
As Michelle Pollak, an interior designer who creates custom doghouses under the name La Petite Maison, observed: ''Half our clients say, 'Hey, we'd like a replica of our home for the dog,' and half say, 'This is the dream house we've always envisioned but couldn't afford in real life' -- like a French palace for the French poodle.''
No detail is too small, right down to the hand-painted portrait of the dog in residence. For the supermodel Rachel Hunter's showpiece doghouse in the Los Angeles area, Ms. Pollak supplied hand-painted wallcovering dotted with pawprints and bones, as well as framed pictures of dogs. Her business partner, a builder named Alan Mowrer, installed wrought-iron light fixtures and terra-cotta flooring. ''Alan had to hand-make every tile of the Mediterranean roof,'' Ms. Pollak said.
The average price of their doghouses is about $5,000 or $6,000, she said, though it's not unheard of for people to spend north of $25,000. (Ms. Hunter's was more than $16,000, Ms. Pollak said, although she could not recall an exact figure.)
Another client, Guillermo Gonzales, is a 43-year-old entrepreneur who lives outside Austin, Tex., in a 5,000-square-foot Victorian-inspired home with four pet pigs. The ''boys,'' as Mr. Gonzales refers to them, are 4-year-old Vietnamese potbellieds, Augustus (120 pounds) and Vito (95 pounds), who have fearsome tusks but sweet dispositions, he says. They live in a specially built 300-square-foot addition to the house furnished with hay and blankets.
But the ''girls,'' Cherry and Abby, 6-month-old micro-minis that weigh no more than seven pounds each, sleep in a six-foot-square replica of Mr. Gonzales's home that sits in the corner of his safari-themed living room, not far from taxidermied busts of a zebra and an impala.
''The corner I put it in, it looks like kind of a plantation farm in a safari in South Africa,'' Mr. Gonzales said.
The back story? Mr. Gonzales had a business partner with a bulldog named Tank, and envisioned the doghouse, for which he paid $2,500 at a charity auction, as a gift for them. But Tank died before he could move in, so the house went to the pigs.
''Originally, I was just going to put it in the backyard,'' Mr. Gonzales said. ''But it's so beautiful that I didn't want it to get destroyed by the weather.''
Such excess can be an invitation to criticism, but Ms. Pollak, the interior designer, offered a quick rebuttal. ''People will come and say, 'This is such a waste of money, why would anybody do this?' '' she said. ''All I can say is that if you have the money, what's the difference between spending it on a pet house or on a piece of diamond jewelry?''
Besides, she said, many of her clients build houses for dogs they have either rescued or adopted from shelters. One client, in fact, had a disabled rescue dog for which Ms. Pollak and Mr. Mowrer created a handicapped-accessible home. ''Alan adjusted all of the windows and the doors to allow the dog to see out the window,'' she said, ''even if he was lying down.''
DOGHOUSE design tends to be popular with architects and home builders, who sometimes refer to it as ''barkitecture'' and donate their creations to charity auctions that raise money for animal shelters. Designers say they love doghouses because they're small and fun and allow lots of room for creativity.
As Brian Pickard, an architect in Philadelphia, put it: ''If I build a doghouse and somebody is anticipating that it's going to last 10 years in their backyard, it's different from designing a house that somebody is expecting will last for 50 years. I can be more experimental.''
Mr. Pickard, 29, got his start as an architecture student at Ohio State University, designing a modernist doghouse inspired by the work of the Swiss architect Mario Botta. He called it the (Sub)urban doghouse and gave it to his parents for their chocolate lab, Nash.
''It kind of began as a simple design exercise, looking at something that didn't deal with building code and clients who weren't going to change the program halfway through,'' he said. ''It became a way to experiment with styles and construction methods.''
For his neighbor, Dave Shahriari, a 31-year-old high school vice principal, Mr. Pickard recently designed a doghouse to shelter Thor, a 90-pound Alapaha Blue Blood bulldog, and Thor's mother, Lucy, who spend part of the day outside. ''When it rains, they need someplace to hang out,'' Mr. Shahriari said.
To offer inspiration, he told Mr. Pickard that he admired the work of Tod Williams and Billie Tsien, whose firm designed the new home for the Barnes Foundation art collection in Philadelphia. ''It's kind of very clean and modern,'' Mr. Shahriari said, observing that his five-by-three-foot doghouse seems to echo that aesthetic.
FOR dogs who don't spend even part of the day outdoors, there are still plenty of choices. FormaItalia, a division of the Italian furniture maker Chiavari, sells lacquered indoor kennels and pet beds that can be suspended from the ceiling. Denhaus, a company in Seattle, makes dog crates disguised as household furniture. The Townhaus, a square wooden table, doubles as a holding pen for naughty puppies, and the BowHaus, a circular silver cocktail table, can hold drinks on top and a dog inside.
M. Brandon Smith, who owns a wine company called Small Cellars, bought one BowHaus for his home in Birmingham, Ala., and another for his lake house in northern Alabama after he and his wife, Kim, got a small fluffy white dog for their 5-year-old son, Chance.
''I had absolutely no interest in putting a regular plastic crate in either of the houses,'' Mr. Smith said, adding that the dog, Margaux, a Coton de Tulear, retreats happily to the designer crate, which is centrally located in both houses, in the living and dining area.
The family entertains frequently, and the doghouse is a conversation piece. ''People just think it's a coffee table,'' Mr. Smith said. ''And then 20 or 30 minutes later the dog goes in there, people will realize, 'Oh my God, it's a crate.' ''
Barbara Dalhouse, president of the Roanoke Valley S.P.C.A. in Virginia, keeps her Hobbit-style wooden doghouse inside because it is ''too beautiful,'' she said, to put outdoors. Carved from a log retrieved from a swamp in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina, the 50-inch-tall shingled hut is topped with an acorn and ''looks like a gnome would live in it,'' she said. But the sole resident is a stuffed squirrel.
''The cats look in every now and then,'' she said. ''And Lucy the beagle walks by. But they say, 'Uh-uh, we're couch people.' ''
Hugo, a white French bulldog in Mill Valley, Calif., has a similar attitude toward his eco-doghouse, a designer structure complete with a green roof.
''It's hard to get a dog to love the doghouse,'' said Eric McFarland, 37, a real estate agent who owns Hugo with his spouse, Brad Krefman, a 30-year-old interior designer. ''He'd rather be in our bed.''
The doghouse, which was built by a company called Modern Cabana, sits near the pool outside the couple's home, a modern wood-and-glass house in the style of the architect Joseph Eichler, Mr. McFarland said. It normally sells for $650, but one of the owners of Modern Cabana, Nick Damner, handled the couple's renovation (doghouses are just a sideline for the company, which specializes in prefabricated buildings), and he threw in the doghouse as a gift.
''It's a cute little piece in the yard, so it works for us,'' Mr. McFarland said, even if it doesn't particularly work for the dog.
WHILE the market for high-end doghouses is, understandably, a limited one, those who sell them say that, despite the recession, business has remained steady. The Little Cottage Company, in Ohio, makes some of the most picturesque doghouses available online, including the Victorian Cottage Kennel Dog House ($4,400 at Walmart.com) and the Cape Cod Cozy Cottage Kennel Dog House ($4,600 at Walmart; prices vary depending on the seller). Dan Schlabach, who owns the company, estimates that he sells somewhere between 10 and 15 a year, a number that has remained fairly consistent.
Rockstar Puppy, an online company that sells pricey dog accessories through its Web site, advertises custom doghouses for as much as $20,000. Jessica Auria, who runs Rockstar Puppy, says she has sold a couple of them to celebrities, including one with heat and air-conditioning that can be controlled by an iPad.
Working with Barbara Thulin-Joyce, an interior designer, she created a doghouse for Jenni Farley, better known to fans of ''Jersey Shore'' as JWoww. The doghouse, which they gave to Ms. Farley as a marketing promotion, is now advertised on the Rockstar Puppy Web site for $12,000, complete with matching hot-pink beds and miniature fabric drapes with jeweled pink tie-backs.
Both women seem to have high aspirations in the doghouse design world.
''I've got all kinds of really great ideas that I want to do for doghouses,'' said Ms. Thulin-Joyce, who runs a pet decor boutique called Decadent Digs.
Like?
''Music that comes on when the dog walks in,'' she said. ''And windmills on top.''
A Doghouse With a Fan Club
THERE are many designer doghouses, but perhaps the only one with a cult following was, not surprisingly, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright. The doghouse was created in the 1950s at the request of Jim Berger, a 12-year-old who wrote to the architect to say that his black Labrador, Eddie, needed a home.
Wright wrote back that he was busy designing the Guggenheim Museum, but would gladly oblige later -- which he did.
''I was Frank Lloyd Wright's youngest client, and I was also his poorest,'' said Mr. Berger, now 68 and a retired high school teacher in Orangevale, Calif.
The context was that Mr. Berger's father, Robert, had written to Wright years earlier to request blueprints for a house for his family. Wright seems to have had a soft spot for the Bergers: he sent plans, at nominal cost, and Robert Berger spent about 20 years building the house, his daughter, Suzanne Berger, recalled. The family lived in the house, in San Anselmo, Calif., for many years, she said, but it is now on the market.
In 1956 or thereabouts, when Jim Berger sent his query to Wright on behalf of Eddie, he was concerned because the dog ''would sleep outside, and I didn't like that a bit,'' Mr. Berger said by telephone, his three beagles howling in the background. ''I wanted something where he would be comfortable.''
But by the time the plans arrived, he was in the Army, so his father built the doghouse, which was about three feet high and looked like the prow of a ship. ''It was extremely difficult to build,'' Jim Berger said. (Eddie, alas, had died by then and been replaced by other dogs.)
Architecture fans came from far and wide to look at the Bergers' place -- particularly Eddie's house. ''My mom had a beautiful home designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, but people would come up to see the doghouse specifically, and that kind of angered her,'' he said. Eventually, she got rid of it.
More recently, the documentary filmmaker Michael Miner, who has made several movies about Wright, came to interview the Bergers. At his urging, Jim Berger and his brother, Eric, rebuilt the doghouse last fall using the original plans. The new doghouse is on display at screenings of Mr. Miner's latest movie, ''Romanza: The California Structures Designed by Frank Lloyd Wright.''
By now, though, Mr. Berger is a little tired of the tale of the 12-year-old boy and his dog. ''Could you put in a plug for the S.P.C.A.?'' he asked. ''My dogs have a Frank Lloyd Wright doghouse, but there's a lot of dogs out there that need loving 'forever' homes.''
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:i.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ME? SLEEP HERE? Hugo, a French bulldog in California, has little use for his eco-doghouse, which has a succulent garden. But his owners like it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW KELLY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
DOGS OPTIONAL: Brian Pickard, above, designed the house for Thor. At right, from top, a house made for Jenni Farley of ''Jersey Shore''
the (Sub)urban Doghouse Mr. Pickard gave his parents
and a mini-mansion that Glenna and Ed Hall bought at a charity auction. Their dog does not use it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE LEGATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D6)
HOUSE TOUR: Above left, Lucy poses in front of a house built from a single log retrieved from a swamp after Hurricane Katrina. Center top, a doghouse sold at an auction sponsored by the Roanoke, Va., S.P.C.A.
center bottom, the Cape Cod Cozy Cottage from the Little Cottage Company.
CUSTOM: Above, a Colonial-style doghouse for a beagle by La Petite Maison to match a mansion in Denver. At left, the supermodel Rachel Hunter's Mediterranean-style doghouse. Also by La Petite Maison, it has terra-cotta floors and handmade roof tiles and wall art.
STYLISH: Guillermo Gonzales shares his pistachio-green home near Austin with four pigs, two of which are small enough to use the miniature replica of the house that he keeps in the safarithemed living room. Their hooves slide on the wood floors, so Mr. Gonzales installed a chile-pepper rug. (The two larger male pigs occupy a wing of the main house.) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STACY SODOLAK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 BY THE MASTER: The doghouse that Frank Lloyd Wright designed for the Berger family in San Anselmo, Calif., attracted as many visitors as the main house, which Wright also designed.(D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREEN BUILDING (90%); DOGS (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (75%); FAMILY (72%); AUCTIONS (71%); CHARITIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%); MEDITERRANEAN (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2012



1047 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Spain and Cyprus, Europe's Mightiest Banks Still Grapple With Crisis

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Five years after the financial crisis began, many banks throughout the euro zone are still in a weakened state, cut off from money markets because investors do not trust them, and effectively on life support from the European Central Bank.
While the talk has been mostly about Spain and Cyprus, European leaders meeting in Brussels on Thursday and Friday must confront broader problems in the banking system if they want to stabilize the euro zone, economists say.
What country could be next to face a banking crisis? It may not be one of the usual suspects. If the key elements are banks with exposure to declining economies, thin capital cushions and a government that would be stretched to finance a bailout, even France could be vulnerable.
Three of the four largest French banks had capital shortfalls even by the relatively lenient standards applied by European regulators, and the fourth has suffered a 27 percent share decline so far this year because of its exposure to Greece. 
Germany, considered the strongest economy in the euro zone, is still dealing with publicly owned landesbanks that made bad investments in boom times. Even Deutsche Bank, the country's largest, faced a downgrade by Moody's last week because of what the ratings agency said was too much dependence on trading revenue.
''The weakness is throughout the euro zone,'' said Marie Diron, an economist who advises the consulting firm Ernst & Young. ''Restructuring of the banking sector really hasn't taken place to the same extent as in the United States.''
The meeting in Brussels comes a few days after Spain and Cyprus formally requested aid for their troubled banks.
But the usual north-south divide that characterizes these meetings may not be as clear-cut when banks are the issue. Germany and Austria also have many ailing banks that are exposed to stricken euro zone countries like Spain and Italy, though they have stronger economies and their governments are in a better position to provide aid.
Indeed, one reason Greece and other countries have debt troubles is because banks in Germany and France were all too willing to extend credit.
The talks in Brussels could lay the groundwork for a so-called banking union, with centralized bank regulation and deposit insurance. Proponents say that a central regulator, possibly the E.C.B., might be more willing than national regulators to require weak banks to confront their problems and make changes.
''It is huge progress that everyone now is talking about banking union when nobody was two months ago,'' said Nicolas Veron, a senior fellow at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels. ''There is no longer denial of one of the core components of the crisis.''
But he and other analysts are skeptical that political leaders will be willing to expose their countries' financial institutions to greater scrutiny. Stress tests have so far failed to restore confidence in European banks because there is a perception that the national authorities tried to protect their own institutions.
''There has been a large political dimension,'' said Harald A. Benink, a professor of banking and finance at Tilburg University in the Netherlands.
Mr. Benink is chairman of the European Shadow Financial Regulatory Committee, a group of university professors who on Wednesday said that the European Stability Mechanism, a euro zone bailout fund, should be given power to recapitalize banks directly and negotiate restructuring plans. That approach would bypass politicians.
Euro zone banks were supposed to be fixed by now. Last year, the European Banking Authority assessed whether banks had adequate financial buffers, and pressured those that did not to raise more capital. The deadline for the banks to comply is this week.
Many of the top names in European finance are on the list, including Germany's two biggest banks, Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank. Both lenders said they raised the required capital well before the deadline.
Three out of four of France's biggest banks also made the list: Societe Generale, BNP Paribas and Groupe BPCE.
Executives of the banks maintain that they have made huge progress reducing risk, increasing capital and raising funds they can lend on to credit-strapped European businesses.
''I think it's fair to say we've made an effort to get ahead of the curve,'' said Lars Machenil, chief financial officer of BNP Paribas, which has already exceeded the capital reserve target set by the banking authority.
Societe Generale ''is more solid now than we were a year ago, in a world that is just as difficult as it was then,'' the bank's chief financial officer, Bertrand Badre, said. ''We have ample liquidity and have no trouble funding ourselves.''
Christophe Nijdam, a banking analyst at AlphaValue in Paris, agreed that the major French banks were in better shape than they were in the second half of 2011, when U.S. money market funds effectively cut them off from wholesale lending.
''They went on a fast diet, because they didn't have any choice,'' Mr. Nijdam said. ''They were like a rabbit caught in the headlights, mesmerized by the liquidity crisis.''
But financial indicators show that European banks remain under a cloud. The interbank market, in which banks lend excess cash to each other for short periods, is crippled because banks doubt each other's creditworthiness.
Lending to banks in the euro zone fell by $364 billion, or 5.9 percent, at the end of 2011, the largest drop since the end of 2008, according to the Bank for International Settlements. In another sign that banks are afraid to lend to each other, they have been parking near-record sums at the E.C.B., collecting a meager 0.25 percent return on the money.
On Tuesday, banks stashed 747 billion, or $931 billion, at the E.C.B. That was below highs of over 800 billion earlier this year but still well above normal.
''Banks have basically stopped trusting each other,'' Mr. Veron of Bruegel said.
While countries like Greece and Spain often face criticism for a lack of prudence that got them into trouble and caused the euro zone crisis, French and German banks were the enablers. During the boom years before 2008 they made huge loans to countries in Southern Europe, and today many banks remain vulnerable to the problems of those countries.
Private and public borrowers in Spain still owed 115 billion to French banks at the end of 2011, according to the Bank for International Settlements. Italian borrowers owed 332 billion to French banks and Greek borrowers owed an additional 44 billion.
Credit Agricole, the one French bank to get a clean bill of health from the European Banking Authority, has suffered a 27 percent plunge in its share price this year, much more than its peers, because investors worry about its exposure to Greece, where it has a large subsidiary.
Credit Agricole and BNP Paribas both have large operations in Italy, another country contending with big debt and bank problems.
German banks are less exposed to Greece, but are owed 134 billion by Italian borrowers and 146 billion by Spanish customers.
Economists say that regulators need to conduct a rigorous triage to separate healthy banks from those that need to be restructured and those that are mortally wounded.
At the end of this week, WestLB, once Germany's third-largest bank, will provide a rare example of an ailing bank that is being broken up.
Under pressure from E.U. competition authorities, the bank's toxic assets have been moved into a so-called bad bank, another part of the business has been sold and the remainder will continue to operate under the brand name Portigon.
More banks will probably have to undergo a similar process before the system is healthy again. But that will happen only if control is wrenched from the local authorities, said Xavier Vives, a professor of economics and finance at IESE Business School in Barcelona.
''What Europe has lacked is a clear line of authority,'' Mr. Vives said. ''A crisis needs much faster and coherent reactions.''
''The Spanish banking system,'' he said, ''is not the only one which has problems.''
David Jolly reported from Paris.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.
Correction: July 21, 2012, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on June 28 about the continued weakness of some European banks omitted a relevant detail about the French bank BNP Paribas, and in so doing may have left the impression that the bank was undercapitalized. While the bank was among those that the European Banking Authority listed last year as needing additional capital, it has since exceeded the capital reserve target the banking authority set.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Paris branch of Credit Agricole, which has a Greek unit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BALINT PORNECZI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); BANKING LAW (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (66%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (58%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CYPRUS (94%); SPAIN (94%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (93%); BELGIUM (91%); GREECE (90%); AUSTRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2012



1048 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
AFGHAN RAPE CASE
TURNS FOCUS ON POLICE
A young woman's accusation of rape and abduction against a local police unit is highlighting the persistence of tribal custom and the power of armed men in Afghanistan. The suspect in the case has insisted he could not have raped the teenage girl because a mullah had married them just before intercourse. PAGE A4
BEATING IN MACAU CASINO 
Stirring fears of a gang war, a senior figure in Macau's gambling industry was severely beaten by assailants in a restaurant at his own casino, the highest-profile case of violence in the city's booming gambling business since Portugal ceded control of the former colony to China in 1999. PAGE A6
PREHUMANS FEASTED ON BARK
Almost two million years after their last meals, two members of a prehuman species in southern Africa left traces in their teeth of what they had eaten. Scientists were surprised that the species apparently lived on leaves, fruits, wood and bark. PAGE A6
SYRIA USES MASS ARRESTS
While the world's attention has been focused on the military escalation in Syria, the government has also waged an unrelenting campaign of arrests that has snared tens of thousands of people. PAGE A10
National
A RECYCLING IDEAL SO CLOSE
THAT CITIES CAN SMELL IT
Places like Portland, Ore., and Seattle are cutting back on garbage collections. But the quest for ''zero waste'' comes at a pungent cost, with some people complaining about strong smells from garbage stewing in driveways for two weeks. PAGE A14
CHINA RIFT IN ROMNEY CAMP
It seemed a ripe opportunity for Mitt Romney: The crisis last month over the Chinese dissident Chen Guangcheng was a way to show President Obama was weak on human rights and China. Inside the campaign, though, differences emerged among staff and advisers as the crisis deepened. PAGE A15
ETHICS CASE IN S. CAROLINA
Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina is to face a State House ethics hearing over whether she blurred the lines between her work as a legislator and her work as a hospital fund-raiser and business consultant. PAGE A16
New York
CHRISTIE GEARS UP FOR BATTLE
AS BUDGET PROPOSAL FALTERS
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey promised a have-your-cake-and-eat-it-too budget for the next fiscal year. Now the projections are coming up short. Political Memo. PAGE A20
Business
EUROPE'S MIGHTIEST BANKS
STILL GRAPPLE WITH CRISIS
With many banks throughout the euro zone still in a weakened state, the next country to face a banking crisis may not be one of the usual suspects. PAGE B3
Sports
NUMBERS FOR SERVICE SPEED
IN TENNIS DON'T ADD UP
Service speed is a tour staple in tennis, but it is also an unreliable measure of excellence, in part because speeds tend to fluctuate depending on how they are recorded. PAGE B13
Arts
HALF THE MAN HE WAS,
AND FIGHTING RAGE
In his new FX sitcom, ''Anger Management,'' Charlie Sheen plays a watered-down blend of the two lead characters in his former show, ''Two and a Half Men,'' writes Alessandra Stanley. PAGE C1
Home
LUXURY DOGHOUSES
SPARE NO EXPENSE
Many have air-conditioning, entertainment systems and even solar panels. The only superfluous accessory in the modern doghouse may be the dog. PAGE D1
Style
TALES OF THE NEW YORKER
TOLD FROM THE 18TH FLOOR
A crowd packed into the National Arts Club in Manhattan to listen to a witty 75-year-old college professor, Janet Groth, tell stories of working at The New Yorker during the magazine's heyday in the 1950s and '60s -- as the 18th-floor receptionist. PAGE E1
Op-Ed
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEXUAL ASSAULT (92%); SEX OFFENSES (91%); GAMING (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); BUDGETS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); ETHICS (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); EURO ZONE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (62%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (60%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (60%); BANK FAILURES (60%); RELIGION (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); NIKKI HALEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (79%) CHINA (93%); MACAO (93%); EUROPE (92%); SYRIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); AFRICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1049 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Diplomatic Crisis Gives Romney Campaign a Chance to Work Out Its Policy

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

 BODY:
It seemed a ripe opportunity for Mitt Romney: The crisis that unfolded last month over the Chinese dissident Chen Guangcheng was a way to hammer President Obama as weak on human rights and unwilling to be assertive with China.
Inside the campaign, though, sharp differences emerged among staff members and foreign policy advisers as the crisis deepened and Mr. Chen left the protection of the United States Embassy in Beijing. Some advisers cautioned of the dangers of plunging too quickly into the middle of a fast-moving diplomatic crisis and wanted Mr. Romney to have a political margin of safety in case of a sudden breakthrough, according to people close to the campaign.
In the end, Mr. Romney opted for a hard line. At a campaign stop on May 3, he accused the White House of endangering Mr. Chen to avoid upsetting high-level meetings with Chinese officials, calling it ''a day of shame for the Obama administration.'' It was tougher than what a number of foreign policy advisers wanted, said one Republican close to the campaign, who cited advisers' concerns ''about getting ahead of the facts and appearing nonpresidential'' as well as having their recommendations sent ''through a political filter'' at campaign headquarters that they do not understand. 
But in a nod to advisers' fears that the campaign might not have had a full picture of what was happening in Beijing, Mr. Romney hedged, emphasizing four times in his 90-second statement that his condemnation was predicated on the assumption that reports from China were accurate. The next day, American diplomats struck a deal to allow Mr. Chen to travel to the United States, easing the crisis and undercutting Mr. Romney's criticism of the administration.
The internal debate over a rapidly evolving situation, described by a half-dozen Republicans close to the Romney organization, provides a glimpse into how Mr. Romney and his team respond to foreign crises and formulate policy in a highly charged political atmosphere.
The episode showed Mr. Romney wrestling again to find the right balance between projecting a clear set of values and principles that would guide his foreign policy if he became president, and a frequent tendency to reduce his political risks and retain maximum flexibility on policy by avoiding unambiguous national security positions.
While Mr. Romney has taken strong stands on issues like China's economic policies, he has avoided them on issues as basic as when to withdraw troops from Afghanistan, seeking to keep his options open and retain his campaign's focus on jobs and the economy.
His admirers say the Chen episode highlights traits that would make Mr. Romney an effective chief executive: eagerness for vigorous debate, comfort with contradictory views among advisers, a willingness to take positions different from aides', and an embrace of nuance and detail. Some cite ''the Bain way,'' the culture of free-flowing, rigorous debate at the firm Mr. Romney once ran, or contrast his approach with that of President George W. Bush, who more favored consensus.
Some advisers, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the campaign's insistence that they not speak publicly, said the foreign policy team seemed set up to ensure a divide over an issue like Mr. Chen, one of China's most prominent dissidents.
One adviser said to favor a more calibrated approach was Evan A. Feigenbaum, a co-chairman of Mr. Romney's Asia-Pacific working group and a former State Department official. Arguing for a relatively more aggressive response was Aaron L. Friedberg, another co-chairman who was a national security aide to Vice President Dick Cheney. Mr. Friedberg is known for favoring a hard line on China, and others say it was almost certain the two men would stake out different ground.
But critics see a seat-of-the pants approach to foreign policy, focused on campaign attacks and over-reliant on neoconservatives, that reflexively condemns Mr. Obama but that on many issues fails to outline concrete, specific proposals different from current policy.
Some members of the Republican establishment have expressed concerns about Mr. Romney's positions on missiles and on trade with China and -- in the case of Colin L. Powell -- the view that Russia is the United States' most worrisome strategic foe.
Democrats are also likely to continue to criticize Mr. Romney for his embrace of John R. Bolton, the hawkish and blunt-spoken former diplomat who is now a campaign foreign policy adviser. Mr. Bolton endorsed him in January as Mr. Romney was faltering in South Carolina, providing conservative cover against Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum in the final months of the Republican primaries.
A Romney official said Mr. Bolton was ''one amongst many voices the governor listens to on foreign policy matters,'' adding that ''there is no 'chief foreign policy adviser' on the campaign.''
Mr. Romney ''has a big tent of advisers who run the gamut from old-school Scowcroft-style realists to hard-core neoconservatives,'' said Colin H. Kahl, an Obama adviser who served as a Pentagon Middle East policy expert, describing two poles of Republican foreign policy, the latter having been influential boosters of the Iraq invasion. ''But it doesn't seem like the wider group of folks has had a lot of purchase on the candidate.''
And yet others close to the campaign suggest a simpler explanation for the candidate's hawkish pronouncements, one hardly unique to his headquarters in the North End of Boston: Mr. Romney and his tightknit staff often seek the most expedient way to gain political advantage and attack rivals. That can mean staking out ground well to the right in order to sharpen contrasts with Mr. Obama.
When it came to the debate over Mr. Chen, key advisers who sought a moderate approach included Pierre Prosper, a former ambassador handling war crimes issues; Vin Weber, the former Minnesota congressman; and Mitchell B. Reiss, a former aide to Mr. Powell.
Other key foreign policy advisers include Jim Talent, the former Missouri senator; Richard S. Williamson, a former ambassador who, with Mr. Weber and Mr. Talent, is relied on for political judgments; Kerry Healey, a former Massachusetts lieutenant governor; Meghan L. O'Sullivan, a former deputy national security adviser; Eliot A. Cohen, once a leading advocate for invading Iraq who later harshly criticized management of the war; and Eric S. Edelman, a former diplomat who was also a Cheney aide and a top Pentagon policy official. Some also cite Mr. Romney's policy director, Lanhee Chen, who they say is trusted for his intellectual and political judgments and loyalty.
While many analysts say Mr. Romney has done little to foreshadow how he would actually conduct foreign policy, some discount worries his administration would be hijacked by hard-liners.
''Bolton seems to be taken more seriously as a foil by the left than as a serious candidate for the top ranks of the Romney administration,'' said James Mann, an expert at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies on how presidential candidates formulate their foreign policies. His new book, ''The Obamians,'' traces the current administration's national security roots.
Mr. Mann called Mr. Romney's pronouncements ''standard hawkish fare,'' though how much could become policy is another matter. ''A lot of it seems more like political rhetoric,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After Mitt Romney's foreign policy advisers debated what his approach should be to the diplomatic crisis over the Chinese dissident Chen Guangcheng, above, he responded on May 3 at a campaign event in Portsmouth, Va. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICH-JOSEPH FACUN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1050 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Beijing, A Boon For Africa

BYLINE: By DAMBISA MOYO. 
Dambisa Moyo, an economist, is the author of ''Winner Take All: China's Race for Resources and What It Means for the World.''

 BODY:
IN June 2011, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton gave a speech in Zambia warning of a ''new colonialism'' threatening the African continent. ''We saw that during colonial times, it is easy to come in, take out natural resources, pay off leaders and leave,'' she said, in a thinly veiled swipe at China.
In 2009, China became Africa's single largest trading partner, surpassing the United States. And China's foreign direct investment in Africa has skyrocketed from under $100 million in 2003 to more than $12 billion in 2011. 
Since China began seriously investing in Africa in 2005, it has been routinely cast as a stealthy imperialist with a voracious appetite for commodities and no qualms about exploiting Africans to get them. It is no wonder that the American government is lashing out at its new competitor -- while China has made huge investments in Africa, the United States has stood on the sidelines and watched its influence on the continent fade.
Despite all the scaremongering, China's motives for investing in Africa are actually quite pure. To satisfy China's population and prevent a crisis of legitimacy for their rule, leaders in Beijing need to keep economic growth rates high and continue to bring hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. And to do so, China needs arable land, oil and minerals. Pursuing imperial or colonial ambitions with masses of impoverished people at home would be wholly irrational and out of sync with China's current strategic thinking.
Moreover, the evidence does not support a claim that Africans themselves feel exploited. To the contrary, China's role is broadly welcomed across the continent. A 2007 Pew Research Center survey of 10 sub-Saharan African countries found that Africans overwhelmingly viewed Chinese economic growth as beneficial. In virtually all countries surveyed, China's involvement was viewed in a much more positive light than America's; in Senegal, 86 percent said China's role in their country helped make things better, compared with 56 percent who felt that way about America's role. In Kenya, 91 percent of respondents said they believed China's influence was positive, versus only 74 percent for the United States.
And the charge that Chinese companies prefer to ship Chinese employees (and even prisoners) to work in Africa rather than hire local African workers flies in the face of employment data. In countries like my own, Zambia, the ratio of African to Chinese workers has exceeded 13:1 recently, and there is no evidence of Chinese prisoners working there.
Of course, China should not have a free pass to run roughshod over workers' rights or the environment. Human rights violations, environmental abuses and corruption deserve serious and objective investigation. But to finger-point and paint China's approach in Africa as uniformly hostile to workers is largely unsubstantiated.
If anything, the bulk of responsibility for abuses lies with African leaders themselves. The 2011 Human Rights Watch Report ''You'll Be Fired If You Refuse,'' which described a series of alleged labor and human rights abuses in Chinese-owned Zambian copper mines, missed a fundamental point: the onus of policing social policy and protecting the environment is on local governments, and it is local policy makers who should ultimately be held accountable and responsible if and when egregious failures occur.
China's critics ignore the root cause of why many African leaders are corrupt and unaccountable to their populations. For decades, many African governments have abdicated their responsibilities at home in return for the vast sums of money they receive from courting international donors and catering to them. Even well-intentioned aid undermines accountability. Aid severs the link between Africans and their governments, because citizens generally have no say in how the aid dollars are spent and governments too often respond to the needs of donors, rather than those of their citizens.
In a functioning democracy, a government receives revenues (largely in the form of taxes) from its citizens, and in return promises to provide public goods and services, like education, national security and infrastructure. If the government fails to deliver on its promises, it runs the risk of being voted out.
The fact that so many African governments can stay in power by relying on foreign aid that has few strings attached, instead of revenues from their own populations, allows corrupt politicians to remain in charge. Thankfully, the decrease in the flow of Western aid since the 2008 financial crisis offers a chance to remedy this structural failure so that, like others in the world, Africans can finally hold their governments accountable.
With approximately 60 percent of Africa's population under age 24, foreign investment and job creation are the only forces that can reduce poverty and stave off the sort of political upheaval that has swept the Arab world. And China's rush for resources has spawned much-needed trade and investment and created a large market for African exports -- a huge benefit for a continent seeking rapid economic growth.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE SPIX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); POOR POPULATION (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); CORRUPTION (64%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (61%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ZAMBIA (93%); KENYA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1051 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: A Sea of Job-Seekers, But Some Companies Aren't Getting Any Bites

BYLINE: By DARREN DAHL

 BODY:
After the latest, disappointing unemployment figures, policy makers and economists continue to debate how American companies might create more jobs. But business owners and recruiters say thousands of jobs around the country are sitting vacant, particularly at small and midsize companies.
''Companies all over are having a difficult time recruiting the kind of people they're looking for,'' said Robert Funk, chairman and chief executive of Express Employment Professionals, a national staffing firm based in Oklahoma City that helped some 335,000 people land jobs last year. ''We currently have 18,000 open job orders we can't fill.''
How can so many jobs remain unfilled with unemployment so high? One explanation is that many would-be workers lack the necessary skills to fill those positions. ''There is higher demand for skilled jobs and less demand for unskilled positions than we've seen coming out of past recessions,'' Mr. Funk said. 
Case in point: Gabriel Shaoolian, chief executive of Blue Fountain Media, a Web design and marketing company with 85 employees in New York, said he had 10 openings right now because his company could not find enough highly qualified people with technical backgrounds. ''If you're a professional developer, Web designer or online marketing specialist, you can pick the company you work for,'' Mr. Shaoolian said. ''There is a shortage where demand severely outstrips supply.''
To fill those jobs, Mr. Shaoolian said his company had used online job boards like Monster.com and Craigslist over the last two years, but found the experience frustrating because most of the applicants were unqualified. ''It was catastrophically bad,'' Mr. Shaoolian said. He said the social networking site LinkedIn had brought better results, in part because candidates could be vetted more effectively based on their connections and past experience.
Unable to find qualified candidates quickly enough domestically, Mr. Shaoolian has turned to hiring freelance contractors -- many based outside the United States. ''Greece may be struggling with their economy, but their developers are phenomenal and they are in high demand,'' he said.
But it's not just software and information technology skills that seem to be in short supply. A recent ManpowerGroup survey ranked I.T. positions third, behind skilled trades and engineers, among the toughest positions to fill. Others in the top 10 included sales representatives, accounting and finance staff, drivers, mechanics, nurses, machine operators and teachers.
Many of these jobs require skills an individual can acquire without investing in a four-year college degree. For example, Jeff Silver, chief executive of Coyote Logistics, a fast-growing provider of third-party logistics services -- he calls it a trucking company without trucks -- said that there were an estimated 300,000 open trucker jobs right now in the United States.
''Driving a truck is not something anyone can do because you do need a license and to be able to pass a drug test,'' said Mr. Silver, whose company is based in Chicago. He estimated that a typical trucker could earn $35,000 to $70,000 a year. ''But it's not a glamorous job.''
The shortage of truckers is likely to get worse before it gets better, said Charles Hoag, a district manager for Copeland Trucking, which is based outside Minneapolis. That's because there are not enough young people getting the driving experience they would need to replace aging drivers.
''Finding and keeping good drivers is a constant struggle,'' Mr. Hoag said, ''I think it boils down to high expectations. Trucking is the classic blue-collar job that nobody wants anymore.''
That challenge is magnified because insurance companies typically require drivers to have up to two years of experience driving a truck before they will cover them, Mr. Hoag said. While larger companies can afford to train drivers, Mr. Hoag said he relied on Craigslist and a Minneapolis recruiter to find them -- but the recruiter, he said, ''is struggling to find people, too.''
Because he is almost always short one or two drivers, two of his 13 trucks almost always sit idle -- and since the trucks are leased, they still cost $2,000 a month each. ''The lack of qualified drivers is directly costing my business,'' Mr. Hoag said.
Drew Greenblatt is another owner who worries that the lack of skilled job candidates is damaging his business. ''Over the past couple of years, we invested in robots to help us win back jobs from China,'' Mr. Greenblatt said. His company, Marlin Steel Wire Products, is based in Baltimore, where it manufactures high-quality sheet metal products for customers like Pfizer, Caterpillar and Toyota. ''But our big problem is that we don't have enough talent to run those machines at off hours, which means they sit dormant 70 hours a week when they could be working.''
Mr. Greenblatt currently has five openings for machine operators, positions that don't require college degrees but pay, on average, about $60,000. What candidates do need are skills like the ability to operate a computer, read a blueprint and use a caliper.
''I mean these are the kind of good middle-class jobs this nation needs,'' said Mr. Greenblatt, who has hired a temporary agency to try to help him find qualified workers. ''But we're hamstrung because we can't get the people we need to come work for us. We're in the middle of a recession and we have to hire someone to help us find talent. It's so upside down.''
While there has been an emphasis on the shortage of graduates with so-called STEM skills -- science, technology, engineering and math -- employers like Mr. Greenblatt also bemoan the lack of basic social skills among many job applicants.
''My operators are in constant contact with our customers, so they need to be able to articulate through e-mail,'' Mr. Greenblatt said. ''But you'd be surprised at how many people can't do that. I can't have them e-mailing Boeing or Pfizer if their grammar is terrible.''
Facing a lack of experienced candidates, some companies are willing to train employees to fill particular positions. But given the high cost of bringing on and training a new employee -- and the risk of seeing that well-trained employee leave for another company -- many businesses are putting candidates through longer and more thorough rounds of personality screening tests and interviews to try to ensure the candidate will fit into a company's culture. And that means it can take longer to fill jobs than it did in the past.
''I think there is more of an emphasis on recruiting for soft skills like social and relationship skills than ever,'' said Jack Stack, chief executive of SRC Holdings in Springfield, Mo., whose company added some 600 hourly and salaried jobs in 2011 and expects to hire 400 more employees in 2012. ''We can train someone for a particular technical skill but if you have an attitude problem, you can destroy a village.''
Given SRC's rapid hiring, Mr. Stack has asked Keith Boatright, SRC's director of human resources, to introduce personality and character assessments into the hiring process while also expanding the company's recruiting efforts beyond the Springfield area, especially for highly skilled positions like logistics experts or engineers familiar with natural gas power systems.
''SRC has been kind of spoiled for a while because we never had to bang rocks together to get recruits,'' said Mr. Boatright, who joined SRC two years ago. ''Now for the first time we have had to challenge our H.R. team to have a sales mentality and to develop pipelines to get the right people, since it might take us interviewing 30 people before we find the one we want. The lack of qualified workers has become a definite threat to our growth strategy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Drew Greenblatt, president of Marlin Steel in Baltimore, with a metal fabrication machine he's having trouble finding employees to operate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARREN HIGGINS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (87%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (87%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TRUCK DRIVERS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); SALES FORCE (72%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); TRUCKING (60%); ACCOUNTING (50%)

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (90%); MANPOWERGROUP (83%); CRAIGSLIST INC (54%)

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (90%); MAN (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (90%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1052 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: At Outset of Brussels Summit Meeting, the One Thing Missing Is Confidence

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH; Melissa Eddy contributed reporting from Berlin, Rachel Donadio from Rome, and Stephen Castle from London.

 BODY:
BERLIN -- With its democratically elected president and powerful finance minister, the European Union of the future will be more adept not only at fighting crises but at preventing them in the first place. Its bicameral legislature, with an empowered Parliament and an upper house like the United States Senate, will ensure greater legitimacy among the Continent's polyglot people.
That, at any rate, is how Germany's powerful finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, has laid out his vision for the future of Europe -- or at least for the countries that use the euro -- on the eve of a critical European Union summit meeting in Brussels.
In a crisis battled primarily through incremental steps, vision has been sorely lacking on the Continent. But here in Germany, scholars, politicians and journalists have intensely debated what form a future Europe would take. Chancellor Angela Merkel is fond of calling for ''more Europe,'' but few can say what that means, and pessimism about leaders finding a way is growing stronger, as pundits race to declare the euro a failed endeavor. 
Heading into Thursday's meeting, there was little confidence that a significant breakthrough would be reached. The meeting will be the first full-scale meeting for the leaders of the 27 European Union countries since Francois Hollande became the president of France on a pro-growth platform that seems to have shifted the political momentum in Europe from the austerity championed by Berlin.
At a moment when the world is waiting for agreement on a path forward in Europe's debt crisis, Ms. Merkel told German legislators on Wednesday that she was under ''no illusions'' and expected a ''controversial discussion'' with other leaders at the conference. Just hours before flying on Wednesday evening to Paris to meet with Mr. Hollande, she predicted confrontation rather than harmony.
In recent days it has felt as though the more that leaders pressured Ms. Merkel to agree to stronger measures, whether in Los Cabos, Mexico, at the Group of 20 meeting or at a summit conference last week in Rome, the more she dug in against them. She has expressed particular antipathy for any proposals that would lead to greater sharing of the region's debt burdens.
''I am afraid that at the summit, far too much time will be spent talking about all kinds of ideas for a common sharing of debt, and far too little about improved controls and structures,'' she said, adding that ''euro bonds, euro bills, debt redemption funds and much more are not only unconstitutional in Germany; they are also economically wrong and counterproductive.''
Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy, who has proposed using the euro zone bailout funds and the European Central Bank to help bring down borrowing costs in troubled countries, told Italian lawmakers on Tuesday that he would not ''rubber-stamp'' general, pre-issued declarations at the summit meeting but would instead press for concrete measures. It is a critical juncture for Mr. Monti. If he returns from the meeting empty-handed, particularly after pushing through unpopular changes to labor laws on Wednesday, his government could be mortally weakened.
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain told his Parliament on Wednesday that the meeting needed to urgently address Spain's soaring borrowing costs, a sign of market nervousness about the state of the country's finances. ''We cannot finance at current prices for too long,'' Mr. Rajoy said.
Political analysts say that Ms. Merkel has been forced to play hardball and hold out for the best possible deal because once she signs off on jointly issued debt, she cannot take it back. Yet utterances like ''I don't see total debt liability as long as I live,'' which she said Tuesday at a closed-door meeting of lawmakers, do not appear to leave her much room to maneuver.
''Politicians have to lead,'' Eckart D. Stratenschulte, the director of European Academy Berlin, said at a recent forum on the future of Europe. ''You have to identify the aim, you have to explain it, and you have to choose the way, and then you have to go there.''
Ms. Merkel prefers to work behind the scenes. A parade of European leaders has circled through Berlin in recent months, sometimes for one-on-one chats in the chancellery's private dining room overlooking the Tiergarten. Crucially, Ms. Merkel has courted the support of smaller countries, like the Baltics or Slovenia, as well as her main partners in Rome, Paris and London.
Earlier in the year she hosted small rounds of national leaders at her retreat an hour's drive north of the city, the Baroque 18th-century Schloss Meseberg, where they could speak in greater depth about the needs and wants of their individual countries than in the large groups of 27 that gather in Brussels. At the same time, Ms. Merkel has been hosting a ''dialogue for the future,'' through a series of town-hall-style meetings around Germany.
Ms. Merkel has been criticized time and again for her deliberative approach, for the cost of waiting and allowing market instability to chip away at economic activity. Her emphasis on austerity has contributed to political instability in Greece, and her reluctance to take more immediate measures to shore up the euro has helped bring down governments in Ireland, Portugal, Spain, Italy and Greece, and may yet bring down more. With populist parties on the rise, future conversations about ''more Europe'' may be held with very different interlocutors.
But analysts have long cautioned that it is a mistake to underestimate Ms. Merkel's political instincts or her ability to use even negative momentum to execute a judo flip.
As Ms. Merkel has played the stern taskmaster, Mr. Schauble has had the chance to portray the farsighted thinker. ''So far, member states have almost always had the final say in Europe. This cannot continue,'' Mr. Schauble said in an interview with the newsmagazine Der Spiegel.
It is a common criticism that voters are more excited about the annual Eurovision song contest or the European soccer championship than voting for the European Parliament. A presidential election, Mr. Schauble predicted, would change all that. ''It would electrify citizens from Portugal to Finland,'' he told Der Spiegel.
Germany, in part because of its cold war history, is typically seen as more prepared to give up sovereignty. But even here, there is opposition toward sending more power to Brussels.
''Political union is code for a state,'' said Peter Gauweiler, a member of Parliament from the Christian Social Union. ''We can't allow the central committee to migrate from Moscow to Brussels.'' Werner Weidenfeld, director of the Center for Applied Policy Research at the University of Munich, said change ''only happens under pressure, never in fair weather.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany talked with colleagues at the Bundestag on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEAN GALLUP/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); EURO (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); EUROBONDS (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (89%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); ITALY (92%); BELGIUM (91%); FRANCE (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1053 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan Trade Loss May Reach $9 Billion

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and SUSANNE CRAIG; Ben Protess contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Losses on JPMorgan Chase's bungled trade could total as much as $9 billion, far exceeding earlier public estimates, according to people who have been briefed on the situation.
When Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive, announced in May that the bank had lost $2 billion in a bet on credit derivatives, he estimated that losses could double within the next few quarters. But the red ink has been mounting in recent weeks, as the bank has been unwinding its positions, according to interviews with current and former traders and executives at the bank who asked not to be named because of investigations into the bank.
The bank's exit from its money-losing trade is happening faster than many expected. JPMorgan previously said it hoped to clear its position by early next year; now it is already out of more than half of the trade and may be completely free this year. 
As JPMorgan has moved rapidly to unwind the position -- its most volatile assets in particular -- internal models at the bank have recently projected losses of as much as $9 billion. In April, the bank generated an internal report that showed that the losses, assuming worst-case conditions, could reach $8 billion to $9 billion, according to a person who reviewed the report.
With much of the most volatile slice of the position sold, however, regulators are unsure how deep the reported losses will eventually be. Some expect that the red ink will not exceed $6 billion to $7 billion.
Nonetheless, the sharply higher loss totals will feed a debate over how strictly large financial institutions should be regulated and whether some of the behemoth banks are capitalizing on their status as too big to fail to make risky trades.
JPMorgan plans to disclose part of the total losses on the soured bet on July 13, when it reports second-quarter earnings. Despite the loss, the bank has said it will be solidly profitable for the quarter -- no small achievement given that nervous markets and weak economies have sapped Wall Street's main businesses. To put the size of the loss in perspective, JPMorgan logged a first-quarter profit of $5.4 billion.
More than profits are at stake. The growing fallout from the bank's bad bet threatens to undercut the credibility of Mr. Dimon, who has been fighting major regulatory changes that could curtail the kind of risk-taking that led to the trading losses. The bank chief was considered a deft manager of risk after steering JPMorgan through the financial crisis in far better shape than its rivals.
''Essentially, JPMorgan has been operating a hedge fund with federal insured deposits within a bank,'' said Mark Williams, a professor of finance at Boston University, who also served as a Federal Reserve bank examiner.
A spokesman for the bank declined to comment.
In its most basic form, the losing trade, made by the bank's chief investment office in London, was an intricate position that included a bullish bet on an index of investment-grade corporate debt. That was later combined with a bearish wager on high-yield securities.
The chief investment office -- which invests excess deposits for the bank and was created to hedge interest rate risk -- brought in more than $4 billion in profits in the last three years, accounting for roughly 10 percent of the bank's profit during that period.
In testimony before the House Financial Services Committee last week, Mr. Dimon said that the London unit had ''embarked on a complex strategy'' that exposed the bank to greater risks even though it had been intended to minimize them.
JPMorgan executives are briefed each morning on the size of the trading loss. The tally could shrink if the market moves in JPMorgan's favor, the people briefed on the situation cautioned.
But hedge funds and other investors have seized on the bank's distress, creating a rapid deterioration in the underlying positions held by the bank. Although Mr. Dimon has tried to conceal the intricacies of the bank's soured bet, credit traders say the losses have still mounted.
While some hedge funds have compounded the bank's woes, others have been finding it profitable to help JPMorgan get clear of the losing credit positions.
One such fund, Blue Mountain Capital Management, has been accumulating trades over the last couple of weeks that might help reduce the risk of the bets made by JPMorgan in a credit index, according to interviews with more than a dozen credit traders. The hedge fund is then selling those positions back to the bank. A Blue Mountain spokesman declined to comment.
As traders in JPMorgan's London desk work to get out of the huge bet, which started generating erratic losses in late March, the traders based in New York are largely sitting idle, according to current traders in the unit.
''We are in a holding pattern,'' said one current New York trader who asked not to be named.
Long before the losses started mounting, senior executives at the chief investment office in New York worried about the trades of Bruno Iksil, according to the current traders.
Now known as the London Whale for his outsize wagers in the credit markets, Mr. Iksil accumulated a number of trades in 2010 that were illiquid, which means it would take the bank more time to get out of them.
In 2010, a senior executive at the chief investment office compiled a detailed report that estimated how much money the bank stood to lose if it had to get out of all Mr. Iksil's trades within 30 days. The senior executive recommended that JPMorgan consider putting aside reserves to deal with any losses that might stem from Mr. Iksil's trades. It is not known how much was recommended as a reserve or whether Mr. Dimon saw the report, but the warning went unheeded.
The losses are the most embarrassing fumble for Mr. Dimon since he became chief executive in 2005.
In appearances before Congress, Mr. Dimon has taken pains to assure investors and lawmakers that the overall health of JPMorgan remained strong and that it had more than sufficient amounts of capital to weather any economic dislocation.
Even as he apologized for the trade, calling it ''stupid,'' Mr. Dimon emphasized to lawmakers that the loss was an ''isolated incident.''
The Federal Reserve is currently poring over the bank's trades to examine the scope of the growing losses and the original bet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, discussed the deal last week before the House Financial Services Committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); COMPANY LOSSES (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (67%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1054 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Health Care Costs More Than 'Socialized' European Medicine

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: As the U.S. Supreme Court prepared to hand down its judgment on President Obama's health care reforms, new figures show the U.S. spends far more on publicly funded health care than almost every other country in the developed world. 

 BODY:
LONDON - A sobering statistic emerged on Thursday as the United States Supreme Court prepared to deliver its judgment on Obamacare.
It confirmed that the U.S. spends more per capita on publicly funded health care than almost every other country in the developed world. And that includes countries that provide free health care to all their citizens.
Figures published on Thursday by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, a 34-nation grouping of advanced economies, showed that less than half of health spending in the U.S. was publicly financed compared with an O.E.C.D. average of 72.2 percent.
"However, the overall level of health spending in the United States is so high that public (i.e. government) spending on health per capita is still greater than in all other OECD countries, except Norway and the Netherlands," according to the Paris-based organization's Health Data 2012 report.
Combined public and private spending on health care in the U.S. came to $8,233 per person in 2010, more than twice as much as relatively rich European countries such as France, Sweden and Britain that provide universal health care.
Are Americans healthier as a result? The U.S. has fewer doctors per capita than comparable countries, and fewer hospital beds. But more is spent on advanced diagnostic equipment and health tests.
Life expectancy has risen in line with that in other developed countries, but the average American life span of 78.7 years in 2010 was below the O.E.C.D. average. Obesity in the U.S. was the highest in the 34-nation survey.
"Obesity's growing prevalence foreshadows increases in the occurrence of health problems (such as diabetes and cardiovascular diseases), and higher health care costs in the future," the O.E.C.D. said.
An earlier survey found that U.S. health care was overpriced and not always better than in comparable countries. "Sometimes treatments are provided which are unnecessary, or even undesirable," the organization said in a 2011 report on comparative health indicators.
"It does a lot of elective surgery," the survey said of the U.S. health care system, "the sort of activities where it is not always clear-cut about whether a particular intervention is necessary or not."
Advocates of state-funded universal health care might use such statistics to show free health care for all is not only fairer but also cheaper.
In defense of a Canadian health care system maligned during the Obamacare debate as "an inefficient socialistic enterprise," Tim Shufelt of Canada's Financial Post wrote: "Canadians pay much less per capita on health care than do Americans, while ranking higher among the most common measures of human health."
Canada's embrace of universal health care reflects sentiment in most countries where free treatment is regarded as a right. 
"In Europe the right of access to health care for all is considered normal," Pierre-Yves Dugua wrote in a Figaro blog, "as is a financing system based on compulsory contributions."
The economic arguments in favor of European-style systems have been evident in the domestic U.S. debate on Obamacare.
Commenting on the latest O.E.C.D. figures, an editorial in Gannett's The Advertiser noted: "America pays big-time money for health care and gets Third World results."
"The greatest public good comes from universal access to care that emphasizes prevention and health education," according to article. "The European systems, often socialized or with health insurers forced to offer basic plans to everyone, can do that. Ours doesn't."

        
Pain Persists Among Europe's Ailing Economies

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); SUPREME COURTS (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); OBESITY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (76%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (63%); DIABETES (63%) health care; obamacare; oecd; supreme court; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Supreme Court; United States; Featured; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (94%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (94%) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Supreme Court

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); EUROPE (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); FRANCE (79%); NORWAY (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1055 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Opinion Report: Greenhouse Gases

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page. 

 BODY:
At the last minute, like everything else in Congress, a bipartisan Senate deal fell into place on Tuesday to prevent interest rates on student loans from doubling.
If you donate enough money to a presidential campaign, you'll be guaranteed a seat at a table with people who will affect your industry or will shape the tax code or trade policy or banking regulation.
A federal court on Tuesday upheld the Environmental Protection Agency's landmark rulings to control greenhouse gases.
The New York City budget may soon need to be revised because of overly optimistic revenue projections.

        
Opinion Report: Soot Standards
        
Opinion Report: Mosquitoes
        
Opinion Report: The National Mammal
        
Opinion Report: Dharun Ravi's Sentence
        
Opinion Report: Corruption at Wal-Mart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); STUDENT LOANS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (86%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (84%); TAX LAW (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); BANKING LAW (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); MAMMALS (68%) Environmental Regulations; Student Loans

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1056 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: Most Borrowers Still Wary of Reverse Mortgages

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Most borrowers remain wary of reverse mortgages, a new report by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau finds. 

 BODY:
As my colleague Edward Wyatt wrote Thursday, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is looking into whether more regulation is needed of reverse mortgages - special loans that allow homeowners 62 or older to borrow against the equity in their houses, without making monthly payments.
The bureau, in a report released Thursday, said that the number of reverse mortgages had fallen since a peak before the financial crisis, but that the agency was seeing renewed interest. The number of consumers taking out a reverse mortgage as soon as they are able - age 62, under federal law -- has jumped. In 2011, 9 percent of reverse mortgage borrowers were age 62, up from 2 percent during the 1990s. Nearly half of recent borrowers are under 70.
Yet, many consumers remain wary of the loans, according to the report. Although the potential pool of borrowers for reverse mortgages is large - and older Americans with substantial home equity may benefitfrom them - only about 2 to 3 percent of eligible households actually have a reverse mortgage.
Why the general lack of enthusiasm? The reasons, the report said, could include a belief that reverse mortgages should be used only as a last resort, a desire to own their homes free and clear after many years of making mortgage payments and a desire to leave the home to children or heirs.
Would you consider a reverse mortgage? Why or why not?

        
Report Your Reverse Mortgage Experience
        
Many Borrowers Fall Behind Again After Mortgage Modifications
        
Refinancing Your F.H.A. Mortgage at Lower Cost
        
Ask Questions of a Financial Planner, at No Charge
        
Daughters of Boomers Giving More Financial Help to Parents, Study Finds

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REVERSE MORTGAGES (96%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); CHILDREN (78%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (70%) Mortgages; Retirement; Consumer Protection; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (94%) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1057 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: The Future, in a Past Life

BYLINE: CAROLE DESANTI


HIGHLIGHT: A clairvoyant medium addressed the editorial staff, and the upheaval of the publishing industry was only one of his predictions. 

 BODY:
Back in 1989, the publishing company then known as E.P. Dutton was an old-fashioned kind of place. Wide-sashed windows opened to the weather; an orange carpet was duct-taped together where it had frayed; the telex machine buzzed and spit out missives from abroad. I was a young editor, newly enough promoted to still be dazzled by lunches with agents who drank me under the table and left me with the check. 
And, it was the era of the slush pile - a mountain of hard-copy manuscripts sent in over the transom, with postage stamps enclosed for the return journey. Once someone (not me, unfortunately, as I was surviving on lentils and credit cards and could have used it) ripped open an envelope to discover a $20 bill instead of return postage. Magic like that happened, sometimes. So did other kinds of magic - my first fiction acquisition came from that pile. 
One day, a more senior member of the editorial department corralled us all into a conference room. She wanted us to meet a prospective author who was a clairvoyant medium. We were instructed to bring a small belonging worn on our person, like a piece of jewelry, for a psychic reading after the pitch. This was a welcome diversion from our usual frantic deadlines, and we assembled, fairground-style, for his presentation about reincarnation and spirit guides. 
I considered myself impervious to this kind of charlatanry, so I was not surprised that when my turn came, otherworldly signals failed to arise from my little gold ring. Impatiently, the medium seized my hand and went silent. 
"Your spirit guides are here," he said, at last. (The room perked up: thus far, we had not entertained any spirits, only general information about past events and a few predictions.) "One of them is your mother's sister." 
"My mother didn't have a sister." 
"Yes, she did." 
I felt vaguely affronted. "Three brothers. No sister." 
"She had a sister - she died before your mother was born. Her name began with the letter V." 
Oh. A "ping" of forgotten information bounced like a pebble against my wall of certainty; suddenly I felt a little shaky. There had been such a child, a daughter who had died of diphtheria in the 1920s. All I knew about it was that my grandmother had been devastated by the loss, and that Viola's ashes were kept on a high shelf in her closet. 
"There's someone else, also on your mother's side. She's not speaking English." 
"No, my mother's family all spoke English." Here I was back on firm ground. 
"Her name begins with an E or an F. And her husband died of a wound to the head he's speaking now, I can understand him. His name begins with A she's very insistent! An E or an F, you don't remember?" He glared as though I should be contributing more to this odd exchange, and began listing possible names. Then it floated back to me, the name of my mother's only French-speaking relation in an iron-spined family of English Canadians. 
"Florange," I said. "Aunt Florange." I'd met her only once, on a family trip. 
"Yes, that's it!" He dropped my hand. My colleagues rustled and murmured. 
"They have a message for you." 
"What?" I said, feeling I was being made ridiculous.
"They want you to write." 
"Write? What? Flap copy?" I waved the typed pages I'd ferried to the meeting.
"No. Write." 
My heart sank. (And, strangely, lightened.) "What I really want to know," I said, deflecting the subject, "Is am I going to die in a plane crash?" 
 "No," he said. "But change your diet."
Later, I called my mother. "Mom, who was Aunt Florange married to?"
"Uncle Alan."
"Um, how did Uncle Alan die?" 
"He fell off the roof and hit his head. He already had shrapnel, though." 
"Oh. Well, you'll never believe this, but a psychic was in our office today and he told me that Uncle Alan died of a head wound and that Aunt Florange is my spirit guide." (I didn't mention Viola.)
"Well, you could have picked someone better! She and I never got along." 
"I didn't pick - do you believe in this stuff?" It was hard to imagine that my mother would entertain the idea of life after death, not to mention spirit guides. 
"She always worried that you wouldn't remember her." 
"She did?" 
"Goodness knows why. She was an old lady. You were a little girl." 
And then I remembered: we had written each other letters. 
A month or so later, the psychic came back in for a second meeting. This time, he said that he saw me on a street corner in Paris, sometime in the last century, in a long skirt, holding an umbrella. In a past life, I was something like a streetwalker, but not exactly. "And you," he pointed to one of my co-workers, a woman, "Were one of her clients! As a man," he added. "I can see you with your cape and cane." Then he stood up and said, "I don't know why I'm here. This company is going to close. I can see boxes lined up all down this hallway and you're packing up to leave. So, you're clearly not the publisher I am looking for." 
We all looked at each other, perplexed. Then got back to work. 
The E.P. Dutton we knew, along with its editorial staff was, in fact, dissolved shortly after that - perhaps a month or two later. The company was absorbed into its corporate parent, part of an industrywide wave of reorganizations that perhaps wasn't so hard to see coming, although it was certainly a surprise to us. The day we were told happened to be Halloween, and we repaired to the restaurant across the street, where the entire wait staff was in costume. Ghouls and ghosts served us our lunch, a long and boozy one. Then, back at the office, boxes were packed and stacked in the hall. 
The hidden gift of unemployment was that I was able to spend more time at home with my mother, who was ill, and who died the following year. 
As for writing, that went slowly. My pragmatic side, as well as all of the parental voices and silences of my upbringing, restrained me. Professionally, I heeded the publishing industry's taboo against editors writing, even when my heart pulled me in that direction. But, in the margins of regular life, to the side of all the clamor, I did begin to listen more deeply. To find the voices of the past, those women on street corners, blinking in the sudden light. 
Florange and the others didn't seem to mind waiting. Compared to bosses, editors and authors, they were quite patient. In fact, they gave me a whole new view of the word "deadline." They seemed to be saying that I had all the time in the world. 

        
Things I Saw - No. 17
        
In Need, in New York
        
Things I Saw - No. 16
        
The Russian Heart
        
Things I Saw - No. 15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (92%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); HEAD INJURIES (60%) book publishing; clairvoyant mediums; New York City; Book Trade and Publishing; Psychics and Psychic Phenomena; Townies

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1058 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's Start-Up Baby Boom

BYLINE: VINOD SREEHARSHA


HIGHLIGHT: Two Brazilian baby-product e-commerce competitors -- Baby and Bebestore -- have closed on new financing rounds. 

 BODY:
SAO PAULO -- There is something of a baby boom going on in Brazil's burgeoning e-commerce sector. 
Baby, which is based here, has secured $16.7 million in additional financing to increase its online baby and maternal product business. 
Accel Partners led the round, which was stretched out over several months. Tiger Global also participated in the round, which was a follow-on investment for the firm. 
While these two firms closed a previous round in February, additional investors -- the Valor Capital Group, Menlo Ventures, Greenoaks Capital Management and Chamath Palihapitiya -- joined the round's final phase, which closed last week. Mr. Palihapitiya also invested in the company's initial round. 
The new investment comes on the heels of Baby's main competitor Bebestore, also based here, recently closing additional financing from Atomico, the London-based venture capital firm started by a Skype co-founder, Niklas Zennstrom. 
Bebestore co-founder Leonardo Simo would not disclose the size except to say it exceeded $10 million. It was a follow-on investment to the $3 million Atomico made in the company last December. 
Even with Brazil's overall economy slowing -- growth forecasts continue to drop -- e-commerce still lures investors, encouraging the country's start-ups press on. 
According to e-bit, a Brazilian consulting firm, Brazilians spent $10.1 billion last year online, a 26 percent nominal increase from the year before, and are expected to spend $12.6 billion in 2012. 
The data also shows the impact of growing competition. In the last three months of 2011, Brazil's top 50 online stores lost market share compared with the same period in 2010. 
Baby, begun last year by two Americans, Davis Smith and Kimball Thomas, who moved to Brazil with their wives and children upon finishing their M.B.A. degrees, employs 108 workers, including 104 Brazilians. 
Baby, which is about to complete its first year, declined to disclose its revenue. It does acknowledge that it has faced challenges -- bureaucracy, for example. Because it has not yet obtained a particular license for some products, it still has one 50,000-square-foot warehouse empty. 
"Being an entrepreneur in Brazil is not for the faint of heart," Mr. Smith said. 
In addition to bringing new capital, Accel brought Kevin Efrusy, who has become influential to Baby. Mr. Davis and Mr.Thomas say that he has been important to showing them how founders must set a distinct company culture early on. 
"You cannot be just another e-commerce company in Brazil" to succeed, said Mr. Efrusy, who has made Brazil a focus over the last two years. 
Accel has also been helpful in another challenge, confronting a shipping infrastructure that the owners are unaccustomed to. Air freight here can be prohibitively expensive. And the cost of ground transportation can vary greatly from state to state. 
Mr. Efrusy says that his experience investing in Flipkart, what some have called the Amazon of India, is useful. That company, he said, 'had to build all its shipping infrastructure" and it was "very hard to wire together." 
He says that Brazil's infrastructure and logistics are much better than India's are, but he still sees some parallels. 
The newer investors in Baby, Valor and Menlo, are just entering the Brazilian Internet sector. They did not provide much capital -- just $3.5 million of the $16.7 million closed last week. Yet Mr. Thomas contends that it was important to bring them on for their connections. Baby is "a capital intensive business," he said, but " we also draw on the networks of our investors." In that respect, they sought to "cast a wide net."
Tiger Global suggested bringing on Valor, a New York-based firm co-founded by Clifford M. Sobel, a former United States ambassador to Brazil. Other partners are his son Scott Sobel, a former NCR Corporation executive; Raymond Chambers, former chairman of Wesray Capital; Gabriel Jaramillo, former president of Banco Santander - Brazil; and William Kooyker of Blenham Capital. 
The venture capital firm that led Baby's first round last year, Monashees Capital, did not participate in the new round, but its early support was the main reason that Tiger Global invested in the company

        
Sequoia Capital Said to Be Expanding to Brazil
        
As Facebook's Stock Struggles, Fingers Start Pointing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BABY PRODUCTS (90%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (90%); FINANCING ROUNDS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); INFANTS MARKET (89%); MARKET SHARE (77%); CORPORATE CULTURE (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); STATISTICS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (66%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) Accel Partners; Baby; Bebestore; Greenoaks Capital; Menlo Ventures; Team Valor International; Tiger Capital; E-Commerce; Start-ups; Venture Capital; Brazil

COMPANY: MENLO VENTURES (58%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Accel Partners

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (89%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1059 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: London Theater Journal: Meeting the Faces in the Crowd

BYLINE: BEN BRANTLEY


HIGHLIGHT: In "You Once Said Yes,'' a neighborhood in Camden is turned into a stage for surprising interactions. 

 BODY:
Be careful of what you say to strangers on the streets. Your words may well come back to haunt you some day. Or, really, any minute now.
That was one of the lessons I derived from "You Once Said Yes," the most personally instructive piece of theater I've seen on this trip to London. "Seen" probably isn't the right word, since that suggests the usual passivity of the theatergoer. You don't just see in "You Once Said Yes." You say. A lot. And you walk. A lot. And, heaven help you, you probe and test your own moral worth.
If I'm evoking Judgment Day visions here, I don't mean to. This production from the Look Left Look Right company, set over a sprawl of blocks in the borough of Camden, makes it easy to do the right thing. And though it touches on unhappy societal problems - homelessness, war, unemployment, inadequate public schools, cold-hearted gentrification - it is probably the most honestly upbeat show in town. And it's all because of you, or so you are caused to think.
"You Once Said Yes," which picked up a clutch of awards at the Edinburgh Fringe festival last year, is the latest in a growing and increasingly popular breed of productions that put the individual audience member center-stage, while insisting that the stage is - you got it - all the world. These have included works mystical ("The Angel Project," the director Deborah Warner's "Paradise Lost"-guided 2003 walking tour of New York) and madcap (the interactive funhouse "You Me Bum Bum Train," which returns to London this summer).
Written (after a fashion) by Morgan Lloyd Malcolm and Katie Lyons, under the artistic directorship of Mimi Poskitt, "You Once Said Yes" has a stronger implicit social conscience than most. And unlike many of its artistic siblings (including "Bum Bum Train") it asks you to play no role other than yourself, though I suppose you could choose to do otherwise. I did tell one whopper of a lie before my time in Camden was over.
Here's the set-up: You arrive at the Roundhouse arts center in Camden, a vestigially funky, increasingly expensive neighborhood for clubgoers and musicians. (It's where Amy Winehouse lived and died.) You are ushered into a storage capsule where you are given a backpack filled with items that will later prove useful, including a cell phone and a rose. A pretty, cyborg-like, uniformed woman then sends you out into the streets, with no further directions than, "Turn right."
I can't say what happens after that. Not because it's all a blur, but because I've been asked not to. I will tell you that a lot of different people get up in your face - I mean almost within French-kissing distance. And that you will be asked to assist some dodgy types that you would normally walk right by, quickly and with your eyes fixed ahead of you.
And that's part of the point of "You Once Said Yes." It demands that you stop, look, listen and absorb. The people you encounter are embodied by (very skillful) professional actors, who usually have better skin, better breath and better balance than the wandering souls they portray. But seen from a distance - which is how you first meet most of them - they're part of the amorphous crowd.
So you start examining the streetscape with newly sharpened eyes, and thinking, "O.K., are you part of this? Are you?" There's a small element of danger, I suppose, when you start making eye contact with everybody. But "You Once Said Yes" is a very careful operation. Its spies are everywhere, as you discover at the end of the journey.
Should you choose to participate, you will probably be asked to sing, dance, flirt, sign a contract you shouldn't sign, carry parcels, play a musical instrument and participate in a crime. You will also be judged on your behavior, and on the ways you deal with people, if only by yourself.
The whopper I mentioned earlier? Oh, I was asked what I planned to do with my share of some loot I might be coming into. And since that sounded like a standard-issue game-show question I said I hoped to send my 102-year-old great-grandmother to university.
Another question I answered, honestly, was the cause of some later satirical merriment, when my real-life profession was revealed. I'm choosing not to share that moment with you. On the other hand, I gather it's all on tape. Sigh. That's the world isn't it? You're asked to trust everyone, and then you can't trust anyone.
Not really. "You Once Said Yes" is designed to be a hopeful experience, which asks you to value the benefits of keeping your mind and eyes open. It's hardly typical of what I've been seeing in London, which has tended toward cynicism, in its lighter moods, and down-in-the-abyss despair. (Even a little philosophical cabaret called "Utopia," at the Soho Theater, turned out to be a bummer, in every possible way.)
The night of my afternoon in my Camden, I was back in the West End, which was its customary world-weary self. Still, a snarl can have as much entertainment value as a smile, as is demonstrated by the revival of Mike Leigh's "Abigail's Party" at the Wyndham's Theater. This tastily sour 1977 comedy (staged in New York by the New Group in 2005) shows a cozy group of five getting drunk, acting up, acting out and moving from passive aggression to aggression pure and simple.
What becomes so painfully and enjoyably clear in Lindsay Posner's production is that middle-class social largesse (especially as practiced by the suburban hosts played by Jill Halfpenny and Andy Nyman) can cover - and reveal - a multitude of hostilities.
If I emerged from "You Once Said Yes" in a newly charitable frame of mind toward my fellow humans, "Abigail's Party" left me feeling quite the opposite. Riding the subway home, I made a point of meeting no one's eyes. And who says theater has no impact?

        
London Theater Journal: Going in Circles
        
London Theater Journal: 'Sunshine' in Different Sizes
        
London Theater Journal: Body Counts
        
London Theater Journal: Seeing Patterns in a Nuclear Cloud
        
London Theater Journal: Imagination From Despair in Edinburgh and Minsk

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); HOMELESSNESS (72%); FESTIVALS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%) london theater journal; Theater; Leigh, Mike; London (England); "Abigail's Party" (Play); "You Once Said Yes" (Play)

PERSON: Leigh, Mike

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (71%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1060 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Health Spending Stopped Growing - in Other Rich Countries

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: In 2010, health care spending stopped growing altogether across the member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development -- but not in the United States. 

 BODY:
In 2010, health care spending stopped growing altogether across the member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, according to a report released Thursday.
From 2000 to 2009, total health spending grew by an average of about 5 percent each year in these developed countries, after adjusting for inflation. But in 2010, it ground to a halt, the organization said.
The stagnation was primarily caused by declines in public health care spending in many of Europe's distressed economies. The United States did not follow suit. As you can see in the chart below, American health spending growth slowed to 2.4 percent in 2010 from an average of 4.3 percent in each of the previous 10 years, but it did not stop altogether:
This is particularly striking since the United States already spends far more on health care than its peer countries, both in terms of per-capita spending ...
... and as a share of the overall economy.
It's still unclear how Thursday's Supreme Court ruling will affect health care spending in the United States. The Congressional Budget Office has said it is working on an estimate for federal health care spending.

        
Job Losses Across the Developed World
        
U.S. Health Spending Breaks From the Pack
        
How Wider Coverage Affects Health Spending
        
Awaiting the Supreme Court's Health Care Ruling
        
Rationing Life-Years

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%) health care; international economics; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; U.S. health care costs; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (93%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1061 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Brings Relief at a Virginia Clinic

BYLINE: SABRINA TAVERNISE


HIGHLIGHT: At a clinic that treats the poor, patients welcome news of the Supreme Court ruling. 

 BODY:
LEESBURG, Va. -- There were no shouts, no whoops of joy. But the fortunes of the patients at the Loudoun Community Health Center quietly changed on Thursday morning when the Supreme Court ruled to uphold the Affordable Care Act.
The patients -- including a limousine driver, a cake decorator, an owner of a cleaning business, a crafts store worker and a home health aide -- did not know it yet, but the fact that the law survived meant that most of them would have health insurance, something that none of them can now afford.
"I am so happy, I have goose bumps," said Priscilla Jacques, a 53-year-old unemployed administrative assistant who had just emerged from a patient's room when she was told the news. "Thank God. I am so happy. This is really good for everyone. It really is."
Health centers like the one here play a major role under the health care law, and they are expected to treat many of the more than 30 million Americans who will be newly insured under the law. Loudoun Community Health Center received financing under the Affordable Care Act to expand to 18 patient rooms from 8.
Such health centers often offer the only medical care available for uninsured Americans. One-quarter of low-income uninsured Americans get their medical care at a community health center, said Amy Simmons, a spokeswoman for the National Association of Community Health Centers.
The court "made the right ruling," said Samantha Nastick, 31, whose part-time jobs at a crafts store and an assisted-living home do not offer health care benefits. Her family is grappling with serious health problems: her older sister has multiple sclerosis, and a younger sister was born with spina bifida. A new set of rules that require health coverage comes as a relief. "I'm hoping the law will make it so that we can get that stuff fixed," she said.
Once a rural farming area, Loudoun County has exploded with development over the last few decades, and it is now one of the country's wealthiest counties. But the recession dealt a painful blow to workers here, and the number of patients the health center serves has more than quadrupled since it opened in 2007.
"We laughed, and we shouted with joy and hugged each other," Angela Laws, a 58-year-old owner of a cleaning service, said in describing how she and her fianc reacted when the decision was announced. Ms. Laws lost her house and nearly lost her business during the recession, and she has not been able to afford insurance. "I'm so excited," she said.
But not everybody in the clinic's waiting room on Thursday liked the ruling.
"I can't even wrap my brain around this; it's really crazy," said Lisa Jederman, who said she burned through her savings to pay for cataract treatments after she lost her job as a construction manager during the recession. The law "takes away our freedom to choose," she said, but added that she was glad community health centers like the one in Leesburg - which treated her eyes at almost no cost - would receive more support under the law. "I wouldn't have made it without this place," she said.
Colena Hammond, 48, who works as a waitress and an event planner in Richmond, Va., and goes to the Fan Free Clinic, a health care center for low-income people there, said the law would help erase the shame of not having insurance.
"I'm not indigent - I have a house, I have a car, I eat," she said. "But because I can't afford health care I'm pushed into that category. I'm sitting there in the waiting room thinking, 'I can't believe this is what I'm reduced to.' "
Under the law, her monthly premium would be just under $100 a month, according to a subsidy calculator provided by the Kaiser Family Foundation, a sum she said shd would "gladly pay."
"It would be such a relief," she said. "Such a weight lifted off of me."
A previous version of this post incorrectly stated that one in four of the patients at community health centers are employed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (92%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); INSURANCE LAW (76%); JANITORIAL SERVICES (76%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (71%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (67%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); SPINA BIFIDA (62%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (51%) Simmons, Amy; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Recession and Depression; Spina Bifida; Kaiser Family Foundation; Supreme Court; Richmond (Va); Virginia; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS (54%) Kaiser Family Foundation; Supreme Court

PERSON: Simmons, Amy

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (74%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Richmond (Va); Virginia

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1062 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: New York Led Country in Population Growth Since 2010 Census

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS


HIGHLIGHT: New York City's population gain -- attributed to higher birthrates among immigrants, a greater influx of newcomers and the recession -- shows that it remains an attractive place to call home. 

 BODY:
New York began the second decade of the 21st century with a growth spurt, adding more people than any other city in the country in the 15 months ending July 1, 2011, and outpacing population gains in its neighboring suburbs, the Census Bureau estimated on Thursday. 
An analysis of the latest reported population changes since the April 2010 census found that New York City grew at twice as fast a rate as the rest of the metropolitan area and faster than the city's annual growth since 2000, because of higher birthrates among immigrants, a greater influx of newcomers and the recession. 
Kenneth M. Johnson, a senior demographer at the University of New Hampshire, said a number of other large cities had grown faster since 2010 than during the first decade of the century. The combination of people arriving and fewer leaving contributed to their growth. 
"Fewer people are moving out of the big urban cores because the recession has tended to freeze people in place," Professor Johnson said. 
Except for the 1990s, when immigrants poured into New York City, the suburbs have driven most of the population growth in the metropolitan area since the mid-20th century. 
"New York metro gained .6 percent, but, digging deeper, New York City's gain of 0.9 means the city is now growing faster than its surrounding region," said Andrew A. Beveridge, a sociologist at Queens College of the City University of New York who analyzed census data. 
The 15-month population increase in the city amounted to a third of the city's entire growth from 2000 to 2010, according to the census. 
"A number of studies have found that there's a stronger preference for walkable neighborhoods that are close to transit and the younger population is driving less than they used to," said Christopher Jones, vice president for research of the Regional Plan Association. "All of that favors cities, and New York City in particular has become a more desirable place to live over the past 15 years because of everything from reduction of crime to improved subway service.
"And you can't discount the difference in policies being pursued," Mr. Jones added. "There is much more receptivity to building new housing and growth in the city as opposed to a number of suburbs, which is very different from what it was in the 1950s and 1960s."
Between 1980 and 1995, New York City accounted for 17 percent of the housing permits issued in the metropolitan area. Since 1995, the city's share doubled to 34 percent. 
David L. Dixon, a Census Bureau demographer, said the re-emergence of the city as the region's growth engine would, indeed, be significant, but cautioned that one year's results are not necessarily conclusive.
 "Thanks to Mayor Bloomberg's focused efforts on improving public safety and increasing quality of life, more and more people want to live in New York City," said Joseph J. Salvo, director of the population division of the Department of City Planning. "It's clear that our population is increasing at a healthy rate, even though the 2010 census base was artificially low."

        
City's Hispanic Makeup Shifts as Dominicans Leave and Mexicans Arrive
        
Income Disparity Is Greatest in New York, Census Finds
        
Immigrants Play Key Role as City Entrepreneurs, Study Finds
        
'Worst' No Longer Describes New York Commuting Time
        
TimesCast: Slipping Into Poverty

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CENSUS (95%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); BUILDING PERMITS (60%) Census; Population; Census Bureau; New York City; Demographics

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (56%) Census Bureau

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1063 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Nicholas D. Kristof)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: HIV in the Mountain Kingdom

BYLINE: JORDAN SCHERMERHORN


HIGHLIGHT: Jordan Schermerhorn, winner of the 2012 win a trip contest, writes about HIV treatment in Lesotho, the so-called Mountain Kingdom. 

 BODY:
For my first trip outside of the United States, I felt amply prepared for new experiences traveling across southern Africa - for witnessing both the struggles of poverty and the optimism of burgeoning economic growth.
Then I saw the plane.
Suppressing nervousness, I scrambled into the tiny six-seat propeller plane that bore us on the first leg of our journey to a health clinic. It looked hardly bigger than a toy, and each of us was weighed before stepping inside so the pilot could calculate the amount of fuel necessary. The plane was to take us to the small village of Bobete, near the center of the southern African country of Lesotho. This country is aptly named the Mountain Kingdom: immense geographical barriers limit the construction of roads and airstrips used to reach patients in remote, rural villages, and our bird's eye view provided some insight into the complexity of delivering health care in Lesotho. Health centers in the distant reaches of the country are often swarmed with patients, many of whom are unable to trek to the clinics in snow storms. Such weather also poses immense difficulties for planes attempting to drop off supplies: for instance, the clinic we visited was out of injectable contraceptives.

As we made our approach, buildings trimmed in bright red - characteristic, I later learned, of all health facilities in Lesotho - stood out sharply against grain-covered slopes. I was thrilled to spot solar panels on the periphery of the clinic. Along with a backup generator, this reliable power source allows the clinic to operate independently of regular blackouts that plague similar areas, keeping X-ray and ultrasound machines running for patients in need.
The Bobete clinic, an outpost tucked away in the mountains, is run by Partners in Health, the organization founded by Dr. Paul Farmer and best known for its work in Haiti. The clinic is used primarily to treat HIV patients in a catchment area of 30,000 people. In Lesotho, 23% of the adult population is HIV positive - most of them women of childbearing age - and treatment is undergoing a transformation. With a HIV diagnosis no longer considered an immediate death sentence, the stigma surrounding the disease here is vastly reduced.
One HIV-positive woman we spoke to said she was not scared when her test results first came back: she knew what HIV was, and that it was manageable with medication. After a few weeks of antiretrovirals, she felt well enough to head to the capital city of Maseru in search of a job - only to catch tuberculosis four months later. Though she was forced to retreat to the clinic that had first saved her life, she soon expects to be back in her healthiest state. Unfortunately, this cycle of concurrent infectious and chronic disease is not uncommon: HIV patients may catch tuberculosis time and time again.
It helps immensely that antiretroviral drugs are available for free here, but the question remains as to whether or not that will be sustainable as people with HIV live longer. Prevention is becoming increasingly important, and one of the most essential paths to eradication of the epidemic is the prevention of mother-to-child transmission. Pregnant women arriving at the Bobete clinic are HIV tested as a matter of course, and those who test positive are provided with a substantial support system to ensure their children are borne free of the virus.
We met another HIV-positive woman with a toddler whose squirming could not be suppressed even when strapped tightly to her back under a blanket. She had followed careful protocol while pregnant, diligently boiling water and cleaning bottles when opting to exclusively formula-feed her son. Though her mother had eight children, she says this one is quite enough for her; though she halted her education after two years of secondary school, she dreams of sending her son to university. This is the progress Lesotho can hope for in the next generation of the fight against HIV and AIDS: with effective prevention techniques, an educated population, and an expanding health system, all toddlers should be so lucky. 
And, yes, the visit to the clinic was worth a bumpy flight in a tiny airplane. I even got to ride in the co-pilot's seat on the way back for a free flying lesson.

        
Announcing My Win-a-Trip Winner!
        
A Follow-Up on Miero
        
Help Me Choose My Win-a-Trip Winner!
        
Win-a-Trip: Mitch in Kinshasa, Congo
        
Announcing...(drumroll)...Win-a-Trip 2010!

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); ANTIVIRALS (87%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (77%); WOMEN (77%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (76%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (71%); POWER FAILURES (71%); CHRONIC DISEASES (68%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (65%); SOLAR ENERGY (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (54%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (54%) Dr. Paul Farmer; HIV; Jordan Schermerhorn; Lesotho; Partners in Health; Win a Trip; AIDS; foreign aid; health care

GEOGRAPHIC: LESOTHO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (90%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1064 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: As Regulator Scores Record Fine, Support Emerges for Bigger Budget

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: After levying a $200 million fine against Barclays, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is gaining support from lawmakers and officials for a budget increase. 

 BODY:
A tiny Wall Street regulator had a big money day.
On Wednesday, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission fined Barclays $200 million, an expensive rebuke of the bank's efforts to manipulate a key interest rate. 
Now, the agency's allies in Washington are drawing on the Barclays case to push for a budget increase. While Congressional Republicans fiercely oppose the regulator having deeper pockets, Democratic lawmakers and Obama administration officials are using the enforcement action to highlight the agency's value as a Wall Street watchdog.
"In this one move, the C.F.T.C. is recovering more money than the Republican Congress will allow it to have for a budget for an entire year," Barney Frank, the outspoken Massachusetts Democrat who has championed the agency's budget, said in a statement. 
The Barclays case, which also produced fines from the Justice Department and London regulators totaling $450 million, was one of the largest regulatory sanctions tied to the financial crisis. It is also the biggest fine in the trading commission's history.
The sum is so big that it nearly exceeds the trading commission's annual budget. After receiving $205 million from Congress this year, Republicans moved to slash the agency's budget by 14 percent, to $180 million. 
President Obama is seeking a $308 million budget for the agency. Even at that level, the agency would be Wall Street's smallest regulator.
Advocacy groups and at least one senior administration official have chimed in to support the agency in the Congressional budget battle. Citing the Barclays investigation, Neal S. Wolin, deputy secretary of the Treasury Department, pleaded the agency's case for a bigger budget. 
"It does underscore from my perspective," he said on CNBC Wednesday, "that the C.F.T.C. and the S.E.C. should be appropriately funded."
The agency, however, can't tap the Barclays fine to beef up staff, or write a flood of new rules it is planning for Wall Street. Instead, the cash goes straight to the Treasury Department.
In a 45-page complaint against Barclays, the trading commission accused the British bank of trying to manipulate certain interest rates to its advantage. Such benchmarks, including the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and the Euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, form the basis of lending rates for corporations and consumers. 
The agency has been broadly ramping up its enforcement actions, with unrelated cases against JPMorgan Chase and the Royal Bank of Canada. It brought 99 enforcement actions over the last fiscal year, 74 percent more than the prior year.
The trading commission also shuffled staff, adding a former federal prosecutor, Davis Meister, as its new enforcement director. The hires coincided with a broader overhaul that remade the agency into a thorn in the side of Wall Street. 
The agency once patrolled the futures market, a relatively sleepy nook of Wall Street. But in the aftermath of the financial crisis, it inherited new powers under the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul law, co-authored by Mr. Frank.
"The success of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, in conjunction with the Justice Department and British regulators in achieving this significant settlement, is one more strong argument against Republican efforts to deprive the C.F.T.C. of the funds it needs to be effective," Mr. Frank said.

        
Man Accused of Threatening to Kill Regulators
        
At Hearing, Regulators Discuss JPMorgan Investigation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUTURES (94%); SECURITIES TRADING (93%); BUDGETS (93%); FINES & PENALTIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EURO (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Gary Gensler; Justice Department; Securities and Exchange Commission; Frank, Barney; Wolin, Neal S; Budgets and Budgeting; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (84%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (94%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); RY (TSX) (84%); RY (SWX) (84%); RY (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (84%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%) Frank, Barney; Wolin, Neal S

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1065 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Profits Fall for First Time Since Recession

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: For years, unemployed Americans have complained that even as companies have been doing so well, workers' own fortunes have stagnated. Now corporate profits are dragging, too. 

 BODY:
 unemployed Americans have complained that even as companies have done so well, workers' own fortunes have stagnated.
Like employment, corporate profits plummeted during the financial crisis; but unlike employment, profits bounced back almost as quickly as they had fallen. Then, in subsequent quarters, profits kept climbing and climbing, reaching record highs each month. Millions of workers sat on the sidelines, watching companies sit on mountains of cash rather than hire. Employers said economic uncertainty kept them from hiring, since they were concerned that the orders would stop rolling in.
Whether attributable to prescience or self-fulfilling prophecy, business has finally stagnated.
Corporate profits declined last quarter, ticking down by $6.4 billion or 0.3 percent in seasonally adjusted annual terms. A small decline, yes, but it was also the first decline since the fourth quarter of 2008, when the great recession was still raging. 
Given the cushion of cash that companies accumulated in the last three years, last quarter's decline probably didn't break the bank for too many companies. However, it will probably make companies even more fearful about expanding.
Interestingly, profits fell entirely because of declines in foreign markets, not because of business problems at home.
Profits from domestic business rose at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $41.7 billion in the first quarter, while the rest-of-the-world component of profits decreased $48.1 billion.
It is no wonder, then, that Washington has been watching developments in Europe so warily.

        
Health Spending Stopped Growing - in Other Rich Countries
        
Putting China's Economic Power in Perspective
        
Surpassing the Great American Consumer
        
U.S. Companies, Hiring Abroad
        
The Profits of Virtue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%) corporate profits; international economics; Corporations; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1066 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan Trading Loss May Reach $9 Billion

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: As JPMorgan has moved rapidly to unwind the position in credit derivatives, internal models at the bank have recently projected losses of as much as $9 billion. 

 BODY:
Losses on JPMorgan Chase's bungled trade could total as much as $9 billion, far exceeding earlier public estimates, according to people who have been briefed on the situation.
When Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive, announced in May that the bank had lost $2 billion in a bet on credit derivatives, he estimated that losses could double within the next few quarters. But the red ink has been mounting in recent weeks, as the bank has been unwinding its positions, according to interviews with current and former traders and executives at the bank who asked not to be named because of investigations into the bank.
The bank's exit from its money-losing trade is happening faster than many expected. JPMorgan previously said it hoped to clear its position by early next year; now it is already out of more than half of the trade and may be completely free this year.
 As JPMorgan has moved rapidly to unwind the position - its most volatile assets in particular - internal models at the bank have recently projected losses of as much as $9 billion. In April, the bank generated an internal report that showed that the losses, assuming worst-case conditions, could reach $8 billion to $9 billion, according to a person who reviewed the report.
With much of the most volatile slice of the position sold, however, regulators are unsure how deep the reported losses will eventually be. Some expect that the red ink will not exceed $6 billion to $7 billion.
Nonetheless, the sharply higher loss totals will feed a debate over how strictly large financial institutions should be regulated and whether some of the behemoth banks are capitalizing on their status as too big to fail to make risky trades.
JPMorgan plans to disclose part of the total losses on the soured bet on July 13, when it reports second-quarter earnings. Despite the loss, the bank has said it will be solidly profitable for the quarter - no small achievement given that nervous markets and weak economies have sapped Wall Street's main businesses. To put the size of the loss in perspective, JPMorgan logged a first-quarter profit of $5.4 billion.
More than profits are at stake. The growing fallout from the bank's bad bet threatens to undercut the credibility of Mr. Dimon, who has been fighting major regulatory changes that could curtail the kind of risk-taking that led to the trading losses. The bank chief was considered a deft manager of risk after steering JPMorgan through the financial crisis in far better shape than its rivals.
"Essentially, JPMorgan has been operating a hedge fund with federal insured deposits within a bank," said Mark Williams, a professor of finance at Boston University, who also served as a Federal Reserve bank examiner.
A spokesman for the bank declined to comment.
In its most basic form, the losing trade, made by the bank's chief investment office in London, was an intricate position that included a bullish bet on an index of investment-grade corporate debt. That was later combined with a bearish wager on high-yield securities.
The chief investment office - which invests excess deposits for the bank and was created to hedge interest rate risk - brought in more than $4 billion in profits in the last three years, accounting for roughly 10 percent of the bank's profit during that period.
In testimony before the House Financial Services Committee last week, Mr. Dimon said that the London unit had "embarked on a complex strategy" that exposed the bank to greater risks even though it had been intended to minimize them.
JPMorgan executives are briefed each morning on the size of the trading loss. The tally could shrink if the market moves in JPMorgan's favor, the people briefed on the situation cautioned.
But hedge funds and other investors have seized on the bank's distress, creating a rapid deterioration in the underlying positions held by the bank. Although Mr. Dimon has tried to conceal the intricacies of the bank's soured bet, credit traders say the losses have still mounted.
While some hedge funds have compounded the bank's woes, others have been finding it profitable to help JPMorgan get clear of the losing credit positions.
One such fund, Blue Mountain Capital Management, has been accumulating trades over the last couple of weeks that might help reduce the risk of the bets made by JPMorgan in a credit index, according to interviews with more than a dozen credit traders. The hedge fund is then selling those positions back to the bank. A Blue Mountain spokesman declined to comment.
As traders in JPMorgan's London desk work to get out of the huge bet, which started generating erratic losses in late March, the traders based in New York are largely sitting idle, according to current traders in the unit.
"We are in a holding pattern," said one current New York trader who asked not to be named.
Long before the losses started mounting, senior executives at the chief investment office in New York worried about the trades of Bruno Iksil, according to the current traders.
Now known as the London Whale for his outsize wagers in the credit markets, Mr. Iksil accumulated a number of trades in 2010 that were illiquid, which means it would take the bank more time to get out of them.
In 2010, a senior executive at the chief investment office compiled a detailed report that estimated how much money the bank stood to lose if it had to get out of all Mr. Iksil's trades within 30 days. The senior executive recommended that JPMorgan consider putting aside reserves to deal with any losses that might stem from Mr. Iksil's trades. It is not known how much was recommended as a reserve or whether Mr. Dimon saw the report, but the warning went unheeded.
The losses are the most embarrassing fumble for Mr. Dimon since he became chief executive in 2005.
In appearances before Congress, Mr. Dimon has taken pains to assure investors and lawmakers that the overall health of JPMorgan remained strong and that it had more than sufficient amounts of capital to weather any economic dislocation.
Even as he apologized for the trade, calling it "stupid," Mr. Dimon emphasized to lawmakers that the loss was an "isolated incident."
The Federal Reserve is currently poring over the bank's trades to examine the scope of the growing losses and the original bet.

        
After JPMorgan Trading Debacle, a Chorus of Criticism
        
Loopholes Abound Despite New Rules

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); COMPANY LOSSES (79%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Bruno Iksil; Derivatives; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; London Whale; Banking and Financial Institutions; Derivatives (Financial Instruments); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1; Wall Street

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1067 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 448 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Decision Time

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times
The Supreme Court is expected to issue its decision on President Obama's health care overhaul law on Thursday, answering a few questions about the bounds of Congressional authority and the fate of the law, John H. Cushman Jr. writes. Laying out several ways the justices could rule, Mr. Cushman explains that there is still room for surprise in the court's decision, which is expected shortly after 10 a.m.
With most of the Supreme Court justices being age 70 and up, the winner of this year's presidential election could have significant power to reshape the court's ideological balance, Sheryl Gay Stolberg writes. Though the older justices show no signs of stepping aside soon, the chance of a vacancy adds to the stakes in the November contest.
The debate in Mitt Romney's campaign over how to characterize Mr. Obama's handling of a diplomatic crisis with China reflected "how Mr. Romney and his team respond to foreign crises and formulate policy in a highly charged political atmosphere," Richard A. Oppel Jr. writes. Mr. Romney's supporters say his eventual decision to take a hard line showed foreign policy prowess that would make him an effective president, while critics asserted that the decision was foolhardy and insubstantial.
In the July 1 edition of the magazine, Steven Lee Myers examines Hillary Rodham Clinton's performance as an improbable secretary of state. Mr. Myers, the State Department correspondent for The Times, notes that over the past three-and-a-half years (and for the next six months), Mrs. Clinton has helped Mr. Obama, her 2008 rival for the Democratic presidential nomination, navigate incessant diplomatic challenges while managing the least discordant national security team in recent history.
Happening in Washington
In the House, lawmakers will be considering whether to hold Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. in contempt for failing to turn over documents demanded by Republicans in their investigation of a botched gun-trafficking investigation.
Economic data expected today include first-quarter gross domestic product and weekly jobless claims at 8:30 a.m., followed by weekly mortgage rates at 10.
At 10, the House Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Committee on Finance will hold a joint hearing to review the tax treatment of capital gains.
At the same time, Lisa P. Jackson, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, will appear before the House Science, Space and Technology Committee to discuss the agency's practices.

        
The Early Word: Contingency Plans
        
If the Health Care Law Is Overturned, Anger May Not Be the President's Reaction
        
The Early Word: Inquiries
        
The Early Word: Split
        
The Early Word: Polarized

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (61%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act; The Early Word; transportation bill; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); LISA P JACKSON (58%); ERIC HOLDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1068 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: News Corporation's Big Move: Murdoch Informs the Staff

BYLINE: THE EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: After a vote by the board of directors Wednesday night, the company confirmed it would spin off its newspaper unit as a separate company. 

 BODY:
News Corporation announced Thursday morning that it would spin off its publishing division from its entertainment unit and create two separate, publicly traded companies. Here is the memo Rupert Murdoch, News Corporation's chairman and chief executive, sent to the company's employees.
Dear Colleagues:
It is with much enthusiasm and personal pride that I share with you today's news regarding our plan to drive towards the next, transformative phase of this organization you and I have built together into one of the largest, most innovative media companies of our time.
That very size and breadth has created an opportunity to separate News Corporation into two global leaders in their own right -- we will wow the world as two, as opposed to merely one.
I believe our leadership is born out of a spirit of innovation. We have never accepted the status quo. We have always been driven by the belief that we can do better -- deliver a better product for our audiences and provide better performing businesses for our shareholders. Our success has come from our speed, flexibility and creativity in responding to changing markets, in combination with our commitment to serving our customers' needs. 
Our publishing businesses are greatly undervalued by the skeptics. Through this transformation we will unleash their real potential, and be able to better articulate the true value they hold for shareholders. Our aim is to create the most ambitious, well-capitalized and highly motivated publishing company in the world, consisting of the largest collection of our news and publishing brands, as well as our groundbreaking digital education group; we will also work to create the world's top media and entertainment company, encompassing our premier broadcast and cable networks, leading film and television production studios and highly successful pay-tv businesses.
Much of our foundation already exists -- because of you. We have the creative minds. We have the assets. We have the brands. But we must realign and reorganize in this moment of opportunity so that we can heighten our focus and be faster, more nimble, and more adaptable to change. When we began this journey 60 years ago in Adelaide, we made a commitment to provide great journalism, while also entertaining our consumers. In news, information, data, literature, and digital content, no company has devoted the resources, the passion, or enjoyed the success we have. That will not change. The most important guarantee to free societies, free markets and free minds is free speech. Knowledge has changed the course of history in every society, and we believe that being a creator and distributor of information is not just the right thing to do, it's good business. The failure of other publishing companies to embrace the future has itself created opportunities for us around the world. Our publishing company will deliver on the promise of a well-informed society as we aggressively grow our business across borders and new global platforms. 
On the media and entertainment side, we have a reputation for inspiring and entertaining millions of imaginations every day. We have a history of empowering truly visionary, creative talent to take chances that have redefined the landscape again and again. Today, our creative content businesses have never been stronger. Our distribution assets, globally, are on full throttle. These businesses, at the core of an independent media and entertainment entity, will innovate and grow even faster. 
The most valuable commodities in the world today are information, analysis and education, with infinite potential through the growth of technology and digital platforms to accelerate the improvement of world living standards.
Today there are 30 million tablets in use in the U.S. and 75 million worldwide. In five years' time, there will be at least 75 million tablets in the U.S. and 375 million in the world. Smartphones will get far smarter and grow rapidly over the next 5 years, from 120 million active phones to 225 million in the U.S., and from 835 million to 1.7 billion in the world. These technologies will permeate all parts of life -- including education -- and it is my firm belief that these two companies will be best positioned to compete in this rapidly evolving global economy and distribute our premium content on these platforms. 
Over the years, I have become accustomed to the noise of critics and naysayers...and pretty thick-skinned! Remember what they said when we started the Fox Network, Sky, Fox News and The Sun? These experiences have made me more resilient. And they should you, as well. And time and time again, we persevered, creating new businesses, new products, telling new stories, informing and educating the public in new ways -- and giving jobs to thousands more people.
I am extremely excited by this big change. It is a testimony to our entrepreneurial spirit and determination to educate, inspire and entertain millions of families across the globe. 
I will personally be leading the creation of our new companies and will serve as Chairman of both organizations and as CEO of the media and entertainment company. Chase Carey will continue to partner with me on leading the media and entertainment business, by serving as President and COO. We are busy working on other important details and will inform you as they become available. 
Lastly, each of you will make this possible. I will forever be grateful for your loyalty, hard work, creative thinking, and most of all, for your support in making this transition a successful one. We have much work to do as we grasp the great opportunities that lie ahead.
I cannot express how much I appreciate all of your hard work up to this point, and for the promise of your continued creativity as we lay the foundation stones for these two great companies. Each will be unified in their spirit, in their determination, and in their dedication to touching and enhancing lives around the world.
Best regards, 
Rupert Murdoch

        
Anxious News Corp. Editors Arrive in New York to Discuss Corporate Split
        
News Corp. Makes $2 Billion Deal to Acquire Australian Pay TV Company
        
Klein Returns Full Time to Education Work at News Corp., Leaving Investigative Role
        
News Corp.'s Board Says It Has 'Full Confidence' in Murdoch
        
Murdoch Responds in Internal News Corp. Memo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (70%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); CABLE TELEVISION (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%) News Corporation; rupert murdoch; Carey, Chase; Murdoch, Rupert; Media; News and News Media; Fox Broadcasting Co; Fox News Channel; Sun, The (British Newspaper); United States; News Corporation|NWSA|NASDAQ; publishing

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Fox Broadcasting Co; Fox News Channel; News Corporation; Sun, The (British Newspaper)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%) News Corporation; NWSA; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (92%); CHASE CAREY (72%) Carey, Chase; Murdoch, Rupert

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1069 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: News Corporation's Big Move: Murdoch Informs the Staff

BYLINE: THE EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: After a vote by the board of directors Wednesday night, the company confirmed it would spin off its newspaper unit as a separate company. 

 BODY:
News Corporation announced Thursday morning that it would spin off its publishing division from its entertainment unit and create two separate, publicly traded companies. Here is the memo Rupert Murdoch, News Corporation's chairman and chief executive, sent to the company's employees.
Dear Colleagues:
It is with much enthusiasm and personal pride that I share with you today's news regarding our plan to drive towards the next, transformative phase of this organization you and I have built together into one of the largest, most innovative media companies of our time.
That very size and breadth has created an opportunity to separate News Corporation into two global leaders in their own right -- we will wow the world as two, as opposed to merely one.
I believe our leadership is born out of a spirit of innovation. We have never accepted the status quo. We have always been driven by the belief that we can do better -- deliver a better product for our audiences and provide better performing businesses for our shareholders. Our success has come from our speed, flexibility and creativity in responding to changing markets, in combination with our commitment to serving our customers' needs. 
Our publishing businesses are greatly undervalued by the skeptics. Through this transformation we will unleash their real potential, and be able to better articulate the true value they hold for shareholders. Our aim is to create the most ambitious, well-capitalized and highly motivated publishing company in the world, consisting of the largest collection of our news and publishing brands, as well as our groundbreaking digital education group; we will also work to create the world's top media and entertainment company, encompassing our premier broadcast and cable networks, leading film and television production studios and highly successful pay-tv businesses.
Much of our foundation already exists -- because of you. We have the creative minds. We have the assets. We have the brands. But we must realign and reorganize in this moment of opportunity so that we can heighten our focus and be faster, more nimble, and more adaptable to change. When we began this journey 60 years ago in Adelaide, we made a commitment to provide great journalism, while also entertaining our consumers. In news, information, data, literature, and digital content, no company has devoted the resources, the passion, or enjoyed the success we have. That will not change. The most important guarantee to free societies, free markets and free minds is free speech. Knowledge has changed the course of history in every society, and we believe that being a creator and distributor of information is not just the right thing to do, it's good business. The failure of other publishing companies to embrace the future has itself created opportunities for us around the world. Our publishing company will deliver on the promise of a well-informed society as we aggressively grow our business across borders and new global platforms. 
On the media and entertainment side, we have a reputation for inspiring and entertaining millions of imaginations every day. We have a history of empowering truly visionary, creative talent to take chances that have redefined the landscape again and again. Today, our creative content businesses have never been stronger. Our distribution assets, globally, are on full throttle. These businesses, at the core of an independent media and entertainment entity, will innovate and grow even faster. 
The most valuable commodities in the world today are information, analysis and education, with infinite potential through the growth of technology and digital platforms to accelerate the improvement of world living standards.
Today there are 30 million tablets in use in the U.S. and 75 million worldwide. In five years' time, there will be at least 75 million tablets in the U.S. and 375 million in the world. Smartphones will get far smarter and grow rapidly over the next 5 years, from 120 million active phones to 225 million in the U.S., and from 835 million to 1.7 billion in the world. These technologies will permeate all parts of life -- including education -- and it is my firm belief that these two companies will be best positioned to compete in this rapidly evolving global economy and distribute our premium content on these platforms. 
Over the years, I have become accustomed to the noise of critics and naysayers...and pretty thick-skinned! Remember what they said when we started the Fox Network, Sky, Fox News and The Sun? These experiences have made me more resilient. And they should you, as well. And time and time again, we persevered, creating new businesses, new products, telling new stories, informing and educating the public in new ways -- and giving jobs to thousands more people.
I am extremely excited by this big change. It is a testimony to our entrepreneurial spirit and determination to educate, inspire and entertain millions of families across the globe. 
I will personally be leading the creation of our new companies and will serve as Chairman of both organizations and as CEO of the media and entertainment company. Chase Carey will continue to partner with me on leading the media and entertainment business, by serving as President and COO. We are busy working on other important details and will inform you as they become available. 
Lastly, each of you will make this possible. I will forever be grateful for your loyalty, hard work, creative thinking, and most of all, for your support in making this transition a successful one. We have much work to do as we grasp the great opportunities that lie ahead.
I cannot express how much I appreciate all of your hard work up to this point, and for the promise of your continued creativity as we lay the foundation stones for these two great companies. Each will be unified in their spirit, in their determination, and in their dedication to touching and enhancing lives around the world.
Best regards, 
Rupert Murdoch

        
Anxious News Corp. Editors Arrive in New York to Discuss Corporate Split
        
News Corp. Makes $2 Billion Deal to Acquire Australian Pay TV Company
        
Klein Returns Full Time to Education Work at News Corp., Leaving Investigative Role
        
News Corp.'s Board Says It Has 'Full Confidence' in Murdoch
        
Murdoch Responds in Internal News Corp. Memo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (88%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (70%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (69%); CABLE TELEVISION (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%) News Corporation; rupert murdoch; Carey, Chase; Murdoch, Rupert; Media; News and News Media; Fox Broadcasting Co; Fox News Channel; Sun, The (British Newspaper); United States; News Corporation|NWSA|NASDAQ; publishing

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Fox Broadcasting Co; Fox News Channel; News Corporation; Sun, The (British Newspaper)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%) News Corporation; NWSA; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (92%); CHASE CAREY (72%) Carey, Chase; Murdoch, Rupert

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1070 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 17550 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Health Care Decision Live Updates

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The Supreme Court is expected to announce on Thursday morning its decision on the health care overhaul that President Obama signed into law in 2010. The Times is covering the decision and providing live updates, analysis and reaction from around the country. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@nytlive). 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court is expected to announce on Thursday morning its decision on the health care overhaul that President Obama signed into law in 2010. The Times is covering the decision and providing live updates, analysis and reaction from around the country. Follow along on the live dashboard and on Twitter (@nytlive).
Live Dashboard
4:18 P.M. | That's a Wrap
We're closing down this live stream of the Supreme Court's ruling on the health care law, but stay tuned to nytimes.com and The Caucus Blog for continuing coverage. Thanks for following along.
- 
3:56 P.M. | Voices: Manchester, N.H.

Name: Dr. Thomas Bisett
Age: 70
Location: Manchester, N.H.
Marital status: Widowed
Occupation: Pediatrician
Total family income in 2011: Around $75,000
Currently have health care coverage? Yes
For national health care overhaul? Yes
Preferred candidate: President Obama
MANCHESTER, NH - When Dr. Thomas Bissett, a 40-year veteran of pediatrics, got a text message saying the Affordable Health Care act was upheld, he was thrilled.
"I was wonderfully surprised, almost had a beer with lunch," joked Dr. Bissett, with a wink.
Mr. Bissett, 70, works at Child Health Services, a non-profit clinic here specializing in serving young patients whose families can't pay for their care. Some of those children, he said, are denied insurance coverage because of pre-existing conditions - which the law prohibits.
"We have always felt it was unfair to exclude children born with a catastrophic or fatal condition," said Dr. Bissett.
And the law could help the clinic, said Dr. Bissett, which has struggled as grants and philanthropic contributions have tapered in a time of economic uncertainty.
"Our survival was threatened because we stood alone as a turn-to agency for kids who can't find care elsewhere," said Dr. Bissett. "It's my understanding that the playing field will be leveled for those who provide care to the poor."
- 
3:54 P.M. | Republicans Wage Repeal Campaign on Twitter
Soon after the Supreme Court ruling was announced, Republican leaders took to Twitter with a new hashtag, #fullrepeal, aimed at helping focus the conversation on ousting President Obama in November and reversing the law.
The hashtag - and a new video on YouTube titled "The Final Verdict" - are all part of the social media strategy that Republican party leaders and Romney campaign officials agreed upon earlier this week in the event the court allowed the health care overhaul law to stand.
On Facebook, there's a Repeal It Now page with a link to a petition and fund-raising drive.
Read more
- 
3:42 P.M. | Reader Questions: Taxes in the Affordable Care Act
Noah Levinsonand several other readers asked about tax increases in the Affordable Care Act.
The law requires millions of Americans to buy health insurance or pay a penalty assessed through the tax system. The penalty gets phased in over time. In 2014, it is whatever is greater: 1 percent of a household's taxable income or $95 per person in the household, up to three people. After 2016, it is either 2.5 percent of a household's taxable income or $695 per person in the household, up to three people.
There are a few exemptions: for people who have lacked coverage for less than three months, religious objectors, illegal immigrants and others. The government also will not penalize you if you cannot find an affordable plan - defined as one that costs less than 8 percent of your income.
But the law attempts to make coverage affordable for everyone. It includes an expansion of Medicaid, federal subsidies to keep costs down for low-income households and certain strictures for insurers. Thus, the Urban Institute estimates that only about 6 percent of Americans would be asked to make the decision between buying care and paying the penalty.
The law also includes a number of revenue increases to pay for the expansion of care (see page 3). Those include an excise tax on "Cadillac" health plans and a 3.8 percent tax on unearned income for high-income households.
- 
3:41 P.M. | Health Care a Likely Issue in Battle for Senate
Much of the political chatter of the day has been about the impact of the ruling on the presidential campaign. But the decision may hold even more import in the battle for control of the Senate.
Republicans on Capitol Hill vowed on Thursday to repeal the health care law. But the truth is they can only do that if they control both chambers of Congress.
In 2010, anger over the health care law helped fuel a Republican wave that gave the party control of the House. If the court had overturned the health care law, that intensity might have faded. But now, conservative activists say they will be fired up again to do whatever is necessary to get rid of "Obamacare," and winning the Senate will be crucial.
The ruling could lead to a surge in attack ads about health care financed by third-party groups and aimed squarely at Democrats who voted for the health care law. 
"The last time Obamacare was litigated in a general election, Republicans picked up a historic number of seats in the U.S. House and made big gains in the U.S. Senate," said Jonathan Collegio, a spokesman for American Crossroads, a conservative group that aired some of the health care ads in 2010.
He added: "The Supreme Court effectively made the 2012 elections the most important in a century, and dramatically energized the center-right coalition in the process."
The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said on the Senate floor that Republicans should move past the issue.
"It's time, though, for Republicans to stop refighting yesterday's battles," Mr. Reid said. "Now that this matter is settled, let's move on to other things like jobs."
Judging from the reaction among conservative groups, that appears unlikely.
- 
3:09 P.M. | Voices: 'Might Not Be as Bad as Everybody's Saying'
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Lisa Herlihy, 45, said she was uncomfortable with the individual mandate upheld in the Supreme Court ruling. "I don't think it's right," Ms. Herlihy said as she took a smoking break from her job in the Cobra department at a third-party insurance administrator here.
But Ms. Herlihy had high praise what she has seen over the border in Massachusetts, which in 2006 passed a health care law that is considered a model for the national plan.
"They did it in Massachusetts, with the Connector," she sad, describing the online marketplace meant to make it easy to find competitive insurance rates - and subsidies - that the national law will make mandatory for all states. "If people qualify for it, it can be beneficial to them. It's set up nicely, it's there for them."
"In New Hampshire, we don't have that, so we get a ton of calls for people who can't afford to get Cobra," Ms. Herlihy said. "You get people saying, 'I can't afford this, what do I do?' In Massachusetts, there's assistance."
Ms. Herlihy said she thought that as more states became accustomed to such provisions, the controversy over the law might die down.
"I think everybody is so against it, and once it happens it might not be as bad as everybody's saying," she said.
- 
3:32 P.M. | Voices: 'Fuel to the Fire'
KENOSHA, Wis. - At the age of 55, Penny Schaubel lost her job in 2003 and then watched as the price of her health insurance, which she gets through her former employer, doubled over the following six years. 
Those payments have since gone down, but during some of that time, before she was eligible for Social Security checks, she and her husband were forced to dip into their savings to help pay the bills. 
"It was starting to become problematic," she said. 
Still, she considers herself lucky compared with many others around the country who have lost their jobs at a similar age and cannot get health care, just one reason she is a staunch supporter of the Supreme Court's decision about President Obama's health care law. 
She said her own health coverage has become increasingly more important to her in recent months, after her husband, Alan, was diagnosed with an advanced case of prostate cancer late last year. Mr. Schaubel, 64, has since started some treatments and will likely begin radiation in a few months, but he is not yet getting Medicare.
Political polarization over the Affordable Care Act may be evident all across the country, but in Wisconsin, Mrs. Schaubel said it is shaping up to be yet another "Continental Divide" for a state where a divisive attempt to oust Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican, from office earlier this month has already turned neighbor against neighbor and divided families.
Ms. Schaubel campaigned for the Democratic candidate, Mayor Tom Barrett of Milwaukee, who lost to Mr. Walker in the June 5 election. 
"It's horrid to live here now," she said about the political tension in Wisconsin. "It's only going to get worse. This is just going to add fuel to the fire." 
- 
3:21 P.M. | Voices: 'I Don't Think That Sounds Right'
DENVER - George Mowrey, who was peddling hot dogs near downtown, said he was uneasy about the Supreme Court's decision, particularly the mandate, after hearing about it on the news Thursday morning.
"I think from what I hear, they're going to force Americans to buy insurance. Insurance is a good idea, but I don't know if every American can afford it and whether it should forced on them like that," he said. "That should be their decision."
Mr. Mowrey, 49, said he did not currently have health coverage, that it was too expensive when one considered other bills he had to pay. Nor did he believe he needed it at his age. He planned on purchasing health insurance at some point, perhaps when he was older, but he wondered if the law would now require him to do it sooner.
"I am concerned about that. I don't think that sounds right to me - that we should be forced to do it," he said.
Mr. Mowrey, who owns his own hot dog vending business, said he does not usually vote and is not a registered Republican or Democrat. The Supreme Court decision certainly would not push him to the polls, he said.
"Possibly down the line, I might get insurance. Now I might be forced to. Maybe it will be a good thing. Maybe it will save a life," he pondered.
- 
3:23 P.M. | Voices: Denver

Name: Brian Comber
Age: 45
Location: Denver
Marital status: Divorced
Occupation: Fine Artist
Total family income in 2011: $30,000-$49,999
Currently have health care? No
For national health care overhaul? Yes
Preferred candidate: President Obama
- 
3:05 P.M. | Voices: No to Taxes
MANCHESTER, N.H. - The worst thing about this morning's ruling on the Affordable Care Act, said Dave Porter, as he pulled his clothes out of a dryer in a laundromat here, was the justices' use of the logic of taxation to defend it.
"I'm for less government intervention," said Mr. Porter, expressing a sentiment common here, where the state slogan is "live free or die."
"Spinning it a different way, making it a tax has been disappointing," added Mr. Porter, whose job as a teacher provides him with insurance. "I'm opposed to taxes that are imposed on me without my legislators and my state."
Mr. Porter was still trying to figure out how much latitude states will have to defy the ruling. "It's possible that if the state legislators don't implement it, it won't have teeth," he said, hopefully.
- 
2:54 P.M. | Voices: Support From a Small-Business Owner 
LOS ANGELES - On the West Coast, news of the court's decision greeted residents as they woke up. And many were trying to determine exactly what the ruling would mean for them as they headed to Starbucks for their morning coffee.
For Anthony Meindl, an artistic director who owns his own company, the decision means that he may one day have to provide coverage for his employees - a cost that he is currently spared.
Still, he praised the ruling.
"Everyone should have health insurance," said Mr. Meindl, 40. "I guess it will affect me as an owner of my own business, because I will have to make sure that my employees are covered. And I want to do that. Who doesn't want to support the people that are working for you? So I'm all for it."
- 
2:49 P.M. | Broccoli Carries the Day
James B. Stewart writes: To the delight of conservatives and libertarians and the dismay of many legal scholars, the Supreme Court ruled that the commerce clause in the Constitution does not empower Congress to force people to buy health insurance - or healthy green vegetables like broccoli, for that matter. Read More 
- 
2:44 P.M. | Hospital Stocks Rise
Judging by their stock performance today, large hospital systems are among the biggest winners in the wake of the Supreme Court decision.
As of 2:30 p.m., shares in the large hospital operator HCA Holdings was up more than 9 percent, and another large system, Tenet Healthcare, was up nearly 7 percent. Sunlink Health Systems, which runs a handful of community hospitals, was up nearly 19 percent.
Hospitals are expected to gain millions of paying customers under the law, which will help them address one of their biggest problems: the fact that they treat so many patients who cannot afford to pay their bills. According to the American Hospital Association, hospitals spent $39.3 billion in 2010 on care for people who could not pay.
"Uncompensated care was a big issue for hospitals," said Les Funtleyder, health care fund manager for Poliwogg, a private equity and hedge fund.
One potentially dark cloud: the Supreme Court's decision on Medicaid. There is concern in the industry that if some states do not agree to expand Medicaid, the hospitals will not benefit as much.
- 
2:41 P.M. | Reader Questions: What Penalties Will I Face?
Several readers asked variations on these questions: 
Starting in 2014, most Americans will be required to have health insurance and could potentially face federal penalties if they do not. Taxpayers will be required to indicate on their tax returns whether they have health insurance that meets minimal benefits standards, according to the Commonwealth Fund.
If a consumer does not have insurance by 2014, they would owe $95, or 1 percent of taxable income, whichever is greater. The penalty rises to $325, or 2 percent of taxable income in 2015, and then $695, or 2.5 percent of taxable income in 2016, up to a maximum of $2,085 per family.
But the experts at the Commonwealth Fund said in a blog post that no one would be prosecuted if they did not have insurance, and pointed out the rule's many exemptions. For instance, people who have incomes low enough that they are not required to file for taxes would be exempt (that's $9,750 for individuals, $19,500 for married couples and $27,100 for a married couple with two children). Individuals who cannot not find a health plan that costs less than 8 percent of their income would also be exempt.
- 
2:38 P.M. | Getting the News at the White House: Bad Information and Then Two Thumbs Up
President Obama initially heard that the Supreme Court had overturned a key plank of his landmark health care act before his White House counsel, Kathy Ruemmler, flashed the president a two-thumbs-up sign to indicate it had been upheld.
Shortly after 10 a.m., senior administration officials said, Mr. Obama stopped before a bank of four television screens next to the Oval Office that were carrying live coverage from the Supreme Court. Two of the four networks, CNN and Fox News, reported prematurely that the court had struck down the individual mandate as unconstitutional.
Mr. Obama, one official said, was absorbing the news with a quizzical expression on his face. Jack Lew, the White House chief of staff, stood next to him. When Ms. Ruemmler told the president that the court had upheld the ruling in a 5-to-4 vote, he broke out in a broad smile and gave her a hug. The two cable networks continued with the wrong reports, though with the sound turned off, Mr. Obama paid no attention.
- 
2:32 P.M. | Voices: Centennial, Colo

Name: Tom Burchfield
Age: 66
Location: Centennial, Colo.
Marital status: Married
Occupation: Retired
Total family income in 2011: $75,000-$100,000
Currently have health care coverage? Yes
For national health care overhaul? Yes
Preferred candidate: President Obama
- 
2:29 P.M. | More on State-Run Exchanges 
Following up on an earlier question about help for those who cannot afford health insurance: Starting in 2014, uninsured individuals will also be able to buy insurance through one of the new state-run exchanges. And individuals earning between 133 percent and 400 percent of the federal poverty level - that's $44,680 for an individual and $92,200 for a family of four - will be eligible for premium tax credits. The tax credits will cap people's premium contributions, ranging from 3 percent of income to as much as 9.5 percent. There will also be limits on families' out-of-pocket spending on deductibles, co-insurance and co-payments.
Of course, there are also a variety of more general benefits that help people who were locked out of the insurance market or limited how much coverage they were eligible to receive. The new law says that you cannot be denied coverage if you have a pre-existing condition, for instance, and many plans will be prohibited from placing lifetime limits on medical coverage.
- 
2:27 P.M. | Poll: An Unfavorable View of Repeal from Independents
Mr. Romney's pledge to repeal the health care law produced an even split among the public in an ABC News/Washington Post poll last month. But independents - voters he will no doubt court aggressively in the months leading to the election - responded more negatively than positively to it.
Over all, 40 percent said they had a favorable impression of Mr. Romney's proposal to repeal the health care law, which he reiterated today after the Supreme Court's decision. An equal number expressed an unfavorable view, and 2 in 10 had no opinion.
Not surprisingly, opinion was sharply fueled by partisanship. Nearly two-thirds of Democrats said they viewed Mr. Romney's proposal negatively, while three-quarters of Republicans had a positive impression.
But signaling a potential challenge for Mr. Romney, 33 percent of independents had a favorable view of his proposal to repeal the law, while more, 47 percent, saw it as unfavorable.
- 
2:26 P.M. | Voices: 'This Might Change Things'
LOS ANGELES - Like so many people in this town, Ann Marie Lindbloom is a writer and comedian. She also holds down a day job, working four days a week as a graphics specialist - clocking the minimum number of hours she needs to qualify for health care coverage through her employer.
"It's not the easiest thing to hold down both things. But I do it so I have really good health care coverage," said Ms. Lindblood, 41. "When you're 21, O.K., you can live without insurance. But when you're 41, and you start to get those little creaks and pains, you start to think, 'I don't want to have a catastrophic health care crisis and have no coverage.' "
Though Ms. Lindbloom, who described herself as a conservative Democrat, praised the court's decision, she said she did not yet know how it might affect her. She said she hoped it might allow her to keep her health coverage more easily if she chose to leave her day job.
"This might change things," she said. "I could feel a little more confident going into a freelance gig and not being afraid about not being able to get coverage."
- 
2:20 P.M. | Voices: In New York, 'The Stakes Were High'
About one million New York State residents are expected to gain coverage through the Affordable Care Act, through a mix of Medicaid expansion and the individual mandate, said Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, a trade group.
Had the court struck down the mandate, about half of those people would not have gotten coverage, he said.
"So the stakes were high," Mr. Raske said, adding that he was relieved by the decision. He said the ruling also left intact $10 billion to help hospitals to control costs through efforts like managing large populations with chronic illnesses.
Al Aviles, president of the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, which runs the city's 11 public hospitals, said he expected the Medicaid expansion to be attractive to many states because "it infuses a lot of dollars into local economies."
"Here in New York it will happen," he added, noting that, proportionally, the effect of the expansion might not be as great as in other states because New York was already "fairly generous with its Medicaid coverage."
Because Mr. Aviles's group is the largest provider of services to the uninsured in New York, "generally we think this is a good thing," he said. "This at least moves us in the direction of more universal coverage, although it doesn't take us all the way there."
New York long ago expanded its Medicaid program, whose costs are shared by the federal, state and local governments, to cover childless adults below the poverty line and parents who earn up to 133 percent of the poverty line. Because of the Affordable Care Act, childless adults earning up to 133 percent of the poverty line, or $14,856 for single adults and $20,123 for couples, will now qualify for Medicaid.
More than $2 billion in money for the state was riding on the decision, since the federal government would increase the federal share from 50 percent to 75 percent in 2014 and then to 90 percent in 2019.
"For New York, this is just an incredible victory because of the buyout of our Medicaid costs," said Deborah Bachrach, the former Medicaid director for New York and now special counsel to Manatt Health Solutions. "Finally New York gets rewarded for doing the right thing."
Elisabeth Benjamin, vice president for Health Initiatives at the Community Service Society of New York, was so happy with the ruling she could hardly speak. "Oh my God, isn't it amazing?" she said, laughing. "We know from the daily stories of the people we serve that this law is desperately needed. It's a beautiful day."
Ms. Benjamin - who also directs a statewide program to help consumers get benefits from provisions of the law that have already gone into effect - had worried that tens of thousands would lose coverage, including more than 3,000 sick people on a government subsidized "bridge plan" for those with pre-existing conditions and the young people who have been added to their parents' coverage.
"A.C.A. means so much for the boomerang generation," she said.
- 
2:18 P.M. | Health Spending Stopped Growing in Other Rich Countries
In 2010, health care spending stopped growing in the member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, according to a report released Thursday.
From 2000 to 2009, total health spending grew by an average of about 5 percent each year in those developed countries, after adjusting for inflation. But in 2010, it ground to a halt, the organization said.
Read more on the Economix Blog
- 
2:08 P.M. | A Reader Asks: What if I Have Insurance Already?
Stephen Montellano asked: 
The health care law contains several provisions that affect people who already have health insurance.
For example, under the law, consumers no longer have co-payments for preventative services, like cancer and diabetes screenings and vaccines for children, and insurers can no longer impose lifetime maximums on benefits.
There are smaller aspects of the bill that could also potentially affect employees with insurance, such as a provision that requires large employers to provide a private space and a reasonable break for nursing mothers and their babies.
- 
2:01 P.M. | Voices: 'Great News for My Family'
ATLANTA - About three years ago, Shamilla Clark was divorcing her husband and going through treatment for rheumatoid arthritis and a precancerous cervical condition when she was cut off from the family's insurance plan. Her husband's policy still covered their two children, but she and her two sons from a previous relationship were kicked off. Ms. Clark, now 33, still owes doctors close to $8,000 because the insurance company dropped her in the middle of her treatment. 
At her next job, the premiums were over $500 a month. She was only making $30,000 a year, so she went without.
Ms. Clark, an administrative assistant from Decatur, Ga., now has Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Georgia under her new employer. It costs her about $310 a month, and she does not have co-pays for checkups and annual gynecological examinations.
The Obama health care program will make her life easier. Her son, a senior in high school, can stay on her policy until he is 26. And she will not have to worry about getting kicked out of her plan if her 6-year-old, who has special needs, requires expensive specialists.
"I was nervous because I was thinking it was going to get shot down," she said. "This is great news for my family, but now the politics get fun."
- 
1:55 P.M. | Scene From the East Room
President Obama was not alone in publicly displaying a bit of satisfaction and relief at the Supreme Court's decision.
As the president spoke before cameras in the East Room of the White House, several of his senior advisers sat off to the side of the room, out of camera range. They included the president's chief of staff, Jacob J. Lew; Nancy-Ann DeParle, the deputy chief of staff and health care adviser to Mr. Obama as well as to President Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton in the 1990s; Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services; the presidential confidante Valerie Jarrett; the press secretary, Jay Carney; the communications director, Dan Pfeiffer; the domestic policy adviser Cecilia Munoz; the speechwriter Jon Favreau; and Cass Sunstein, Mr. Obama's regulatory policy adviser. When the president finished and jauntily walked back to his office, some of his aides broke into smiles and patted one another on the back.
Only a few reporters had been admitted to the East Room. And in a departure from the usual practice for the president's statements, they were directed not to bring any recording devices into the room, and the pool television camera remained fixed on Mr. Obama. At a recent statement on immigration in the Rose Garden, a reporter for a conservative Web site interrupted the president more than once, a breach that was captured by photographers and video cameras.
- 
11:24 A.M. | Voices: 'Shouted With Joy'
LEESBURG, Va. - "We laughed, and we shouted with joy and hugged each other," said Angela Laws, the 58-year-old owner of a cleaning service in Loudoun County, Va., describing her reaction and her fianc's when the decision was announced. Ms. Laws said she had been unable to get insurance because of her pre-existing conditions - diabetes and several back surgeries - and had been praying that the law would be upheld. "I couldn't find anyone who would even give me a price, she said. "I'm so excited."
- 
1:34 P.M. | Voices: 'What Does It Really Mean?'
KENOSHA, Wis. - Dressed in pale blue scrubs as he walked into a hospital building here, Howard Beaver, a manager in the respiratory care unit at the United Hospital System, said the long-term result of the Supreme Court's ruling was still a giant question mark for many people working in health care.
"I have no clue what the downstream effect will be," he said, criticizing politicians for pushing through the massive bill in 2010 without better explaining it to the public. "I've heard the Republicans' line and I've heard the Democrats' line, but I don't really know what the reality is. What does it really mean? I don't think anyone who is involved in health care really knows." 
Mr. Beaver, who would not disclose his political affiliation, said had been following the Supreme Court case closely and cited the health care law as the main reason that he was unlikely to support the president's re-election in November. 
"I feel like it's getting rammed down our throats," he said about the law. "What happens to each and every one of us is up to us, our physician and our family, and I don't think government should have anything to do with it." 
- 
1:41 P.M. | Ohio Governor Expresses Concern Over Medicaid Costs
As states weigh whether to expand Medicaid coverage of the uninsured, with the federal government picking up at least 90 percent of the cost, some officials are expressing concerns that even a small increase in health care costs could be tough to manage. 
Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, a Republican, warned of the tradeoffs involved in a statement he issued Thursday with his lieutenant governor, Mary Taylor. 
"We are very concerned that a sudden, dramatic increase in Medicaid spending could threaten Ohio's ability to pursue needed reforms in other areas, such as education," they said in the statement. 
The Supreme Court struck down the part of the health care law that threatened to withhold the money that states get for their existing Medicaid programs if they failed to expand coverage for the uninsured. 
With the threat gone, states are left with a choice. If they expand coverage, the federal government will pay the full cost at first, and ultimately pay 90 percent of it. If they do not, they will forgo all that extra federal money, but save the small state share they will eventually owe.
Medicaid costs have risen dramatically in recent years. It is the largest single portion of state spending, and rose to 24 percent of all state spending last year, according to the National Governors Association and the National Association of State Budget Officers. Over the past decade, the groups found, the growth in state spending on Medicaid exceeded the growth in all other categories, and has been twice as much as the growth in education spending.
Traditionally the promise of a big new stream of federal aid has been sufficient to persuade states to adopt new programs. But in recent years Republicans governors in Ohio, Florida, Wisconsin and New Jersey have turned down billions of dollars in federal money for transportation projects, arguing that their states could not afford the projects involved. Now the debate will center on whether they will accept federal money to expand health care coverage for the uninsured.
- 
1:33 P.M. | Voices: 'I'm All for It'
MANCHESTER, N.H. - George Pompeo pulled two letters out of his pocket as he sat outside in the downtown area here on Thursday morning. One was a letter denying him Medicaid coverage; the other was an appeal explaining he has Hepatitis C and cirrhosis.
"I'm all for it," said Mr. Pompeo of this morning's ruling, "because I'm a guy that can't even afford $4 for my medicine that I got prescribed yesterday."
Mr. Pompeo, 51, is unemployed and uninsured. He has struggled with alcoholism, but says he has been sober for a year and lives in the Helping Hands Outreach Center, a transitional house here in Manchester.
He is hopeful that the new law can help him; at the moment, he sees doctors when he can but has no means to deal with his bills. "I don't pay, I just don't pay," Mr. Pompeo said. "I'm not getting the care that I need. I had the liver biopsy, spoke with gastroenterology. She pretty much says, 'Your next visit is when you get some health insurance. Good luck.' "
But Mr. Pompeo is unsure what today's decision really means for his ability to get coverage. "So, how do I buy it?" he asked.
- 
1:29 P.M. | Room for Debate Google+ Hangout
Room for Debate will present a live video roundtable, via Google+, about the Supreme Court's decision. The half-hour debate, moderated by David Firestone of The New York Times editorial board, will include Robert Reich, Michael Cannon, Grace-Marie Turner and Maggie Mahar.
Room for Debate
- 
1:23 P.M. | A Reader Asks: What If I Cannot Afford Insurance?
Anthony Malandra asked: 
Several provisions of the law have already gone into effect to help uninsured people. Dependent children up to age 26 are now eligible for coverage under their parents' plan, for instance, which has already helped millions of young Americans.
The uninsured may also be eligible for coverage through the law's expansion of Medicaid, would will provide coverage to more lower-income individuals under the age of 65. So households with income up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level, or about $30,657 for a family of four in 2012, would be eligible. This is set to go into effect on Jan. 1, 2014, though some states - including California, Connecticut, Minnesota, Montana, Missouri, New Jersey, Washington State and the District of Columbia - have expanded their programs earlier under a provision in the law that allows them to do so, said Sara R. Collins, a vice president at the Commonwealth Fund, an independent nonprofit research group. But not all of the states have expanded coverage to 133 percent of the poverty level.
Even though states can now choose not to expand their programs in 2014, Ms. Collins said that the federal government is covering all of the costs through 2016 and then gradually reducing its contribution to 90 percent of costs for all states in 2020, and she said this would be a strong incentive for states to opt in.
Meanwhile, another federally financed program has been put into place for people who have been uninsured for at least six months and who have a pre-existing condition, she added. These so-called "pre-existing condition insurance plans" are available in all 50 states. Premiums will vary by state, but it will be required to cover no less than 65 percent of your medical costs and will limit out-of-pocket spending to $5,950 for individuals and $11,900 for families. The program ends in 2014, when the state-run health insurance exchanges become available.
Coming up: More details on the exchanges.
- 
1:13 P.M. | Voices: 'They Got It Wrong'
DENVER - "I think they got it wrong," Eric Poole said as he strolled near the downtown area here with his family. "I can't see how the court felt that the legislation was consistent with the Congress's ability to tax. It was kind of a stretch," 
A professor of criminal justice at the University of Colorado-Denver, Mr. Poole, 61, has a good health insurance plan through his work, he said. A Republican, he staunchly opposed Mr. Obama's health care plan.
"Generally, anytime I think the government gets involved in telling people what to do, that they have to do something that should be an elective personal decision, I have more libertarian leanings there," he said.
Still, Mr. Poole pointed out that he didn't look at the Supreme Court as being especially political, nor did he view its decisions as a litmus test for how he votes.
"How I was going to vote was unimpacted by the Supreme Court ruling," he said.
- 
1:17 P.M. | An Energized Obama and a Galvanized G.O.P.
Mitt Romney and other opponents of the health care law are now turning to the the ballot box in November.
Taken aback by the court's ruling, Mr. Romney and Congressional Republicans quickly pledged to repeal the law and to hold Democrats accountable for it, a strategy that conservatives believe will help energize their voters in the fall. But a repeal vote in the House, which the majority leader, Eric Cantor, hastily set for July 11, is merely symbolic, with the real debate unfolding over the final four months of the general election campaign.
The importance of the victory for the White House is difficult to overstate, for now at least. By winning in the Supreme Court, President Obama avoided being branded as a feckless and failed leader who invested too much time and political capital trying to overhaul the nation's health care system as the economy foundered. It is an emboldening moment that will energize his re-election campaign at the end of an otherwise frustrating month for the president, who is locked in a tight race with Mr. Romney.
But Mr. Obama's triumph will not necessarily endure. The president now faces the challenge of trying to sell the merits of the health care law again in the court of public opinion, even as Mr. Romney and Republicans can campaign on their promise to repeal the measure. It was telling that the president used his address from the East Room two hours after the ruling to explain the law and its benefits to Americans, something that even some of his supporters said that he had failed to do effectively after the law passed more than two years ago. 
Read the full article here.
- 
1:14 P.M. | Obama and Romney Raise Money Off Ruling
President Obama's campaign started fund-raising off of the health care issue Thursday morning, even before the Supreme Court announced its decision. 
Mitt Romney waited until just after.
In an e-mail to supporters, Mr. Romney asked for contributions, saying that "Obamacare is bad medicine, it is bad policy, and when I'm President, the bad news of Obamacare will be over."
Mr. Romney pledged to work to repeal the health care law "on Day One," and he cast the November election as a stark choice that would be underscored by the court's decision.
"Our basic liberties are at stake - and I will fight to restore our freedoms, renew the respect for our Constitution and halt the government takeover of health care," Mr. Romney wrote in the fund-raising appeal. "This November it's all on the line. The stakes couldn't be higher."
- 
1:10 P.M. | Pro and Con From Small-Business Groups
Leaders of the small-business group that challenged the health care law expressed disappointment in the court's decision and said they would push to repeal the law in Congress.
"We are incredibly disappointed in the outcome," Dan Danner, president and chief executive of the group, the National Federation of Independent Business, said in a teleconference. "We still believe that the individual mandate was a step too far into people's individual lives."
Mr. Danner says the law takes away choices for small-business owners and will raise health care costs for employers who are already struggling to provide coverage to their employees. He said he was most worried about what he called the "employer mandate," a provision that requires large employers to pay a fee if they do not cover their employers. The law excludes small business owners but the federation has questioned whether many of its members will actually be exempted.
He also raised concerns about the court's decision to classify the individual mandate as a tax. "Now that this is a tax, can it be raised at any time?" he asked.
Meanwhile, the Main Street Alliance, a small-business group that supported the law, hailed the decision.
"This is a good day for small businesses across America," John Costin, a business owner, said in a statement released by the alliance. "Small-business owners knew we couldn't afford to go back to the nightmare scenario that health care was for us before reform." The alliance has praised portions of the bill that provide tax credits to small businesses to provide health insurance to their employees and that create state-level exchanges for small businesses to purchase coverage.
- 
1:05 P.M. | Voices: Might as Well Move to Canada
MANCHESTER, N.H. - Arthur DesMeules reclined in a leather chair in Castro's Back Room, a cigar shop and lounge along this city's main drag, and took in Mitt Romney's televised statement on this morning's ruling.
"I think he's very much on target," said Mr. DesMeules, who, at 65, is a retired teacher who voted for President Obama in 2008, but "not this time."
Sipping a coffee, Mr. DesMeules said he was concerned that the new law would affect his Medicare coverage and that the individual mandate would further burden an overstretched health care system by bringing more people into it.
"A trillion dollars that we're gonna be in the hole, it is not good health care at all," Mr. DesMeules said. "There's going to be a point where people won't be able to choose the doctors they want. Might as well move New Hampshire to Canada."
Ashu Rana, a 41-year-old employee of the shop who was smoking a cigar next to Mr. DesMeules, said he did not think he would be able to afford to comply with the law. He has not had health insurance since he was laid off from a technology job about a year ago. "I don't have health care, and I'm not going to get it because somebody says I should," Mr. Rana said. "They're just going to fine me $300-something per year."
Mr. Rana does, however, approve of the provision in the law that prevents discrimination based on pre-existing conditions. "That's the only thing about the health care law I like," he said. "Have a cigar. Pre-existing conditions - you're covered!"
- 
1:08 P.M. | Voices: Manchester, N.H.

Name: Bette Sotiriou
Age: 81
Location: Manchester, N.H.
Marital status: Single
Occupation: Retired
Total family income in 2011: Under $30,000
Currently have health care coverage? Yes
For national health care overhaul? "I am for reform in some degree, but not this."
Preferred candidate: Mitt Romney
- 
1:02 P.M. | An Ex-Adviser Watches From a Distance
"POTUS pretty clearly in a good mood," Bill Burton said in a Twitter message as he watched President Obama deliver his response on television to the Supreme Court ruling. Mr. Burton was an Obama press adviser during the 2008 campaign and at the White House, but now, as a co-founder of Priorities USA, a pro-Obama "super PAC," by law he cannot coordinate with the administration or the 2012 campaign. So he watched from a downtown office.
- 
1:01 P.M. | Voices: Mixed Reaction From Outside the Court
Most of the crowd that gathered at the Supreme Court on Thursday had dispersed by noon, about two hours after the court ruled.
But earlier, the small stretch of sidewalk between the street and the court steps had attracted hundreds of protesters who were as varied as the views they came to trumpet. (Protests are not allowed on the steps themselves.)
Amanda Shell turned out with a group from FreedomWorks to oppose the health care law. After the ruling, Ms. Shell said she was "very surprised and disappointed in Justice Roberts." She was referring to Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who joined the for more liberal members of the court to uphold the law.
But she agreed with the court that the individual mandate should be viewed as a tax - and looked forward to using that aspect of the ruling as ammunition against President Obama in the presidential election.
"Now Obama has to face the fact that this is a tax, and a tax on the middle class," Ms. Shell said. "We will spread that far and wide."
Elsewhere, Edward Morris heard a speaker for the Tea Party declare, "This is not over." Mr. Morris muttered a response under his breath: "Yes, it is."
Mr. Morris, who described himself as "just an average American, said he was pleased with the court's decision and hoped it would allow more people to have health insurance.
"I pay a lot for health care, and I would even pay a little bit more if it helps somebody else," he said.
Greta Houston, a longtime resident of Washington, was also pleased with the decision. "I'm proud of that vote," Ms. Houston said. "Roberts has finally done the right thing."
She added, "God, this is fabulous, fabulous, fabulous."
As the morning turned to afternoon, Cindy Wilkerson, sweating and wearing an American-flag bandanna, stood in a cluster of disappointed Tea Party supporters who were beginning to pack up for the day.
Ms. Wilkerson, who lives in Laurel, Miss., said she had extended her visit to Washington by a week so that she could protest with the Tea Party on Thursday.
"I do not want government to tell me where and when I can get my health care," she said.
But even as other groups celebrated nearby, Ms. Wilkerson was optimistic.
"This decision will not stop us," she said. "It'll make us stronger."
- 
12:53 P.M. | Voices: 'A Big Deal'
KENOSHA, Wis. - "I have health care!" Courtney Wynia, 22, said when a neighbor informed her that President Obama's signature health care legislation had been upheld by the Supreme Court.
A business student at the University of Wisconsin-Parkside, Ms. Wynia is now covered by her parents' health insurance plan, and she hopes to stay that way as long as possible as she pursues an M.B.A. next year and, eventually, a law degree.
A provision under the law would allow her to stay on her parents' plan until the age of 26.
"This is a huge weight lifted off my shoulders," she said. "That's a big deal for people my age."
Ms. Wynia is especially pleased because of what the ruling means for her annual visits to an orthopedic surgeon, who is treating her for knee problems. In October, one treatment alone cost $3,000, which her health insurance covered in full because she had met the $1,000 deductible that year.
"It got to a point when I couldn't even go up stairs, it was so painful sometimes," she said about her knee.
That is not to mention other costs associated with her struggles with asthma, for which she visits a every three months.
"If I didn't have this, I'd be up a creek without a paddle," she said of her health care coverage.
Ms. Wynia said she still considered herself a "raging Republican" and said she did not agree with many of President Obama's actions in office. Still, she said she would keep the health care law in mind when the time came to make up her mind about whether the president should be re-elected in November.
- 
12:49 P.M. | Insurance Group Warns of 'Unintended Consequences'
America's Health Insurance Plans - a trade group representing the insurance industry and a powerful lobbying force - has responded to the Supreme Court ruling. Karen M. Ignagni, the group's chief executive officer, writes in a statement:
"Individuals and families need secure, affordable coverage choices. Maintaining the link between market reforms and universal coverage is essential to avoiding significant cost increases and loss of choice for consumers and employers.
"As the reform law is implemented, health plans will continue to focus on promoting affordability and peace of mind for their beneficiaries. The law expands coverage to millions of Americans, a goal health plans have long supported, but major provisions, such as the premium tax, will have the unintended consequences of raising costs and disrupting coverage unless they are addressed."
- 
12:37 P.M. | A Reader Asks: How Is the Mandate Constitutional as a Tax?
Aron Bergerasked: 
Think of it this way: Imagine that the government passed a law mandating that all Americans have children and also said that the penalty for not having children would be higher taxes. Then imagine that the Supreme Court ruled the so-called child mandate was unconstitutional but also said that Congress could pass a law requiring people without children to pay higher taxes.
Now leave the hypothetical world behind. Congress has in fact passed a law saying that people without children pay higher taxes. It is called the child tax credit, which reduces the taxes of people with children.
The court's ruling on health care today is not precisely the same as this hypothetical situation, but it is not so different. Congress's constitutional power to tax is broader than its constitutional power to regulate commerce. So, the court ruled, Congress can require people who do or do not engage in certain behavior to pay higher taxes.
- 
12:35 P.M. | Obama Praises the Decision and Urges New Focus on Economy
President Obama on Thursday hailed the Supreme Court's decision on the Affordable Care Act, saying that the politically divisive measure would improve health care for millions of Americans who have insurance and that it would expand coverage to millions who do not.
Speaking in the East Room, Mr. Obama offered a brief but intense defense of the embattled law, selling its major provisions as important reforms. 
"Whatever the politics, today's decision was a victory for people all over this country," Mr. Obama said as he listed the law's major provisions. "Thanks to today's decision, all of these benefits and protections will continue."
Mr. Obama did directly confront the issue of the individual insurance mandate in the law, noting that he did not initially support the idea. But he said that despite its being politically unpopular, it was essential.
"People who can afford to buy health insurance should take the responsibility to do so," Mr. Obama said. He noted that the mandate provision had been supported in the past by Republicans, including, he said, the presumed Republican presidential nominee - although he did not mention Mitt Romney by name.
Mr. Obama pledged to continue to carry out the law, but said the country should now turn its attention back to concerns about the economy.
"What we won't do, what the country can't afford to do, is refight the political battles of two years ago," he said. "Now's the time to keep our focus on the most urgent challenge of our time, putting people back to work."
He added that when people look back in five years, he is confident that they will conclude that "we'll be better off because we had the courage to pass this law and keep moving forward."
- 
12:32 P.M. | Romney May Have Trouble Distancing Himself From the Mandate
Even as Mitt Romney reinforces his opposition to the Affordable Care Act, he may be in for a struggle to distance himself from the individual mandate that the the high court upheld - albeit as a tax - on Thursday. 
When Mr. Romney crafted an overhaul of health care in Massachusetts as governor in 2006, he personally advocated for an individual mandate, which became a centerpiece of the system in place there. 
His argument: taxpayers were hurt because they had to foot the bill when uninsured residents received health care - an argument the Obama administration has made about the Affordable Care Act. 
In defending the requirement that individuals "pay their own way" in Massachusetts, Mr. Romney described it as the "ultimate conservatism," in a television interview. 
But Mr. Romney strongly opposed a similar mandate for employers, vetoing a statute of the health care legislation that required companies with 11 or more workers to offer insurance or pay a penalty of $295 per employee. 
The Democratic-controlled legislature easily overrode Mr. Romney's veto and reinstated it. 
Mr. Romney has since argued that while a state-sponsored overhaul of health care made sense for Massachusetts, it is not a one-size-fits-all solution for the nation, as he argues that President Obama's legislation seeks to be.
- 
12:29 P.M. | Voices: 'Let's Just Embrace It'
DENVER - "I'm so relieved! I'm actually really proud," said Diana Finkel, who teaches troubled youth, as she walked near the South Platte River in Denver.
"If it had to be 5-4, I'm glad we had a conservative justice came over," she added, referring to Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who joined the four more liberal members of the court in upholding the health law.
Ms. Finkel, who is 40, pays about $400 a month to buy her own health insurance because she is a contract worker. Though she was unsure how precisely President Obama's health care plan would affect her directly, it gave her solace to know that if she lost her job, she would still get health coverage. And she said she hoped that Democrats - specifically Mr. Obama - would do a better job of selling the plan to the American public this time around.
"They're so many friends of mine who are Republican and hate it. They don't know the good things about it," she said. "I hope that Obama embraces it now, and says, 'This is a tax. Fine. Let's use the word. Let's just embrace it and move forward.' "
Ms. Finkel, a registered Democrat, said the decision would have not affected the way she voted in November, but she chuckled when she talked about the debate it was causing within her own family. "Half of my family is Republican," she said with a laugh.
- 
12:25 P.M. | Voices: 'I'm Horrified'
KENSOSHA, Wis. - Sipping his morning coffee at a local cafe here, Frank Trecroci, 46, said he saw the effects of America's broken health care system every day as the principal of two local private schools. But when he heard about the Supreme Court's decision on Thursday to uphold President Obama's health care overhaul, it did not come as good news. 
"I'm horrified," he said. "This has catastrophic consequences for small business owners."
The head of Renaissance Schools, Mr. Trecroci, a Republican with ties to a number of local and state politicians, runs schools for children in prekindergarten through the fifth grade here and in nearby Racine. The schools enroll about 300 students and have 70 staff members, who currently have to buy their own health insurance. 
The law's individual mandate will cost the schools an extra $10,000 per employee, he estimated. He said the expense could force cuts in classroom materials, extracurricular activities and other school priorities. 
"We'll just have to tighten our belts across the board," he said. "A lot of education budgets are already strapped." 
Mr. Trecroci said he was looking into a co-payment option for his employees, but had been waiting to see the outcome of the Supreme Court's ruling before moving ahead. 
Yet despite his fear that government was getting too involved in health care, Mr. Trecroci said something needed to be done about rising health care costs, a problem he has watched many of his students and their families face. 
"It's too expensive," he said. "Too many of their conditions are not covered. People are going into bankruptcy because they can't pay hospital bills. Children can't get dental care." 
- 
12:23 P.M. | Congressional Budget Office Reacts 
The Congressional Budget Office said it would assess the decision's effect on projected federal spending and revenue, adding, "We expect that this assessment will probably take some time."
- 
12:23 P.M. | Some Lawmakers Too Quick on Twitter
Some Republican members of Congress took to Twitter on Thursday to declare victory after CNN and Fox News had inaccurately reported that the individual mandate had been struck down. 
They quickly deleted their "victory" messages, but the Sunlight Foundation's Politwoops site, which archives deleted Twitter messages of elected officials, found them. 
Here is what a half dozen lawmakers had to say when they thought the Supreme Court had ruled against the individual mandate, the centerpiece of the health care overhaul.
Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California: RT @repjustinamash: This is a big win for #liberty & the #Constitution.
Representative Tom Rooney, Republican of Florida - Breaking - #SupremeCourt strikes #individualmandate. Great news for American people, victory for constitution. #Obamacare
Representative Dennis A. Ross, Republican of Florida - Individual Mandate ruled unconstitutional. Let Freedom Ring. 
Representative Virginia Foxx, Republican of North Carolina - #UNCONSTITUTIONAL: #SCOTUS overturns #Obamacare's individual insurance #mandate. Developing... 
Representative Howard P. McKeon, Republican of California - Breaking: #Obamacare individual mandate ruled unconstitutional. More to come... 
Representative Aaron Schock, Republican of Illinois - Individual Mandate ruled unconstitutional...still developing.... 
Politwoops is a Web tool that reviews the Twitter messages of elected officials and points out when one goes missing or is edited. It also follows Twitter posts from President Obama and Mitt Romney.
- 
12:00 p.m. | Rushing to Report, and Getting It Wrong
The national news media mostly got it right on Thursday in reporting the Supreme Court's decision to uphold President Obama's health care overhaul law. But the cable news channels CNN and Fox News initially got it wrong, causing a day's worth of consternation and second-guessing. 
Both channels initially reported that the Supreme Court had struck down the individual mandate at the heart of President Obama's health care law in its totality. In fact, in a 5-to-4 vote, the court had upheld the mandate as a tax.[#x2028]
"The mandate is gone," the Fox News correspondent Shannon Bream announced at 10:08 a.m. as a graphic on the screen called it unconstitutional. A moment later, the Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly cautioned that Ms. Bream might be wrong. "We're getting conflicting information," Ms. Kelly said, while reading from SCOTUSblog, a Web site about the court. Citing the blog, she accurately told viewers that "the individual mandate is surviving as a tax."[#x2028]
At the same time on CNN, relaying information from the producer Bill Mears on the phone inside the court building, the correspondent Kate Bolduan said that "it appears as if the Supreme Court justices have struck down the individual mandate."[#x2028]
"Wow," said the anchor Wolf Blitzer, who immediately said that if the court had indeed done what she said, it would be a setback for Mr. Obama and the Democratic Party. "This is a victory, if you will, for the conservatives," said the CNN correspondent John King. A banner on the screen read, "SUPREME CT. KILLS INDIVIDUAL MANDATE."[#x2028]
On CNN, the mistake remained on the screen for six excruciating minutes. Producers at other television networks exchanged e-mail messages about CNN's error and thought to themselves, "Take down the banner."
"Let's take a deep breath and see what the justices actually decide," Mr. Blitzer said at 10:13 a.m., implying, wrongly, that the justices had not actually announced a decision.[#x2028]
By then, other news media outlets had digested the ruling and reported accurately that the individual mandate had been upheld as a tax, affirming the broader law. Reuters and The Associated Press issued bulletins saying that the law had been upheld. The broadcast television networks interrupted programming to say the same.[#x2028]
On CBS, in a scene reminiscent of famous cases past, reporters could be seen running down the steps of the court building with copies of the ruling. As the CBS correspondent Jan Crawford flipped through the pages, she said accurately that the individual mandate "may be in jeopardy under one provision of the Constitution, but they may have upheld the mandate under another provision." She added, "Very complicated," then returned the live coverage back to the anchor Scott Pelley so that she could read through the copy.[#x2028]
NBC and ABC, too, accurately reported between 10:08 and 10:10 a.m. that the law had been upheld.[#x2028]
"The bottom line here is, the Supreme Court has upheld the health care law," said Pete Williams of NBC.[#x2028]
"So the mandate is constitutional," SCOTUSblog said at 10:10 a.m. "Chief Justice Roberts joins the left of the court." The site's live blog reported its traffic peaked at more than 800,000 readers.[#x2028]
News organizations had days to prepare for the announcement, which was not leaked ahead of time. Editors and producers at several organizations said they would emphasize accuracy over speed in any coverage of the decision, lest they risk being wrong in the way that CNN and Fox News initially were.[#x2028]
Dan Kennedy, an assistant professor of journalism at Northeastern University, wrote in a blog post after the initial coverage: "I must admit, listening to Wolf Blitzer and John King trying to backtrack from their whopper made for riveting television. Will heads roll? Should they? People make mistakes, but good grief."[#x2028]
There were no indications on Thursday that any disciplinary actions had been taken at either network. In a statement, a CNN spokeswoman said: "CNN regrets that it didn't wait to report out the full and complete opinion regarding the mandate. We made a correction within a few minutes and apologize for the error."[#x2028]
Fox News did not apologize. Michael Clemente, a Fox executive, said in a statement, "Fox reported the facts, as they came in." He implied that the network's reporters shouldn't have waited to read the full decision before speaking.
"We gave our viewers the news as it happened," Mr. Clemente said. "When Justice Roberts said, and we read, that the mandate was not valid under the Commerce clause, we reported it. Bill Hemmer even added, be patient as we work through this. Then when we heard and read that the mandate could be upheld under the government's power to tax, we reported that as well - all within two minutes." 
Mr. Clemente then criticized MSNBC and CNN, saying, "By contrast, one other cable network was unable to get their Supreme Court reporter to the camera, and said as much. Another said it was a big setback for the President."
Strangely enough, several news wire services reported correctly that the mandate had been upheld before CNN and Fox News reported incorrectly that it had been struck down. Bloomberg News said at 10:07 a.m. that the health care overhaul had been upheld, and Reuters and The A.P. said the same within half a minute, according to Bloomberg.
- 
12:14 P.M. | Voices: Lakewood, Colo.

Name: Henry Smith
Age: 51
Location: Lakewood, Colo.
Marital status: Single
Occupation: Construction
Total family income in 2011: N/A
Currently have health care coverage? No
For national health care change? Yes
Preferred Candidate: President Obama
- 
12:15 P.M. | A View of the Events From the Romney Campaign
 Mitt Romney learned of the decision on Thursday morning in his hotel room at the Washington Hilton, where he watched television coverage of the ruling. Top aides - including Russ Schrieffer, a chief strategist; Neil Newhouse, the campaign's pollster; Lanhee Chen, the policy director; and Katie Packer Gage, the deputy campaign manager - were also on hand in Washington for the big day.
 The campaign had kept the details of Mr. Romney's statement a secret until the last minute, having the press gather at the Hilton on Thursday morning for a bus ride to a location that remained "TBD" until less than an hour before Mr. Romney made his remarks. Television correspondents broadcasting from in front of the podium where Mr. Romney was set to speak were not allowed to disclose their location.
 The campaign also stayed silent on the topic of the court's ruling, but for a few Twitter messages from communications staff members highlighting the amount of money the campaign (working with Mr. Romney's Victory fund) had raised since the decision came down - a number that had topped $300,000 by noon.
 Though Mr. Romney had prepared several possible responses for the likely outcomes, which he previewed at campaign events in Virginia this week, many in the campaign were privately surprised that the court had not overturned the mandate portion of the president's health care plan.
 Mr. Romney spoke shortly before noon on the rooftop of 101 Constitution, an office building in the shadow of the Capitol that also houses a Charlie Palmer steakhouse. The mood was subdued as reporters waited for Mr. Romney to arrive, and he was equally sedate.
 He strode calmly to the podium, decorated with a small "Repeal & Replace Obamacare" poster, and spoke for just over four minutes, beginning with a rather succinct and to-the-point declaration: "As you might imagine, I disagree with the Supreme Court's decision, and I agree with the dissent."
- 
12:09 P.M. | FreedomWorks: 'Not Going Away'
The Tea Party movement may not have been born out of opposition to the health care legislation, but it did grow largely because of it. FreedomWorks, one of the Washington groups most responsible for stoking the movement, issued a statement after the ruling vowing to "double down" in building more "grass-roots" opposition to the law, trying to undo it through the ballot box if not through the court.
"We are not going away," said Matt Kibbe, the president of the group. "It's time to double down on spreading the message that President Obama's individual mandate is an unprecedented infringement on constitutional liberty, and to take that message to the ballot box in November."
FreedomWorks' activists sent out memos in the summer of 2009 urging Tea Party supporters to disrupt town-hall-style meetings held by lawmakers to discuss the legislation, which was then under consideration in Congress. In January 2010, the group organized Tea Party activists from around the country to go to Massachusetts to help elect Scott Brown, who was running for the Senate seat that had been held by Ted Kennedy, a longtime champion of a health care overhaul. They bet on Mr. Brown to provide the vote that Republicans needed to block the law in the Senate, but Congress maneuvered to pass it anyway - leading hundreds of Tea Party protesters to descend on the Capitol that March. 
FreedomWorks and other Tea Party groups have also worked in states like Ohio and Virginia to pass laws preventing them from requiring people to buy health insurance. The group said it would continue such efforts, but the measures have been largely symbolic.
- 
12:04 P.M. | The Cost of the Medicaid Expansion to States 
How much money will states have to spend to extend Medicaid coverage to all adults within 133 percent of the poverty line? How much federal funding they will turn down if they choose not to? 
The Kaiser Family Foundation has the estimates (see Table 1 on page 10). Take, for instance, Texas. Kaiser estimates that in 2019, five years after the expansion would take effect, 1.38 million of the state's residents who were previously uninsured would be enrolled in Medicaid. The state would spend about $2.6 billion between 2014 and 2019 to extend coverage, while the federal government would spend about $52.5 billion in the state.
In aggregate, between 2014 and 2019, Kaiser estimates that states will spend $21.1 billion to extend Medicaid. The federal government will spend $443.5 billion.
- 
12:02 P.M. | Romney Says He Will 'Repeal Obamacare' if Elected
Mitt Romney declared on Thursday that he would "act to repeal Obamacare" if he is elected president, saying that he agrees with the dissenting justices on Thursday's Supreme Court ruling.
With the Capitol over his shoulder and standing in front of a lectern with a sign that says "Repeal and Replace Obamacare," Mr. Romney said the health of the American economy depends on getting rid of the health care law.
"Our mission is clear, if we want to get rid of Obamacare, we are going to have to replace President Obama," Mr. Romney said. "That is my mission. That is our work. And I'm asking the American people to join me."
Mr. Romney said the court's ruling underscores the choice before American voters, one that he said was between bigger government that potentially takes away health insurance choices or a Republican plan to preserve health care choices.
"We have to make sure that people who want to keep their current insurance will be able to do so," Mr. Romney said in the brief statement. "This is now the time for the American people to make a choice."
- 
11:53 A.M. | Obama Insisted Mandate Was Not a Tax
On Sept. 20, 2009, President Obama insisted that the insurance mandate in his health care bill was not a tax.
Today, the Supreme Court said it was.
In the middle of the health care fight, Mr. Obama was eager to avoid the characterization of the mandate - and its financial penalties - as a tax on people. He had promised no tax increase for middle-class families and Republicans were poised to pounce.
"No. That's not true, George," Mr. Obama said to George Stephanopoulos during an interview on ABCs "This Week" program. "The - for us to say that you've got to take a responsibility to get health insurance is absolutely not a tax increase."
In a contentious interview, Mr. Obama added: "What it's saying is, is that we're not going to have other people carrying your burdens for you anymore than the fact that right now everybody in America, just about, has to get auto insurance. Nobody considers that a tax increase."
But the court disagreed. They said the insurance mandate was, effectively, a tax on consumers of health care, and is therefore constitutional.
"Our precedent demonstrates that Congress had the power to impose the exaction in Section 5000A under the taxing power, and that Section 5000A need not be read to do more than impose a tax," the court wrote. "This is sufficient to sustain it."
Republicans quickly pounced, seizing on the tax language to suggest that the court had proved Mr. Obama to be a liar.
"Obama lied to the American people," Sarah Palin wrote on Twitter. "Again. He said it wasn't a tax. Obama lies; freedom dies."
Republicans quickly started using the hashtag "NOTATAX?" to highlight the court's assessment of the mandate. Kirsten Kukowski, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, issued a statement saying: "The verdict is in - Obamacare is a tax on middle-class Americans."
The committee also posted a video on a new Web site, www.peoplevobamacare.com. The video says: "The final verdict on the Obama health care law is now in your hands."
- 
11:49 A.M. | Hill Republicans Focus on 'Repeal' and 'Tax'
Republicans were quick to seize on two central themes: that they have the legislative prowess to undo the health care law themselves and that the mandate had been revealed by the courts to be the tax that Democrats insisted all long it was not. By conflating these two points, Republicans are presaging both the various avenues of potential repeal - some for undoing taxes others for repealing the health care provisions - and sending the clear message that the fight is not over. 
"The president of the United States himself promised up and down that this bill was not a tax," said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, on the floor of the Senate, less than an hour after digesting the decision. "This was one of the Democrats' top selling points - because they knew it would have never passed if they said it was," he said. "The Supreme Court has spoken. This law is a tax. This bill was sold to the American people on a deception."
 Mr. McConnell., who on this front is about as invested in a Republican-controlled Senate as any Republican in America, vowed that his party, "won't let up whatsoever in our determination to repeal this terrible law and replace it with the kind of reforms that will truly address the problems it was meant to solve." He added: "We pass plenty of terrible laws around here that the court finds constitutional. Constitutionality was never an argument to keep this law in place, and it's certainly not one you'll hear from Republicans in Congress."
The ruling quickly pivoted to House and Senate races, in which Republicans and groups that support them immediately began to associate Democratic candidates with tax increases. "Joe Donnelly likes to pretend he's not a liberal, but the fact is that Joe Donnelly voted for Obamacare, which the Supreme Court just recognized as a massive tax increase," said Chris Chocola, the president of Club for Growth in a statement denouncing a Democratic candidate for the United States Senate from Indiana. 
Several Democrats, particularly those in tough re-elections, quickly picked up on the "let's fix up the law together" theme. "Today's ruling doesn't mean this responsible, constitutional law can't be improved," said Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana. "But it is an important step forward in the fight to fix a broken system and hold big insurance companies accountable to Montana families."
- 
11:46 A.M. | Voices: 'It's Really Crazy'
LEESBURG, Va. - "I can't even wrap my brain around this, it's really crazy," said Lisa Jederman, who said she burned through all of her savings trying to mend her eyes from cataracts after losing her job as a construction manager during the recession. She received treatment at the Loudoun Community Health Center for very little money. She opposed the law, saying "it takes away our freedom to choose," but said she was glad that community health centers would receive more support under the law. "I wouldn't have made it without this place," she said. 
- 
11:39 A.M. | Some Relief in the Health Care Industry
Throughout Washington, lobbyists for players in the health care industry - hospitals, doctors, insurance and drug companies - were briefing their clients on the court's ruling and even Republican lobbyists were reporting some relief within the industry. One Republican, who asked not to be identified given the intensity of opposition in his party, said many in the health care industry either favored the law or had become resigned to it and just wanted certainty, but that they did not want to publicly enter the debate in support of the law for fear of alienating Republican allies in Congress.
A Democratic lobbyist said his industry clients favored a decision upholding the law to ensure stability, particularly since many companies have made financial commitments to comply with aspects of the law, and because the law holds real benefits for the industry: greater federal subsidies and more insured patients for care providers, and a much larger pool of healthy customers for insurance companies.
- 
11:35 A.M. | Voices: Manchester, N.H.

Name: John Mango
Age: 58
Location: Manchester, N.H.
Marital status: Married
Occupation: Shoe repair store owner
Total family income in 2011: Over $15,000
Currently have health care coverage? Yes (through wife's job)
For national health care reform? "Yes, but I don't think we should give it to illegal immigrants and union employees."
Preferred Candidate: Mitt Romney
John Mango, the owner and sole employee of Ye Old Cobbler Shop in this city's downtown area, is angry about President Obama and the health care law, and he doesn't care who knows it.
"The next thing that they're going to do is make sure we eat a pound of broccoli every day," said Mr. Mango, echoing a line of questioning made by Justice Scalia during oral arguments. "There's too much control in this country, look at what they're doing down in New York, trying to outlaw supersized drinks. It's overbearing."
Mr. Mango, who is 58, currently gets health insurance through his wife's health care plan, but she will retire soon. He is entitled to care from the Veteran's Administration, but he's worried that the law will force him to buy a new insurance plan on top of that. "I'm going to have to pay $500, $600 per month that I don't have right now, I'm going to have to scramble," he said.
The health care law has further stoked Mr. Mango's dissatisfaction with President Obama. He keeps several Mitt Romney signs in his windows, as well as a sign saying "Gone! 1-20-2013," which is the last day of Mr. Obama's first term. He is not worried that the signs will cost him customers. "I really don't care. Most of my customers that wear good shoes are conservative people," said Mr. Mango.
- 
11:39 A.M. | Governor Christie Reacts 
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, like other Republicans, criticized the health care law by seizing on the part of the ruling that allowed it to stand under Congress's power of taxation.
"I've been clear from the very beginning that I do not believe a one-size-fits-all health care program works for the entire country and that each governor should have the ability to make decisions about what works best for their state," Mr. Christie said. "Today's Supreme Court decision is disappointing, and I still believe this is the wrong approach for the people of New Jersey who should be able to make their own judgments about health care. Most importantly, the Supreme Court is confirming what we knew all along about this law - it is a tax on middle-class Americans."
Mr. Christie, considered a rising star in his party, recently vetoed a law passed by New Jersey's Democratically-controlled legislature that would have set up the state's health care exchange, saying he wanted to wait until the Supreme Court issued its ruling on health care. His statement on Thursday did not say whether or not he would now support allowing the exchange to move forward.
- 
11:27 A.M. | A Re-examination of Roberts's Legacy?
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. surprised many on Thursday by providing the crucial fifth vote for upholding President Obama's health care law. To those on the left who viewed him as an ideologue eager to pull the court rightward in a political fashion, this will now begin a re-examination of his style and legacy as it will for those on the right who considered the law unconstitutional and relied on him to make that point.
Many scholars have said that Chief Justice Roberts sought to balance his own conservatism with his desire to build faith in the law and the nation's legal institutions. But it was still striking to hear Mr. Roberts, who arrived on the court in 2005 appointed by George W. Bush, announce the upholding of the central legislative pillar of the Obama administration. He did arrive on the bench asserting the desire to restore the court's reputation and reduce partisan rhetoric. But he was seen by many, at least on the left, as a right-winger more devoted to conservative politics than the purity of the law. That could change.
 "This could be a huge day in the evolution of Chief Justice Roberts as a great chief justice," Laurence H. Tribe, the liberal Harvard law professor, said. Mr. Tribe, who taught Mr. Roberts, said he had not opposed his nomination because he believed Mr. Roberts was less of an ideologue than many charged. "I have some sense of gratification," he said.
In the past, especially on campaign finance law but also on other socially sensitive issues like abortion and affirmative action, Mr. Roberts has not shied away from leading a conservative redraft of previously established law, causing some to accuse him of judicial activism.
But in this case, by referring to Congress's power to impose a tax rather than a mandate, Mr. Roberts used the Obama administration's backup argument about what makes the health care law constitutional.
If President Bush ends up ruing the day he placed Mr. Roberts in his position, he would not be the first. His father appointed David H. Souter to the court, and Mr. Souter ended up a mainstay of the court's liberal wing. Dwight D. Eisenhower was said to have called his appointments of Earl Warren and William J. Brennan Jr. two of his biggest mistakes.
- 
11:25 A.M. | Romney to Respond
Mitt Romney will deliver his response to the Supreme Court's health care decision at 11:45 a.m., appearing in Washington, D.C., a half-hour before President Obama makes a statement at the White House.
An advisory from Mr. Romney's campaign said he would make remarks at 101 Constitution Avenue in Washington, on the 9th floor.
The White House said the president would deliver his statement in the East Room to a small group of reporters.
- 
11:21 A.M. | Pelosi to Vicki Kennedy: 'Now Teddy Can Rest'
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the minority leader, was in the last minutes of a meeting with her leadership lieutenants at the Capitol when she learned of the court's ruling and returned to her office to make phone calls. She had to leave messages for President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., but she connected with Vicki Kennedy, widow of Senator Ted Kennedy, the Senate sponsor of the health care legislation, who died before the legislation passed. "Now Teddy can rest," Mrs. Pelosi said, according to a Congressional aide. She called her husband, Paul Pelosi, announcing, "Sweetie, we won!"
She wore what she calls her lucky purple pumps, the same shoes she wore on March 21, 2010, when the legislation passed. Pelosi staffers gathered to cheer her, and she proceeded to a meeting of House Democrats to review the ruling with them. En route she ran into Representative George Miller, another Democrat from California who is her closest ally perhaps, and the two hugged. 
"What a great victory," she said.
Mr. Miller replied, "You bet your ass."
"I did!" Mrs. Pelosi said.
- 
11:20 a.m. | What's at Stake in the Medicaid Expansion? 
The Supreme Court has limited a portion of the Affordable Care Act that would add an estimated 16 million additional people to the Medicaid and state children's health insurance programs by 2019.
President Obama's health care law required states in 2014 to expand Medicaid eligibility to all adults within 133 percent of the poverty line. (Currently, the federal poverty line is $11,170 for a household of one and $23,050 for a household of four.) Right now, many states do not offer Medicaid coverage to low-income, able-bodied adults without dependent children.
To get states to comply, the Affordable Care Act offered them federal dollars to pay for much of the expansion, and put their existing Medicaid funding at stake if they did not expand coverage. The court decided Thursday that states have the option not to expand coverage and to turn down those new federal funds - and that they cannot lose their existing federal Medicaid funding if they do so. In short: You can take or leave the new money for the new expansion without penalty.
We will be watching states carefully, to see if they are planning on accepting the new federal funds for new enrollees. Health care providers will presumably put significant pressure on states to expand Medicaid.
- 
10:42 P.M. | Voices: Sigh of Relief 
"It was such a great sigh of relief," said Norman Garland, a retiree in Lincoln, Neb., whose wife Pamela is a cancer patient, in a telephone interview. "I'm just really, really happy for everybody. I'm not an Obama fan, but the Republicans put him down so bad, and this is really something for all the people."
- 
11:10 A.M. | Tea Party Protest: Resist 'By Any Means Necessary'
The speechifying continues in the blazing sun outside the court. One member of the Tea Party movement vowed to resist the health care law "by any means necessary."
Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, took to the microphones next.
"I am a servant from East Texas," he began.
A heckler shouted, "You're an idiot from East Texas."
Mr. Gohmert gathered himself up and continued, "The president said the mandate is not a tax. He promised Congress that this is not a tax. But the Supreme Court made clear today it is a tax, they made clear that everyone who works for this president and believes this president are fools."
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota denounced the health care law as a "tax" and expounding at length about the "severability" of other provisions from the mandate. Other lawmakers lined up to speak next.
- 
11:05 a.m. | A Precedent for Presidential Dis-Appointments
The quick reaction to the decision by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. to join the liberals on the court in upholding the health care law, albeit as a tax rather than as a commerce clause mandate, has stirred conservatives who feel betrayed by one of their own. But if George W. Bush is disappointed by his appointee, he joins a long line of frustrated presidents.
Many occupants of the Oval Office have come to rue at least one of the decisions made by justices they appointed to the Supreme Court. Richard M. Nixon's appointees forced him to hand over the Watergate tapes that pushed him from office. The elder President Bush appointed David H. Souter who became a mainstay of the court's liberal wing. Bill Clinton's appointees voted to let Paula Jones proceed with her sexual harassment lawsuit, leading to the deposition where he gave false testimony about Monica Lewinsky that got him impeached. Dwight D. Eisenhower was said to call his appointments of Earl Warren and William J. Brennan Jr. his two biggest mistakes.
Maybe the best reaction from a seemingly jilted president came from Theodore Roosevelt, who grew so angry at one decision by Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., whom he had put on the bench, that he snapped, "I could carve out of a banana a judge with more backbone than that."
- 
11:03 A.M. | Health Care as an Issue
Health care will likely be a factor in November's presidential election, but polls show it does not hold nearly as much importance to voters as the economy does right now.
An ABC News/Washington Post poll conducted last month asked respondents what the single most important issue in their choice for president was. More than half, 52 percent, volunteered the economy, trumping all other issues by far. Health care came in second, but was cited by just 7 percent.
A Pew poll conducted earlier this month asked voters what they most wanted to hear the presidential candidates talk about. Just over 4 in 10, 42 percent, volunteered the economy, while another 13 percent said the job situation. Fewer than 2 in 10, 18 percent, said health care.
In a separate question, Pew asked voters what issue mattered most to them in deciding their vote for president and offered six issues to choose from. A plurality, 35 percent, said jobs, followed by 23 percent who said the budget deficit. Health care ranked third, chosen by 19 percent. The poll found that voters who said they were certain to support Barack Obama were more likely to name health care than other voters were. When asked what their second most important issue is, voters closely split between health care, jobs and the deficit.
- 
10:58 P.M. | About That Presidential Election...
The Supreme Court's decision to let stand President Obama's health care law now quickly shifts the debate back to the presidential election and an electorate that has been highly polarized over the issue for years.
For Mr. Obama, the ruling powerfully reaffirms the legal judgment of his administration and gives him a new campaign argument to make for re-election - to prevent Republicans from doing in Congress what the court declined to do on Thursday.
But the ruling also has the potential to re-energize the Tea Party movement, which was largely born out of opposition to the health care law, and provide new political power to Mitt Romney's pledge to repeal the law if he wins the White House in November.
Disappointment and anger among conservatives at the decision could also translate into a powerful electoral issue in Congressional races as well. Republicans eager to seize control of the Senate now have a renewed rallying cry in races across the country.
"It's a boost for the president, but it doesn't make the controversy go away," Karl Rove, a former aide to former President George W. Bush, said on Fox News moments after the ruling was announced. "In fact, it probably enhances the controversy."
White House officials said Mr. Obama would make remarks about the case within a couple of hours. Reporters following Mr. Romney said they were told to prepare for a statement from him around noon.
In recent days, Mr. Romney made it clear how he would respond to a decision upholding the health care law. Speaking to a crowd in Salem, Va., on Tuesday, Mr. Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, offered a peek at what his message will be.
"If it stands, we are going to get rid of Obamacare, and I'm going to stop it on Day 1," he said.
Aides to Mr. Romney said they believed the court's decision will be one of the defining moments of the rest of the campaign. The specter of Mr. Obama implementing his health care law during a second term will animate Mr. Romney's supporters, they said.
But the decision also puts new pressure on Mr. Romney to explain how he would reform health care if he was able to overturn Mr. Obama's effort. That challenge is made more difficult by his embrace of a similar plan in Massachusetts when he was governor.
Republicans quickly issued statements on Thursday morning promising to move fast against the law now that the court decision is behind them.
"Today's ruling underscores the urgency of repealing this harmful law in its entirety," House Speaker John A. Boehner said. "Republicans stand ready to work with a president who will listen to the people and will not repeat the mistakes that gave our country Obamacare."
But Democrats hailed the decision as a victory for millions of Americans who will be provided insurance after the act is fully implemented.
"This decision is a victory for the American people," said Representative Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader in the House. "With this ruling, Americans will benefit from critical patient protections, lower costs for the middle class, more coverage for families, and greater accountability for the insurance industry."
Jim Kessler, the senior vice president of Third Way, a liberal research group in Washington, called the decision a victory for Mr. Obama but said the president's campaign team and his Democratic allies have a challenge ahead of them to explain the ruling.
"I think it's a big win for Obama if they handle it right," Mr. Kessler said. "What they need to be saying is to declare that the fight is now over. It's been decided by Congress. It's been decided by the courts. This is now over. It's in the past."
- 
10:52 A.M. | Solemn Reaction in South Carolina Attorney General's Office
- 
10:56 A.M. | Hill Republicans Pledge Full Repeal
Republicans, like Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader, were quick to dismiss the court as "black robes" - language many liberals had used in anticipation of the opposite ruling - and several immediately vowed to undo the legislation on the Hill. "The only way to save the country from Obamacare's budget-busting government takeover of health care is to completely repeal it," said Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota. 
Republicans also used the moment to press their case against President Obama. "It's never been more important that we elect a president who understands the marketplace and will make job creation his top priority," said Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, the chairman of the Republican Governors Association, in a prepared statement. "By replacing Barack Obama with Mitt Romney, we will not only stop the federal government's health care takeover, but will also take a giant step towards a full economic recovery."
Congressional Democrats seemed less celebratory than relieved, like a patient given a less-grim diagnosis than expected. 
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, took to the Senate floor to praise the court, saying "the rule of law" had been place "ahead of partisanship." Mr. Reid suggested the law would be tweaked in Congress to address some unpopular elements. "We will do that working together," he said. "Our Supreme Court has spoken," he said, cautioning against Republicans' insistence on legislative repeal. 
Representative Nancy Pelosi almost immediately released a statement that read: "This decision is a victory for the American people. With this ruling, Americans will benefit from critical patient protections, lower costs for the middle class, more coverage for families, and greater accountability for the insurance industry." She added: "In passing health reform, we made history for our nation and progress for the American people. We completed the unfinished business of our society and strengthened the character of our country. We ensured health care would be a right for all, not a privilege for the few. Today, the Supreme Court affirmed our progress and protected that right, securing a future of health and economic security for the middle class and for every American."
The National Republican Congressional Committee chairman, Pete Sessions, a Republican congressman from Texas, released a one sentence news release: "Americans still want #FullRepeal."
- 
10:50 A.M. | Decision Restricts Expansion of Medicaid
The decision did significantly restrict one major portion of the law: the expansion of Medicaid, the government health insurance program for low-income and sick people. The ruling give states some flexibility not to expand their Medicaid programs, without paying the same financial penalties the law for.
- 
10:45 A.M. | Voices: 'Everyone Can Benefit'
 "It's fantastic news," said Jude Bello, who manages several properties in Sugarland, Tex., by telephone. Mr. Bello's wife is a cancer patient and has health insurance through a program set up by the Affordable Care Act. "That's good, it so good for the country, it's excellent for the country. Everyone can benefit."
- 
10:39 P.M. | Tea Party Express Reacts
The Supreme Court's health care ruling is still being parsed. But the reaction is already pouring in.
Tea Party Express, a group opposed to the president's health care law, issued a statement saying it is committed to repealing it.
"The Supreme Court ruled to uphold this unprecedented intrusion of the federal government into our personal health care decisions," said Amy Kremer, the chairman of the group.
"The American people still reject this legislation as bad policy and unwanted government interference with their lives," Ms. Kremer added in the statement. "We will continue to work to defeat Obamacare at the ballot box in November by electing fiscal conservatives ready and willing to represent the will of the people by fully repealing every piece of this legislation."
- 
10:38 A.M. | Read the Decision
The Supreme Court has posted its ruling.
Read it here
- 
10:26 P.M. | More From Outside the Court
Outside the court, a loud cheer goes up as word spreads that the health care law is largely upheld. Chants of "Yes We Can!" ring out as opponents are largely silent.
- 
10:26 A.M. | Supreme Court Allows Health Care Law Largely to Stand
The Supreme Court on Thursday largely let stand President Obama's health care overhaul, in a mixed ruling that Court observers were rushing to analyze.
The decision was a striking victory for the president and Congressional Democrats, with a majority, including the conservative chief justice, John G. Roberts Jr., affirming the central legislative pillar of Mr. Obama's term.
Read more
- 
10:17 A.M. | Reaction in Virginia
LEESBURG, Va. - As word spread that the Supreme Court appeared to have allowed the health care law to largely stand, some of those waiting at the Loudoun Community Health Center expressed relief. "I am so happy, I have goose bumps," Pricilla Jacques, a 53-year old unemployed administrative assistant waiting to be seen at the center. "Thank God. I am so happy. This is really good for everyone. It really is."
- 
10:11 A.M. | Updated
In The New York Times/CBS News poll conducted earlier this month, nearly three-quarters of Americans expressed knowledge of the 2010 health care law, saying they had heard or read "a lot" or "some" about the details of the law.
Disapproval for the law rose with reported awareness of what was in the law - 6 in 10 who said they knew "a lot" about the details strongly disapproved, compared to about 3 in 10 that strongly approved.
Yet when Americans are asked about specific provisions in the law, many have expressed support for the particular policies.
Eighty-five percent of Americans approved of the provision requiring health insurance companies to cover anyone with an existing medical condition, according to The Times/CBS News survey conducted in March 
Nearly 8 in 10 approved of the provision that provides discounts to reduce the Medicare prescription drug coverage gap, or "donut hole," that forced seniors who had reached their Medicare prescription drug limit into paying the full cost for their medications.
Nearly 7 in 10 approved of allowing children under the age of 26 to stay on their parents' health insurance policies.
And the controversial individual mandate, requiring nearly all Americans to have health insurance coverage by 2014? Americans were divided, with 45 percent approving and 51 percent disapproving.
- 
10:08 A.M. | Supreme Court Rules on Health Care Law
The Supreme Court has ruled on President Obama's health-care overhaul, and Times reporters and editors are analyzing the decision. Once we are comfortable with its basic meaning, you can expect a torrent of coverage. 
You can also read the decision itself on the court's Web site.
- 
10:05 A.M. | Health Care Is Personal
Much has been written about the Democrats' missed opportunity to sell the health care law to the American people, and the huge amount of money poured into advertising by conservative groups against the law.
And poll results show that since the legislation was enacted in 2010, most Americans have not yet encountered any effects from the law's provisions, leaving them unable to report personal benefits.
In The New York Times/CBS News poll conducted in March, only about 1 in 5 Americans said the health care law would help them personally, while about 3 in 10 said it would mostly hurt them, and about 4 in 10 said it wouldn't have much an effect on them. These opinions have barely changed from when the bill was being debated in March 2010.
A majority of Americans also expressed concerns that their access to the law would be more limited under the law, that they would be required to change doctors, and that the cost of their own care would increase.
- 
9:55 P.M. | When Will Obama Speak?
Want to know what President Obama is up to Thursday? You can check his official schedule here, but notice that there is a little something missing: his plans for reacting to the court's health care decision.
There is a lot of guessing as to when Mr. Obama might speak to the nation about the Supreme Court decision. Will it be before his lunch with the vice president? Will it be before he goes to visit wounded soldiers at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center?
So far, the White House is not saying. Stay tuned for the latest updates on the president's reaction.
- 
9:39 P.M. | The Scene Outside the Court
If there can be such a thing as anticipatory judicial carnival, there is one under way outside of the Supreme Court. Several hundred demonstrators are packing the sidewalk, playing music, chanting slogans and, yes, belly dancing. One of the two dancers, Angela Petry, 44, of Berkeley Springs, W.Va., said they were hoping the court struck down the individual mandate and Congress immediately replaces it with a single-payer system. "It's what all the other industrialized nations have," Ms. Petry said. Meanwhile a group of several dozen people who hope to see the health care law upheld are line dancing to Stevie Wonder's "Signed, Sealed, Delivered."
- 
9:38 A.M. | Romney and the Individual Mandate
On Thursday, Mitt Romney called President Obama's health care law "bad policy." 
But six years ago, as governor of Massachusetts, Mr. Romney praised the idea of an individual mandate, which serves as a centerpiece of what Republicans call "Obamacare."
A Democratic group dug up a new video in the Massachusetts state archives. In it, Mr. Romney says that "with regards to the individual mandate, the individual responsibility program that I proposed, I was very pleased that the compromise between the two houses includes the personal responsibility mandate."
See the video here.
- 
9:37 A.M. | Obama Campaign Seeks Donations Before Decision
With just hours to go before the fate of President Obama's health care law is known, his campaign manager sought to raise a few dollars off the Supreme Court's pending decision.
"We don't know what will happen this morning," Jim Messina, the campaign manager, wrote in an e-mail to supporters. "But no matter what, today is an important day to have Barack Obama's back. If you're with him, donate now - before this week's critical fund-raising deadline."
Mr. Obama's top campaign officials have repeatedly said they are worried about being out-raised by Mitt Romney and the independent groups backing him. In the e-mail, Mr. Messina hinted that the president's campaign would respond quickly to the court's ruling.
"More soon," he promised.
- 
9:33 A.M. | In the Waiting Room
LEESBURG, Va. - It is a day like any other at the Loudoun Community Health Center, where dozens of patients - construction workers, real estate agents and house cleaners, most of them uninsured - wait with strollers and canvas bags to be seen for free or at little cost.
But whichever way the Supreme Court rules, the lives of these people will be deeply affected. If the law is struck down, they will remain stuck in the limbo of no insurance. If it is upheld, many in this gray-carpeted waiting room will be eligible for insurance, some for the first time ever.
"We are waiting for this law," said Muna Khawaja, a 42-year-old mother of five, who was sitting in the health center with her 14-year-old daughter. Her husband had to sell his restaurant, Chicken Tonight, during the recession, and has been earning about $50,000 a year as a manager in another restaurant, too much for their children to qualify for Medicaid, but not enough to afford the more than $600 a month it would cost to buy insurance on their own.
"Is $50,000 too much for seven people?" she said. "I hope we are going to have insurance."
Once a rural farming county, Loudoun is now increasingly suburban and home to a number of tech companies, and government agencies. It is one of the country's wealthiest. It is also one of the country's fastest growing.
But the end of the construction boom and the recession dealt a painful blow to workers here, and the number of patients the health center serves has more than quadrupled since it opened in May, 2007. Last year doctors here saw 6,000 patients, said Debra Dever, executive director of the health center.
Health centers, which serve more than 20 million people across the country, many of them low income or without insurance, are a crucial piece the law, as they will absorb many of the newly insured. This one received fresh funding under the Affordable Care Act to expand.
The number of uninsured patients visiting community health centers jumped by 21 percent across the country since the recession began, said Amy Simmons, a spokeswoman for the National Association of Community Health Centers.
- 
9:34 A.M. | A Reader's Guide to the Times's Coverage
The Supreme Court is expected to rule sometime after 10 a.m. on Thursday on President Obama's health care law, and we want to give readers an overview of the Times's coverage.
We realize that people will be eager to know what the ruling means as soon as it comes out (and you can read the decision yourself when it is posted on the court's Web site). But we also want to point out that the immediate descriptions of the ruling may not be very meaningful.
For one thing, the ruling could be complicated, as were Monday's immigration ruling and the 2000 Bush v. Gore ruling, and not amenable to instant summarizing. The court could even release one portion of the decision, say, upholding or striking down the law's expansion of Medicaid, before it releases another portion, say, upholding or striking down the so-called individual mandate.
Dozens of Times reporters and editors, in Washington, New York and around the country, are covering the ruling today. At the center of the coverage is Adam Liptak, our Supreme Court reporter (and a lawyer), who will be in court to hear the ruling.
We plan to tell the readers what the ruling means the moment that we feel comfortable with its basic meaning - which could be almost immediately or could take several minutes. We promise not to bombard you with guesswork or unintelligible legal technicalities.
Most observers expect the court first to release its ruling on two other cases, which means the health ruling may come closer to 10:15 or even 10:30. Once the fundamentals of the ruling are clear, Times reporters and editors will be analyzing it in real time, on our live blog dedicated to the ruling and on stories appearing on the home page of nytimes.com. Our colleagues at Room for Debate will be posting analysis from outside experts. Today's TimesCast show will focus on the ruling. On the live blog, we will also be linking to other analysis from the around Web.
Thanks for being with us.
- 
9:13 A.M. | How to Read the Ruling
The SCOTUS Blog has provided a handy guide to the format of the ruling and how to read it.
SCOTUS Blog Guide to the Ruling
- 
9:11 A.M. | Getting Up to Speed: Key Graphics and Multimedia
Analysis of the Arguments - The Supreme Court Health Care Challenges
On March 28, 2012, the Supreme Court concluded the third and final day of arguments challenging the constitutionality of the 2010 health care law. Times reporters offered analysis of the hearings each day, with audio excerpts posted below.
How the Justices Could Rule
The court is considering a series of questions to determine whether the law, or parts of it, will survive.
How the Number of Uninsured May Change
Estimates from the Congressional Budget Office show how health insurance coverage may change for non-elderly Americans in the next decade. The Supreme Court decision and possible action by Congress will determine whether the 2010 federal health care law will continue to go into effect.
- 
9:10 A.M. | Awaiting Ruling on Fairly Simple Questions
The Supreme Court is expected to announce on Thursday morning its decision on the health care overhaul that President Obama signed into law in 2010 - an act of Congress thousands of pages long, containing hundreds of changes costing hundreds of billions of dollars and affecting nearly every American from cradle to grave.
But the nine justices are expected to answer only a few principal questions, stemming from a handful of conflicting lower-court decisions. Although the arguments are complex, the questions are fairly straightforward.
First, and perhaps above all, did Congress overstep its powers when it passed the "individual mandate" requiring virtually all Americans to obtain health insurance or pay a penalty? If a majority finds that it did, the most prominent feature of the law will be overturned.
Second, if the justices strike down the mandate, what other parts of the law are so closely tied to its centerpiece that they must also fall? Both the Obama administration and the law's opponents have argued that two other provisions - requiring companies to sell policies to anyone who applies and prohibiting insurers from charging extra to sick people - should fall, to keep the insurance market functioning.
But not all experts agree with that argument, and the justices could decide to strike down only the mandate - or to strike down the entire statute.
Read more
- 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (92%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PETITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); CHARITIES (77%); STREAMING MEDIA (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); FUNDRAISING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TEXT MESSAGING (67%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (50%) The Caucus

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (87%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1071 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2590 words

HEADLINE: 'Gasland' Filmmaker Takes on Cuomo and 'Dot.FlatEarth'

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A filmmaker deadset on banning gas fracking lays out his concerns. 

 BODY:
Josh Fox, the filmmaker whose "Gasland" documentary powerfully influenced debates about gas extraction from shale deposits, has started a conversation with me related to his new short video, "The Sky is Pink," and my post supporting New York Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's signaled plans for the state's gas resource.
Here's Fox's video, which centers on Cuomo and on documents that Fox asserts open a new front in the fracking wars -- pointing to established problems with long-term well integrity due to failures in the steel or cement used to line and seal the vertical well shaft:
Here's our exchange so far, which has played out in the comment string on my post on Cuomo's choices:
Josh Fox, commenting on my reaction to a Jeff Goodell piece on the video in Rolling Stone:
I find it curious that you would choose to play into the "he said, she said" media debate by posting a comment addressing Jeff Goodell's comments on my film, but not on the film itself. Why not investigate or opine on the troubling science featured in the film that the gas industry itself conducted, which points to huge and unpreventable rates of well leakage? Why not cite some of the actual investigative reporting on which my film is based, which, incidentally, came from The New York Times "Drilling Down" series by Ian Urbina?
The industry documents that show that they know all about their contamination problems are here awaiting your commentary: [documents]
To be clear: you are advocating drilling wells in massive numbers in New York which the industry itself admits will leak into groundwater aquifers. Is a few years of polluting fossil fuel based energy worth contaminating groundwater for centuries? Please respond to that.
And if the New York Department of Environmental Conservation is so confident that the process protects the environment, why not put the first 100 wells in the New York City watershed? Or truck the first 1,000 truckloads of "treated" waste to the reservoir in Central Park? Or perhaps put the first gas refinery and compressor station in Scarsdale or Westchester? Why put it out in an economically depressed area with very little political clout?
Revkin:
I haven't responded on the film yet because I'm doing precisely what you suggest -- examining and reporting out the new assertions. That takes time. Glad to have the link to sources. Kind of hard grabbing the fast-flashed document names by pausing the video.
One odd point for starters. You cast the Southwestern Energy animation of well casing problems as some kind of "gotcha" when they've been showing it on the Web for quite a long while (including at Pace University in a discussion recently). It's creditable, to me, for a company to be pointing out bad practices even as it pursues better ones. You?
Josh Fox:
Rather than focusing on presentation, focus on the bottom line issue. There is overwhelming evidence from within the industry itself that there is a massive problem with well leakage-- it causes methane migration (flaming faucets, rivers, lakes, etc) and there is no known way for the industry to prevent the problem. These problems are part of fracking as a whole--you can't frack a well without cementing it and cement fails at alarming rates.
Southwestern may be trying to get out ahead of this issue, belittling it, making it seem like they are on top of it. But looking at the industry's history and the severe problem with horizontal wells, they are not in a position to guarantee the integrity of the water supply. What you are left with is a tradeoff -- safe water over the long term for polluting energy in the short term. Bad trade.
There are alternative forms of energy which are capable of outlasting and outperforming gas. Last I heard, there is no alternative to water.
Additionally, DEC has no plan for the enormous quantity of wastewater and no plan to forecast health impacts or cumulative impacts of this massive industrialization on the long term economic prosperity of the region.
Hate to give you more homework, but you should look into these issues as well.
Again, I will reference your own paper's brilliant investigative series, w/r/t fracking, wastewater, truck traffic, social costs, etc.
Revkin:
We're getting somewhere here. I'll try to do a fresh post soon drawing on this dialogue.
1) I agree that underlying issues are the key, but -- as a 30-year veteran of science communication -- have to swing back to presentation. This matters as well. If an industry group, or news outlet, used an unconnected video vignette to argue that fracking was all sweet and harmless, would that not be an issue? Overstatement for the sake of getting attention always kicks back -- as has happened on climate many times. Ask the editors of the journal Science about the importance of "sweating the details."
2) I'm glad you raised the issue of tradeoffs. First, while there are clearly problems with well integrity and methane migration, the evidence of large-scale aquifer contamination simply is not there. At the same time, the evidence for large-scale public health costs from continued coal use is there.
3) This line -- "There are alternative forms of energy which are capable of outlasting and outperforming gas" -- exists purely in the "someday in theory" category. You lay out -- for the Northeast, the United States, or the planet -- a real-world energy plan (how many wind turbines or PV panels, how to store that power for when it's needed, etc.) that include a substantial role for natural gas (remember, at the moment it's vital for balancing renewables on a grid) and I'll cross it off my list. There are many kinds of tradeoffs. What do you cook on, by the way? For me, propane (which of course comes from wet gas wells).
As you say, I "hate to give you more homework, but you should look into these issues as well."
I agree that there's a big challenge navigating all of these tradeoffs, particularly when things get local. That's why I see Governor Cuomo's notion of "home rule" working in both directions -- with communities having the right to opt out, but also opt -- as a decent start.
And, yes, there are holes in DEC's rules, for sure, which is why I'm glad Walter Hang, for instance, is out there.
But the country and planet need to keep navigating down the post-coal "heat ladder" and gas -- extracted responsibly and with accountability and transparency -- is an inevitable step along that path.
Josh Fox:
Unfortunately, I fail to see that we are getting anywhere except deeper and deeper into your entrenched position--a stance that refuses to deal with new information.
How very sneaky of you-- trying to shift the dialogue away from the actual question, which is the reporting that the gas industry has known of its contamination for decades and cannot prevent it. You would like to embroil us in the wrong question, by comparing gas to coal and you suggest that I am advocating using coal instead of gas. Of course, this is not my position. Good job! It's gonna work, I will jump down your "he said, she said" coal rabbit hole a few paragraphs down.
But this first: You continue to ignore the last four years of science and reporting on this issue. I don't know why you choose to do so, but it is clear that you are. If the last several years of reporting both here in The Times and at Pro-Publica and many other verifiable sources are not going to open your position, it is clear that I am not either.
But, suffice it to say, ignoring new information and upholding beliefs that have been demonstrated by emerging evidence to be false is a disservice to the idea of "news" and "newspapers." And to your readers. There have been many such people on the planet throughout history who clung to beliefs far beyond the point they were proven to be incorrect. Just ask Galileo. I suggest renaming your blog dot.flatearth.
Your unreferenced statement that there is no evidence of widespread water contamination is unfounded, irresponsible and ignores the thousands of cases across the nation that have been reported. Such a statement is as journalistically dishonest as it is intellectually lazy. Been to Bradford County, Pa.? Or Butler County, Pa? Or Susquehanna County? Or the Gulf of Mexico? Or the coast of Louisiana? Or to the gas fields of Wyoming? Or West Virginia? Or the Barnett Shale in Texas? Cement failure causes gas and chemical migration. The gas industry acknowledges it. The EPA verified it. You should too. Instead, you continue to refuse to address the reporting featured in either the film GASLAND, or THE SKY IS PINK or in your own paper with respect to the very high rates of well leakage, contamination, social costs, greenhouse gas emissions and a host of other issues.
Your qualifiers -- gas extracted responsibly and with transparency -- is simply not possible. To be responsible to what and to whom? Do drillers expect to be fixing leaking and crumbling casing cement for 100 years? 200 years? 300 years? A gas well only has to produce gas for 20 to 30 years, but the cement has to last forever if it is to protect groundwater. If you watch the film and read the documents, you will see that the industry itself says that 6 per cent of cement casings fail immediately upon installation and 50 to 60 percent fail after 30 years.
There is no drilling company on earth that could keep up with that maintenance schedule especially not over the we will need to have clean water.
I have written on this subject here:
http://www.timesunion.com/opinion/article/Fracking-is-hardly-leakproof-3646458.php
And the film, once again, is here:
https://vimeo.com/44367635
If I am to understand your position correctly, you are advocating switching from coal to gas for electricity generation. You are jumping out of the frying pan and into the fire.
As has been shown by both the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the insightful peer-reviewed work of Bob Howarth at Cornell, there is no appreciable benefit in terms of greenhouse gas emissions by switching from coal to gas. In fact, gas is worse in the short term (20 yrs). Methane is many times more potent than CO2 in the atmosphere, and since the fracking process emits huge quantities of methane into the atmosphere, gas is not preferable to coal in the short term or long term.
http://www.news.cornell.edu/stories/April11/GasDrillingDirtier.html
http://researchmatters.noaa.gov/news/Pages/COoilgas.aspx
http://thinkprogress.org/climate/2012/02/08/421588/high-methane-emissions-measured-over-gas-field-offset-climate-benefits-of-natural-gasquot/
As to the public health implications, we go into that in THE SKY IS PINK as well. The Colorado School of Public health found "moderate to high" risk of health problems related to gas drilling pollution in their initial study. Yes, more study is desperately needed now. In fact, last week the Democratically controlled New York State Assembly passed a bill calling for a Health Impact Assessment before any permits were issued. The bill was based on two public hearings and letters from hundreds of doctors and environmental and public health advocates. It was blocked by Senate Republicans on the last day of session. Are citizens now supposed to sit back and just sign off on the DEC's plan because one of our political parties has decided to side with the gas industry over public health?
[]
Adding to the call for study, last week, the American Nurses Association passed a resolution calling for a moratorium on all new fracking permits nationwide. Perhaps you should report on that?
Mr. Revkin, the news is that renewables are here now.
Another myth propagated by gas-hawkers is that renewable energy is far off, some kind of future fantasy. That is also not the case. Renewables are here now and they work extremely well. Germany, a country with less sun than New York, just produced half of its electricity from Solar: [article link]
We should not be building new power plants that burn fossil fuels, period. We need to make the transition now. Here's how we can do it, from Stanford Professor Mark Jacobson's front page article in Scientific American: [article link]
You admire Walter Hang, so do I. Just last week in Albany there was an unprecedented gathering of groups representing hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers united against the DEC's drilling plan. Walter gave a booming, outraged speech in adamant opposition to the drilling plan. Perhaps, if you admire him so much, you should have a public dialogue with him on the subject in these pages? Walter suspects, as I do, that this drilling plan opens up the rest of the state to development and there is nothing that says it won't.
Home rule? Home rule would be a disaster in this case. Drawing out this battle into hundreds of skirmishes across the state, driving people into costly legal battles against an industry that can outspend them.
His legacy will still be as the governor who opened the door. I respect him and I don't want to see him make this mistake.
Again, if you and the DEC are so confident in this process, put the first wells in the NYC watershed. If you are so set in ignoring the science on well leakage, then advocate for that.
DEC would rather risk the Southern tier, where the poorer folks live instead, calling it a compromise. That is disingenuous, morally corrupt. The DEC is deciding that people in those areas are expendable. Like the folks in West Virginia's coal mining areas were expendable. Like the folks of the Gulf Coast were expendable, because they don't have political clout and they don't have the money to play the game. In agreeing with DEC you are saying that they don't have equal protection under the law because of the economic, political and geographic circumstances. These cruel political calculations are not based on science or fact or truth, but on cash and influence.
Unequal protection works both ways. This plan may not even be legal for any part of the state. Even Chesapeake's lobbyist, Tom West, was recently casting public doubt, "I still do have some concerns about the legality of making any part of the state off limits to development, given that the state policy is to promote the development of the resource."
Mr. Revkin, you are in danger of going down a dangerous road, that of the worst kind of apologists for fossil fuels--masquerading as environmentalists while throwing the public health concerns of the New Yorkers who are least politically and economically positioned to defend themselves to the wayside.
Please understand that as a representative of a frontline community that stands to lose everything I have, my home, my relationship to the region, my faith in government and democracy, I implore you to recognize the rack and ruin you are promoting and take a step back. If you would like, honestly, I would be happy to tour you to some drilling areas at the next possible opportunity so you can see for yourself.
Or continue to say that The Sky is Pink. The minute those wells start leaking, it is your legacy. And the Governor's.
There's much to explore related to Fox's assertions about the readiness of renewables, the health studies he cites, the studies he focuses on on climate impacts and the issue of long-term well integrity (which New York State has been overseeing for decades). But I'll give Fox the last word for now. 

        
Cuomo's Wise Move on New York's Gas Resource
        
Beyond Hype, a Closer Look at New York's Choice on Shale Gas
        
Beyond Fracking, Another Use for Marcellus Shale
        
A 'Fracked' Photograph
        
On Children and Digital Depictions of Nature

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (92%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); FILM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (86%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); METHANE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); ANIMATION (73%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); WATER WELL DRILLING (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (67%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (67%); SOLAR ENERGY (67%); WATER QUALITY (64%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (50%) cuomo; documentary; film; fracking; gas; gasland; Geology; Natural Gas; new york; Water; Fox, Josh; Air Pollution; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Carbon Dioxide; Documentary Films and Programs; Drilling and Boring; Environment; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Hydraulic Fracturing; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Methane; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Shale; Solar Energy; Water Pollution; Wells; activism; energy; industry; pollution; resources

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%) Fox, Josh

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1072 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: On the Hill, Relief for Democrats and Repeal Pledges From Republicans

BYLINE: JENNIFER STEINHAUER


HIGHLIGHT: Republicans were quick to dismiss the Supreme Court as "black robes" after the health care ruling, while Congressional Democrats seemed less celebratory than relieved. 

 BODY:
12:04 p.m. | Updated Republicans reacting to the Supreme Court's decision on the health care law Thursday were quick to seize on two themes: that they have the legislative prowess to undo the law themselves, and that the court had revealed that the individual mandate at the center of the law was the tax that Democrats insisted all long it was not.
By conflating these two points, Republicans are presaging both the various avenues of potential repeal - some for undoing taxes and others for repealing the health care provisions - and sending the clear message that the fight is not over.
"The president of the United States himself promised up and down that this bill was not a tax," said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, on the floor of the Senate, less than an hour after the decision was released. "This was one of the Democrats' top selling points - because they knew it would have never passed if they said it was," he said. "The Supreme Court has spoken. This law is a tax. This bill was sold to the American people on a deception."
Mr. McConnell, who on this front is about as invested in a Republican-controlled Senate as any Republican in America, vowed that his party "won't let up whatsoever in our determination to repeal this terrible law and replace it with the kind of reforms that will truly address the problems it was meant to solve."
"We pass plenty of terrible laws around here that the court finds constitutional," Mr. McConnell said. "Constitutionality was never an argument to keep this law in place, and it's certainly not one you'll hear from Republicans in Congress."
Other Republicans, like Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader, were quick to dismiss the Supreme Court justices as "black robes" - language many liberals had used in anticipation of the court ruling against the law - and several immediately vowed to undo the legislation. 
"The only way to save the country from Obamacare's budget-busting government takeover of health care is to completely repeal it," said Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota.
Republicans also used the moment to press their case against President Obama. 
"It's never been more important that we elect a president who understands the marketplace and will make job creation his top priority," said Gov. Bob McDonnell of Virginia, the chairman of the Republican Governors Association, in a statement. "By replacing Barack Obama with Mitt Romney, we will not only stop the federal government's health care takeover, but will also take a giant step towards a full economic recovery."
In the pivot to House and Senate races, Republicans and groups that support them immediately began to associate Democratic candidates with tax increases.
"Joe Donnelly likes to pretend he's not a liberal, but the fact is that Joe Donnelly voted for ObamaCare, which the Supreme Court just recognized as a massive tax increase," said Chris Chocola, the president of the conservative Club for Growth in a statement denouncing Representative Donnelly, Democrat of Indiana, who is running for the United States Senate.
Congressional Democrats seemed less celebratory than relieved, like a patient given a less-grim diagnosis than expected. Several, particularly those in tough re-election races, quickly picked up on the "let's fix up the law together" theme.
"Today's ruling doesn't mean this responsible, constitutional law can't be improved," said Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana. "But it is an important step forward in the fight to fix a broken system and hold big insurance companies accountable to Montana families."
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, took to the Senate floor to praise the court, saying "the rule of law" had been placed "ahead of partisanship." 
He also suggested the law would be tweaked in Congress to address some unpopular elements. "We will do that working together," Mr. Reid said.
But he cautioned against Republicans' insistence on legislative repeal. "Our Supreme Court has spoken," he said. 
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the minority leader, in a statement called the decision "a victory for the American people."
"With this ruling, Americans will benefit from critical patient protections, lower costs for the middle class, more coverage for families and greater accountability for the insurance industry," she said, adding: "In passing health reform, we made history for our nation and progress for the American people. We completed the unfinished business of our society and strengthened the character of our country. We ensured health care would be a right for all, not a privilege for the few. Today, the Supreme Court affirmed our progress and protected that right, securing a future of health and economic security for the middle class and for every American."
The chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, Representative Pete Sessions, Republican of Texas, released a one sentence news release: "Americans still want #FullRepeal."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNORS (74%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); BUDGETS (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); JOB CREATION (61%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%) Bachmann, Michele M; Cantor, Eric; Pelosi, Nancy; Reid, Harry; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Presidential Election of 2012; House of Representatives; Senate; Supreme Court; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives; Senate; Supreme Court

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); ERIC CANTOR (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (78%); MICHELE BACHMANN (78%); HARRY REID (73%); NANCY PELOSI (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Bachmann, Michele M; Cantor, Eric; Pelosi, Nancy; Reid, Harry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1073 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Romney Says He Will 'Repeal Obamacare' if Elected

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR and ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney declared Thursday that he will "act to repeal Obamacare" if he is elected president, saying that he agrees with the dissenting justices in Thursday's Supreme Court ruling. 

 BODY:
12:31 p.m. | Updated Mitt Romney declared Thursday that he would "act to repeal Obamacare" if he is elected president, saying that he agreed with the dissenting justices in the Supreme Court ruling on Thursday.
With the Capitol over his shoulder and standing in front of a podium with a sign that says "Repeal and Replace Obamacare," Mr. Romney said the health of the American economy depended on getting rid of the health care law.
"Our mission is clear: if we want to get rid of Obamacare, we are going to have to replace President Obama," Mr. Romney said. "That is my mission. That is our work. And I'm asking the American people to join me."
Mr. Romney said the court's ruling underscored the choice before American voters, one that he said was between bigger government that potentially takes away health insurance choices or a Republican plan to preserve health care choices.
"We have to make sure that people who want to keep their current insurance will be able to do so," Mr. Romney said in the brief statement. "This is now the time for the American people to make a choice."
Mr. Romney might have been hoping for a different decision today, but politically, his campaign isn't complaining.
"No question that politically it is a huge energizer," said a top campaign aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity to more freely discuss the campaign's thinking. "Politically it is a big positive for Romney campaign."
Mr. Romney's promise to repeal the president's health care plan in his standard stump speech always gets applause, and now, Mr. Romney can tie repealing the plan with getting rid of the president who implemented it.
"If we want to get rid of Obamacare, we're going to have to replace President Obama," Mr. Romney said Thursday afternoon, offering a line that his aides are already echoing. 
Mr. Romney himself may like nuance, which has tripped him up previously, but his campaign prefers one or two simple, straight-line arguments (see: jobs and the economy), and they seem to have found another in the recent ruling: Repeal Obamacare/ Replace President Obama).
Aides to Mr. Romney expect that the court's decision will revitalize their base, creating an intensity and energy similar to the 2010 midterms, when many Republicans ran against the president's health care plan and re-took the House.
Already, they have raised more that $375,000 in campaign donations since the ruling was passed down.
Mr. Romney learned of the decision Thursday morning in his hotel room at the Washington Hilton, where he watched the ruling come down on television. Other top aides - including Russ Schrieffer, a chief strategist; Neil Newhouse, the campaign's pollster; Lanhee Chen, the policy director; and Katie Packer Gage, the deputy campaign manager - were also on hand in Washington for the big day.
The campaign had kept the details of Mr. Romney's announcement a secret until the last minute, having the press gather at the Hilton Thursday morning for a bus ride to a location that remained "TBD" until less than an hour before Mr. Romney made his remarks. Television correspondents broadcasting from in front of the podium where Mr. Romney was set to speak were not allowed to disclose their location.
The campaign also stayed silent on the court's ruling, but for a few Tweets from communications staffers highlighting the amount of money the campaign (in conjunction with Mr. Romney's Victory fund) has raised since the decision came down - a number that topped $300,000 by noon.
Though Mr. Romney had prepared several possible responses for the likely outcomes, which he previewed at campaign events in Virginia earlier this week, many in the campaign were privately surprised that the court had not overturned the mandate portion of the president's health care plan.
Mr. Romney spoke shortly before noon on the rooftop of 101 Constitution, an office building in the shadow of the Capitol that also houses a Charlie Palmer steakhouse. The mood on the roof was quiet and subdued as the press waited for Mr. Romney to arrive, and Mr. Romney himself was equally sedate.
He strode calmly to the podium, decorated with a small "Repeal & Replace Obamacare" podium, and spoke for just over four minutes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (92%); SUPREME COURTS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (76%); CAUCUSES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (68%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Republican Party; Supreme Court; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party; Supreme Court

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1074 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: In a Morning Media Blitz, Murdoch Defends His Newspaper Assets

BYLINE: AMY CHOZICK


HIGHLIGHT: "Dow Jones is a very viable company and The Wall Street Journal is a very viable newspaper," Rupert Murdoch said in a phone interview with The New York Times. 

 BODY:
Rupert Murdoch went on a rare publicity blitz on Thursday to defend News Corporation's decision to split the company's newspapers from its entertainment assets.
In a string of interviews and conference calls, Mr. Murdoch, the company's chairman and chief executive, offered a full-throated defense of the newspaper business in an attempt to silence critics who have said the spinoff reflects a judgment that newspapers have become a liability to the reputation and balance sheets of News Corporation.
"Dow Jones is a very viable company and The Wall Street Journal is a very viable newspaper," Mr. Murdoch said in a phone interview with The New York Times. When asked about his newspapers' employees feeling vulnerable in a newly formed, smaller company, Mr. Murdoch said, "I think in time they'll feel differently."
With its lucrative cable channels like FX and Fox News, the company was able to provide a financial safety net to The Journal and other papers - a situation that would be eliminated in the new publishing company. As for the idea that newspapers rely on those money-making ventures, Mr. Murdoch said those employees "shouldn't feel like they've got a crutch."
Chase Carey, News Corporation's chief operating officer, who was also on the phone, pointed out that CBS fared fine after the spinoff from Viacom, and that it had also been considered "the orphan."
Later Thursday morning, Mr. Murdoch appeared on the Fox Business channel, where he hinted that his company would wind down its investment in Britain, where the impact of the phone-hacking scandal continues to play out. The scandal prompted the company to drop its $12 billion bid for British Sky Broadcasting last summer.
"We've moved on from our thinking in that," Mr. Murdoch said when asked if the company still wanted to acquire the 61 percent share of BSkyB that it did not already own. "That was billions and billions of dollars, and if Britain doesn't want them, we'll find a place to put them here."
He added: "I'm much more bullish in America than I am in Britain." When asked whether that was because of the financial crisis sweeping Europe, Mr. Murdoch said, "It's just the English."
Then, in an interview with CNBC, Mr. Murdoch raised an interesting idea - that he would consider changing the name of The Wall Street Journal to WSJ. "I think the Wall Street Journal, which we may call the WSJ, will be a really great global brand," he said.
Ashley Huston, a Dow Jones spokeswoman declined to comment about the name change.
In each interview, Mr. Murdoch defended the digital future of newspapers and said that the spinoff was "not in reaction" to the phone-hacking scandal.
"We finally reached a consensus and a feeling that there was no point" leaving the company as a combined entity, he said in the phone interview with The Times. 

        
Bloomberg Executive Is Said to Be in Talks to Lead Dow Jones
        
News Corporation's Big Move: Murdoch Informs the Staff
        
Anxious News Corp. Editors Arrive in New York to Discuss Corporate Split
        
News Corp. Makes $2 Billion Deal to Acquire Australian Pay TV Company
        
Klein Returns Full Time to Education Work at News Corp., Leaving Investigative Role

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (91%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (79%); NEWS CORP PHONE HACKING SCANDAL (79%); CONFERENCE CALLS (77%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (76%); WIRETAPPING (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SCANDALS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%) dow jones; News Corporation; rupert murdoch; Murdoch, Rupert; Newspapers; Dow Jones & Co; Dow Jones & Co|DJ|NYSE; Television

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (95%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); VIACOM INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Dow Jones & Co

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (95%); NWS (ASX) (95%); BSY (LSE) (58%); VIA (NASDAQ) (54%) Dow Jones & Co; DJ; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (95%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (95%); CHASE CAREY (57%) Murdoch, Rupert

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1075 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: A Free Checking Account Pioneer Brings It Back

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: TCF Bank, chartered in South Dakota and with branches in eight states, is restoring its "free" checking account. 

 BODY:
Now that regulations have crimped the fees that banks can earn from debit card purchases, "free" checking accounts are a thing of the past - right?
Not necessarily. TCF Bank, an early pioneer of free checking in the 1980s, dropped the product last year, as did many other banks. But on Wednesday, TCF announced it would restore free checking, effective immediately.
William Cooper, the bank's chairman and chief executive, said in a telephone interview that the bank had initially adopted free checking to gain an advantage over larger competitors, many of which eventually adopted similar products. ("Free" checking generally means that the accounts carry no monthly service fees. But banks earn income from them in other ways, including fees charged to retailers for debit card transactions, charges for bounced checks, etc.)
Now, he said, the bank finds itself back in the same situation, with most large banks once again charging monthly service fees, and setting minimum-balance and direct-deposit requirements. TCF, which has always served the "Joe Lunchbox" customer, he said, sees a way to attract checking customers by dropping monthly service fees, given that in a tight economy many consumers can't afford to pay them. "Going back gives us the same competitive advantage," he said. "We're expecting to significantly grow the base of our checking accounts."
Mr. Cooper said a decision the bank made three years ago to move its charter to South Dakota from Minnesota wasn't a factor in the decision to restore free checking. The bank's holding company, the TCF Financial Corporation, remains based in Wayzata, Minn. He described the charter move as purely a legality that did not cause any account attrition. The bank has more than a million checking account customers, which is large for a bank of its size, he said.
TCF has more than 430 branches in eight states and about $12.8 billion in deposits, according to its most recent quarterly filing.
"This is now the best checking account in America," Mr. Cooper said. The account has no monthly fee; no minimum balance, monthly transaction or direct-deposit requirements; and no fees for services like online bill payment. Fees for bounced checks and for using competitors' A.T.M.'s still apply.
Have you been able to find a free checking account?

        
Chase to Drop Overdraft Fees for Purchases of $5 or Less
        
Credit Union Disclosures Could Be Simpler Too, Pew Report Finds
        
Some Bank Overdraft Fees Have Risen, Report Finds
        
Seeking 2% in Interest? Try a High-Yield Checking Account
        
Comparing Checking Account and Prepaid Debit Card Fees

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (92%); DEBIT CARDS (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PREPAID CARDS (73%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); RETAILERS (69%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (50%) Checking Accounts; Banking and Financial Institutions; Checks and Checking Accounts; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); TCF Financial Corporation; Minnesota; TCF Financial Corporation|TCB|NYSE

COMPANY: TCF FINANCIAL CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: TCF Financial Corporation

TICKER: TCB (NYSE) (94%) TCF Financial Corporation; TCB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (94%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Minnesota

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1076 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: The Two Big Questions on Health Care

BYLINE: EZEKIEL J. EMANUEL and THEODORE RUGER


HIGHLIGHT: The remaining mysteries of the Roberts vote and the Medicaid expansion. 

 BODY:
THERE are two great mysteries about the Supreme Court's ruling on the Affordable Care Act that befuddle commentators. First, why was Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. the crucial fifth vote upholding the requirement that individuals buy health insurance? And what will be the impact of declaring unconstitutional the penalty for states that decide not to expand their Medicaid programs to everyone who earns less than 133 percent of the income defined as the poverty level?
Obviously there are other considerations that may have motivated the ruling from Chief Justice Roberts, like not wanting his court to be tarred with another very controversial, politicized decision, but we should not overlook the role his health might have played. 
Chief Justice Roberts has a pre-existing condition but is just 57, and thus not eligible for Medicare. Remember his unexplained seizure soon after he became chief justice? If he did not have employer-provided insurance and had to get his own coverage on the individual market, he would be denied health insurance coverage at almost any price. Maybe the appreciation for his precarious insurance status made Chief Justice Roberts more sensitive to the need for the Affordable Care Act and its requirement that insurance be available to all of those with pre-existing conditions. 
In a 7-to-2 decision, with Justices Elena Kagan and Stephen G. Breyer joining the five conservatives, the court ruled that the new provisions of the act giving coverage to all Americans under 133 percent of the poverty level constituted not an expansion of the program but actually a new Medicaid program. Threatening states that did not adopt this provision with termination of all their matching federal Medicaid money, the court said, constituted "a shift in kind, not merely degree." The court viewed this Medicaid provision as coercion - "withholding of 'existing Medicaid funds' is 'a gun to the head' " - that would force states to acquiesce.
How are states likely to respond? For ideological reasons some states, like Texas or Florida, may decide not to expand their Medicaid programs. But for most states, the Medicaid expansion contained in the act is simply too good a deal to pass up.
Under the act, the federal government will be extremely generous in helping states pay for Medicaid expansion. Between 2014 and 2016 the federal government will pay 100 percent of the Medicaid expansion; in 2017 the federal government will cover 95 percent of the expansion of Medicaid. That will slowly decline to 90 percent by 2020 and remain there. Over all, many states may actually save money by expanding Medicaid. How?
According to a September 2009 report by the Council of Economic Advisers, states currently pay for the uninsured in two ways. First, there is the hidden cost shift. Insurance premiums are higher for state workers (and for others whose employers cover them) because of the uninsured. Second, many states pay for uncompensated care at hospitals and clinics. While states may have to pay 10 percent of the Medicaid expansion in 2020, they will save money from eliminating the cost shift and the uncompensated care.
The Council report estimated that California would pay about $195 million for expanding Medicaid when the federal government paid 90 percent in 2020, but it would save more than $210 million in reduced state employee premiums and more than $2 billion in uncompensated care for a net savings of more than $2 billion. Similarly, Wyoming would save about $1 million, and Montana would save about $9 million. Thus, if they acted rationally, most states should go along with the Medicaid expansion.
If states don't go along with it, there will be some Americans who make less than 100 percent of the federal poverty line ($11,170 for individuals and $23,050 for families of four in 2012) who will not be eligible for subsidies to buy insurance in the exchanges and yet will not be eligible for Medicaid. Exactly how many Americans might be denied access will depend on how many states refuse to expand Medicaid for ideological reasons and how many uninsured residents they have. In 2019, it is forecast that Texas could have more than 2 million people who would go into an expanded Medicaid, bringing the total number of people in the state on Medicaid to 6 million. Thus, if Texas refuses to expand Medicaid, some of those 2 million people will lack health insurance.
Over all, this is a great day for the American health care system. Millions of Americans will have access to affordable care. And it removes significant uncertainty about how the health care system will evolve, allowing everyone - physicians, hospitals, insurers, governments, and others - to focus on improving our health care system.

        
'Embarrass the Future'?
        
A Justice in Chief
        
Sex and the Secularists
        
Newt's Shop of Horrors
        
What We Think About When We Think About the Court

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); MEDICARE (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); CONSERVATISM (65%) health care; justice john roberts; the Supreme Court; Breyer, Stephen G; Kagan, Elena; Roberts, John G Jr; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicaid; Medicare; Supreme Court; United States; Ezekiel J. Emanuel

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (94%); STEPHEN BREYER (78%); ELENA KAGAN (78%) Breyer, Stephen G; Kagan, Elena; Roberts, John G Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1077 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Rolls-Royce Appoints Giles Taylor to Lead Design Department

BYLINE: PHIL PATTON


HIGHLIGHT: The former Jaguar designer succeeds Ian Cameron, who is credited with introducing a fresh design vocabulary to Rolls-Royce. 

 BODY:
Rolls-Royce has named Giles Taylor its new design director, succeeding Ian Cameron, who supervised the rebirth of the company under the BMW Group beginning in 1999.
In April 2011, Mr. Taylor, 44, joined Rolls-Royce from Jaguar, where he worked on models like the current XF and XJ sedans. He studied automotive design in Coventry, England, and at the Royal College of Art in London.
Mr. Taylor visited New York with the XJ in 2009, shortly after its public debut, and spoke to students at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. "You have to have full-sized models," he told them. "You have to stand 20, 30, 50 feet away to understand a car. When you see a car way up an avenue it's either interesting or you turn and walk away."
He urged the students to develop confidence in their work. "If you go to work at a design studio, at some point all of you will have to defend a design, and then it will depend on your conviction and passion for your work."
Mr. Cameron was a designer for BMW when he was made head of the Rolls-Royce design department in 1999. The 2003 Phantom, the first new model from the company under BMW ownership, received mixed reviews; some thought it boxy and clunky. The $300,000 sedan was not an immediate sales success, while a rival's car, the $150,000 Continental GT from Bentley, took off almost immediately. (The 2012 Phantom, known internally as the Series II, may already show Mr. Taylor's hand. It is lighter and softer in appearance, and more horizontally accented.)
But the passage of time proved Mr. Cameron right. Sales increased as customers' attitudes toward the design mellowed. The smaller Ghost offered an even more evolved version of the new Rolls style. Of the 200EX, the concept that presaged the Ghost, Mr. Cameron said with some relief, "Finally, after 100 years, we have a grille that looks like an air intake and not a Greek temple."
Mr. Taylor will report to Adrian van Hooydonk, senior vice president of BMW Group Design. Mr. Cameron is scheduled to remain with the BMW Group until April 2013, as what the company called a brand ambassador.

        
Rolls-Royce Recalls Nearly 600 Ghost Models for Fire Hazard
        
At Frankfurt Motor Show, the Future Toys of the Very Rich
        
Wheelies: The Euro-Zone Inflation Edition
        
BMW Adds 2,800 Vehicles to Recall for Potential Fire Hazard
        
Wheelies: The 'We Are the 63.4 Percent' Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); SEDANS (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); SALES & SELLING (73%); EURO ZONE (50%) Adrian van Hooydonk; bmw; Ghost; Giles Taylor; Jaguar; Jaguar XJ; peugeot; phantom; Rolls Royce; Automobiles; Design; Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Rolls-Royce Motor Cars; Industry News

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (94%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Rolls-Royce Motor Cars

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (94%); BMW (BIT) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (65%) UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (72%); GERMANY (65%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2012



1078 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Angry British Leaders Take Barclays' Chief Executive to Task

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: A day after the British bank agreed to pay $450 million to settle accusations of rates manipulation, officials are calling for Mr. Diamond to provide a full account of what went wrong. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Robert E. Diamond Jr., the chief executive of Barclays, is again in the cross hairs of angry politicians and dissatisfied shareholders.
A day after the British bank agreed to pay $450 million to settle accusations that it tried to manipulate rates to benefit its own bottom line, top officials are calling for Mr. Diamond to provide a full account of what went wrong.
"People have to take responsibility for the actions and show how they're going to be accountable," David Cameron, Britain's prime minister, said at a European Union summit meeting in Brussels. It's very important that it "goes all the way to the top of the organization," he said.
Mr. Diamond's list of critics is already long. As with many global banks after the financial crisis, Barclays and its chief have been prime targets for criticism of Wall Street.
Shareholders balked at the size of Mr. Diamond's pay package earlier this year. In February, the bank had to pay $775 million in back taxes to appease the British government.
Now, Mr. Diamond is apologizing for traders and executives who influenced certain benchmarks during the crisis to bolster profits and make the bank look healthier.
"We need to work every day to rebuild the trust that has been damaged by these actions and others that have come before them," Mr. Diamond said in a letter to British politicians on Thursday. "This kind of conduct has no place in the culture of Barclays."
The bank's settlement, which was struck on Wednesday with American and British authorities, is part of wide-ranging inquiry into how big banks set certain benchmarks, including the London interbank offered rates, or Libor. Those rates are used to determine the costs of $350 trillion in financial products, including credit cards, mortgages and home loans. American and international regulators are investigating several other big banks, including HSBC, JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup.
"This is not a compliance failure. It's an ethical failure," said Jonathan Hayward, a partner at Independent Audit, a corporate governance consultancy in London. "The actions served only one purpose, to manipulate the market."
Mr. Diamond is expected to testify before the British Parliament by the end of July. Officials at the Financial Services Authority, the British regulator, will also most likely appear.
Barclays could face further action. Several traders in both London and New York are still under investigation, and could potentially face either civil or criminal prosecution, according to people with direct knowledge of the matter.
"When ordinary people break the law, they face charges, prosecution and punishment," the leader of Britain's Labour Party, Ed Miliband, said in a speech on Thursday. "We need to know who knew what when, and criminal prosecutions should follow against those who broke the law."
The harsh scrutiny represents a stunning reversal for the chief executive who helped transform Barclays' investment bank from a regional firm to a major player on Wall Street.
The American-born Mr. Diamond joined Barclays during a period of tumult. In 1997, shortly after Mr. Diamond started, Barclays decided to sell most of its investment bank, including its brokerage, equities and advisory groups.
Mr. Diamond - who had held senior roles at Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse First Boston in New York, London and Tokyo - was tapped to run the remaining part of the business. It was a much-diminished investment banking unit that was referred to as the "rump."
Building off the small, fixed-income business, Mr. Diamond slowly started to expand into other areas, like commodities and derivatives trading. As trading activity exploded in the last decade, he more than doubled the unit's pretax profits and its head count.
At the height of the financial crisis, Mr. Diamond, the head of the investment bank, Barclays Capital, moved to take advantage of the weakness. He beefed up its presence in the United States by acquiring the North American operations of Lehman Brothers in 2008, adding large advisory and equities divisions to the firm's portfolio.
Barclays proved to be one of the winners of the crisis. Unlike other British banks, Barclays did not have to turn to the country's government for a bailout during the financial crisis. Instead, the firm tapped sovereign wealth funds from Qatar and Abu Dhabi to recapitalize its balance sheet. The Middle Eastern investors have progressively sold down their stakes in Barclays.
Investment banking has been a particular point of pride. Since the Lehman Brothers deal, Barclays has jumped in the global advisory rankings from ninth to sixth, according to the data provider Thomson Reuters.
Such strength put Mr. Diamond in line to succeed John Varley as chief executive in 2010, a role he was passed over for in 2004.
But almost immediately, Mr. Diamond found himself in the line of fire.
Earlier this year, large shareholders raised concerns about Mr. Diamond's pay package. In 2011, he received $9.8 million, including $4.2 million in deferred shares. At the shareholder meeting in April, he faced a crowd of angry hecklers, some of whom dressed as eagles, reflecting the bank's logo.
To appease investors, Mr. Diamond and other executives agreed to forgo some of their bonuses this year if certain performance goals were not met.
Now Mr. Diamond faces criticism for the investment banking business that he helped build. Regulators said they had found "pervasive" wrongdoing by traders who worked in Barclays Capital, the group Mr. Diamond used to run.
The filings showed that Barclays' treasury officials, which help to set Libor, routinely submitted false rates at the behest of the firm's traders, who profited from the move when buying and selling financial products on a daily basis. Financial institutions are supposed to maintain so-called Chinese walls so that confidential information is not shared between divisions in pursuit of profit.
E-mails between both parties, however, showed Barclays failed to keep its divisions separate. One trader, after receiving a favorable rate from a bank employee, wrote: "I love you." Another trader called a colleague a "superstar" for altering the rate.
"The disclosures from the traders' conversation are quite shocking," said Ian Gordon, a banking analyst at Investec in London.
On Thursday, Mr. Diamond continued to express contrition, calling some of the actions "wholly inappropriate." He also noted that Barclays had taken steps to improve the controls, adding that the bank was in the process of "completing a review of employee conduct for all of those involved."
Mr. Diamond and other executives will also give up their bonuses this year.
But some are pushing for more. In an interview with the BBC, Matthew Oakeshott, a former Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman, called on Mr. Diamond to resign.
Investors, too, remain skeptical. On Thursday, shares in Barclays fell 15.5 percent.

        
Barclays: The Investment Bank Strikes Back
        
Barclays' Diamond Takes a Swipe at Obama Plan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (79%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); AUDITS (70%); ETHICS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%) Barclays; Barclays Capital; Libor; Robert Diamond; Cameron, David; Diamond, Robert E Jr; Miliband, Edward S; Banking and Financial Institutions; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Barclays PLC; Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc; Great Britain; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%) Barclays PLC; Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (90%); ED MILIBAND (79%) Cameron, David; Diamond, Robert E Jr; Miliband, Edward S

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BELGIUM (72%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1079 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Seven Consequences of the Health Care Ruling

BYLINE: JAMES A. MORONE


HIGHLIGHT: The Supreme Court's blockbuster decision on Thursday has consequences that will reverberate for years. 

 BODY:
"I have had some bitter disappointments as president,"Harry S. Truman wrote in his memoirs, "but the one that has troubled me most, in a personal way, has been the failure to defeat the organized opposition to a national compulsory health insurance program." He was just the first in a long line of presidents stymied by health reform. NowBarack Obama has succeeded where his predecessors failed. Or has he?
The Supreme Court's blockbuster decision on Thursday has consequences that will reverberate for years. Here are seven big ones.
The United States does not have national health insurance for a not-so-simple reason: Congress. The people elect presidential candidates who promise the reform. Congress, through the years, has said, no thanks. It is so difficult because it takes 60 votes in the Senate and tight discipline in the House. By climbing so visibly into the fray, the court served notice that it would become an active part of the process. Yes, the Democrats won - this time. But the decision was close, technical and studded with new barriers to Congressional action on profound challenges that remain. More than 15 million Americans are still uninsured, even with the health reform; the cost of drugs, devices and procedures continues to spiral; worsening inequality has exacerbated enormous differences in health outcomes. Future health reforms will take 60 votes in the Senate and 5 on the bench.
 The court was drifting into perilous territory. A polite fiction long justified the idea of nine unelected justices overruling Congress and the states: They merely interpret the law. That fiction had been slipping badly ever since Bush v. Gore in 2000. A recent New York Times survey found that three-quarters of the public believed that politics was a frequent factor in court decisions. Political scientists have lots of studies showing just that. Striking down the signal achievement of this administration on a straight party-line vote would have put the court deeper into dangerous territory, with liberals gradually signing up for the longstanding conservative effort to curb the Supreme Court's powers - perhaps by limiting terms to 15 years, for example. With his exquisitely complicated ruling - siding with the liberals on taxing powers, not on the interstate commerce clause - the chief justice restored the idea that the court is wrestling with the complicated tangle of law - not punching in a partisan vote. In the process, he slipped the health care issue right back to where it belongs: before the voters.
. Very quietly, the Affordable Care Act introduced a revolutionary change: All poor people in America would get Medicaid. The new law would have extended Medicaid to everyone with incomes up to 133 percent of the federal poverty line ($23,050 a year for a family of four). Aren't the poor already covered? That depends on where they live. In New York, most adults up to 150 percent of the poverty line are covered; in Texas, Medicaid reaches only to 26 percent of the poverty line - a family of four is not eligible if they earn, say, $9,000 a year. The court ruled that Congress may not require states to expand Medicaid. States can stick to their old Medicaid programs. Stingy states may choose to stay stingy. That part of the decision flew under the media radar. But it is a significant blow to liberals who had a simple way to grow benefits by expanding programs.
When Truman put national health insurance in play, he did something bizarre. He refused to argue for it. While opponents cried "socialism," Truman remained mum. That silence became a not so proud Democratic legacy. As soon as Mr. Obama proposed the legislation, opponents began repeating "death panels," "taxes" and "government takeover"; the Democrats responded by getting down into the policy weeds of their complicated law. The president's statement on Thursday was a case in point. Down the checklist he went: policy details, moving story, pivot to the economy. When you say health reform, my summer neighbors in New Hampshire all nod their heads and say "death panels." The question for Obama and the Democrats: What do you have that will match that? If they don't come up with something stirring, the reform that survived the court could be lost in the election.
 When the Clinton health reform went down to defeat in 1994, something curious happened. The health care system ran with many of the reforms that the Clintons had recommended. The managed-care revolution sprang from the failed reform. The Obama reform promises even greater changes: new incentives for hospitals to deliver more efficient care, new incentives to nudge physicians into primary care, and powerful new rules to stop insurance companies from cherry-picking the people they cover. The court gave the hospitals, doctors and insurance companies a green light to run with these changes. In many cases, they will. The medical system is going to change regardless of whatMitt Romney might do in his first week in office.
 Republicans have their campaign slogan: Repeal and replace! But history has a funny lesson for them. Every Republican administration in the past 60 years has proposed health care reform. There is no escaping it. What is the next Republican administration's health care policy going to look like? There are plenty of popular provisions in the Affordable Care Act. The party of "hell, no" might be wise to think of ways to remake the law in its own image. Repeal may sound good now, but history is unambiguous. An administration without a health policy will soon be vulnerable to attacks. Cruel! Unfeeling! Out of touch! A quiet Republican conversation about what to cut, what to keep, and what to change will pay big dividends in the future.
 The Supreme Court weakened a major prop of classical liberalism: the interstate commerce clause. When Congress passed the blockbuster Civil Rights Act of 1964, it relied on its interstate commerce powers. Even an Alabama barbecue shack with a local clientele could not discriminate against blacks; after all, it served food that came from out of state. The Supreme Court this week backed way off from that expansive reading of the commerce clause. Mainstream Democrats looking to expand social welfare policies have gotten lazy: they've recycled Republican ideas -Bill Clinton borrowed fromRichard M. Nixon the idea of building on employer-based private insurance to achieve national coverage, and Barack Obama borrowed from Republicans like Senator John Chafee of Rhode Island the idea of mandating individual coverage to broaden the private insurance pool. It's high time for the Democrats to get more creative.

        
How Obama Can Win Ohio Again
        
The Politics of Austerity
        
Things That Really Matter
        
Could Defeat in Court Help Obama Win?
        
Forget the Money, Follow the Sacredness

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); MEDICAID (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEALTH CARE (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (64%) Barack Obama; Democratic Party; Health Care Reform; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Supreme Court; the Affordable Care Act; the Senate; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Presidential Election of 2012; Reform and Reorganization; United States Politics and Government; Senate

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate; Supreme Court

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1080 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Bending Toward Universal Health Care

BYLINE: THEDA SKOCPOL AND LAWRENCE R. JACOBS


HIGHLIGHT: The court ruling ensures the law's survival in the long run, even if partisan battles over particular regulations and expenditures continue for some time. 

 BODY:
IN finding the Affordable Care Act constitutional, a narrow majority on the Supreme Court, led by Chief JusticeJohn G. Roberts Jr., has surprised almost everyone. The decision is a victory for the century-long struggle to ensure basic health coverage for virtually all Americans, and it sets the nation on a path toward more rational, cost-effective ways of delivering care. These will be the eventual outcomes - but months and years of fierce political battles lie ahead.
Although the court upheld the act,President Obama's signature achievement to date, there were important twists. The federal government cannot order all Americans to have or buy health insurance, though it can collect a tax from those who do not have coverage after 2014. The federal government can offer the 50 states money to expand Medicaid coverage to all of the poor and near-poor - but cannot punish states that refuse by fully withdrawing existing Medicaid funds.
The decision shifts the political terrain for both parties. Over the past four years, the Republican Party has given up its traditional commitment to use regulated markets to extend health insurance coverage to all. It was Democrats who passed a law with elements long favored by Republicans - a law that radicalized Tea Party Republicans have now sworn to obliterate.
The ruling does not make President Obama's tough re-election bid any easier. The health care law, as enacted in 2010, required everyone to buy insurance once it was affordable, but its authors avoided talking about Congress's power to tax. Now the Roberts opinion makes it impossible to avoid speaking about a tax penalty. Media and legal analysts will want to keep the debates over the individual mandate going, and economists will ask whether taxes will need to be raised to compel recalcitrant holdouts to buy coverage after 2014. Will Mr. Obama be trapped in an endless mandate-discussion loop and forced to expend even more political capital on the one really unpopular part of health reform?
Not necessarily. Mr. Obama can now claim the mantle of "constitutionality" for his health care law - and start talking about the parts that are popular with 60 to 80 percent of Americans. Democrats, indeed all supporters of health reform, can tag Republicans with wanting to repeal or block those popular features like the insurance rules that protect people from being denied coverage for pre-existing conditions; the new benefits for young adults and older people on Medicare; the promised extension of affordable coverage to more than 30 million more low-income and lower-middle-income families; and tax credits for small businesses.
For as long as political scientists have measured public opinion, we have known that Americans respond to abstract questions by opposing "big government" but evaluate particular government benefits and actions very differently. As long as opponents of health reform could ask "Is it constitutional?" the argument was on their terrain. Now the debate will swerve back toward the popular core of the act, if the White House and Congressional Democrats are savvy in how they talk about existing and future benefits. (Reform supporters can also truthfully point out that only 2 out of every 100 people will be affected by the mandate without enjoying subsidies to help them buy affordable coverage.)
Mitt Romney and his fellow Republican refuseniks are in a new bind. They cannot wield the club of nonconstitutionality anymore. And in the debates, how is Mr. Romney going to bash Mr. Obama for extending to all Americans the very same insurance regulations and affordable health coverage that Mr. Romney enacted as governor for the people of Massachusetts - who like the results very much? We predict that Mr. Obama will eat Mr. Romney's lunch.
Of course, it's possible that the European economic crisis will send the world economy into another recession; that Mr. Romney and the Republicans will sweep the presidency and both houses of Congress; and that the Republicans will gut financing for the act. Using simple-majority budget rules, they could slash Medicaid and trim or delay subsidies to help low-income families buy private insurance. But they would still not have the 60 votes they'd need in the Senate to actually repeal the act - and the Supreme Court has now left intact the new rules for insurance companies and state-level exchanges prominently included in the law.
Moreover, the Republicans would create a political mess for themselves if they tried to "defund Obamacare," as many conservative lawmakers have vowed. Insurers would still have to issue policies to all comers, sick or healthy - but they would not get millions of new paid customers using credits and subsidies to buy their products. The states, including those with Republican governors, would be left with millions of citizens needing health care, but much reduced funding to help them. Many insurance companies and health care providers, not to mention health care reformers and Democrats, would fight to restore financing.
The same kind of dynamics would play out for states that choose to opt out of the Medicaid expansion in the act. (The Supreme Court ruled on Thursday that states may do so without losing all of their federal Medicaid financing.) The law provides for 90 percent federal subsidies for expanded Medicaid coverage, and states will find it hard to turn down this offer. As more and more states move toward universal coverage and well-functioning insurance exchanges, states that opt out will have trouble attracting businesses and health care professionals and lose out to other states in economic development.
In short, the historic court ruling ensures the law's survival in the long run, even if partisan battles over particular regulations and expenditures continue for some time. The arc of history now bends toward health care for all - and greater efficiency in the system as a whole. Mr. Obama and the Democrats may have to talk about health care more than they had planned going into November. But in the months and years ahead, the political challenges for Mr. Romney and the Republicans are even greater.

        
Seven Consequences of the Health Care Ruling
        
Could Defeat in Court Help Obama Win?
        
Will Time Heal Health Care Wounds?
        
The Liberal Embrace of Judicial Restraint
        
Our Imbecilic Constitution

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); MEDICAID (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); VERDICTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); MEDICARE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); TAX RELIEF (74%); FAMILY (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (67%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%) Health Care Reform; Supreme Court; the Affordable Care Act; universal health care; Obama, Barack; Roberts, John G Jr; Romney, Mitt; Decisions and Verdicts; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Presidential Election of 2012; Reform and Reorganization; Tea Party Movement; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; House of Representatives; Republican Party; Senate; Supreme Court

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Obama, Barack; Roberts, John G Jr; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1081 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Uncertainty Over States And Medicaid Expansion

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court said on Thursday that a huge expansion of Medicaid envisioned in the 2010 health care law was an option, not a mandate, for states. Experts disagreed on whether states would take the option, one of the most important questions created by the court's decision.
Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and a former governor, said: ''Many states, maybe most, will decide that they simply cannot afford to choose to expand Medicaid. If I were governor of Tennessee, I would not expand Medicaid as the program is currently run.'' 
Matt D. Salo, executive director of the National Association of Medicaid Directors, representing state officials, said his initial sense was that many states would expand the program, though he said the expansion ''is now technically optional.''
And Sara Rosenbaum, a professor of health law and policy at George Washington University, predicted that ''only a small number of states'' would pass up the opportunity to expand Medicaid, given the generous terms of the deal authorized by Congress.
The Medicaid expansion is a central part of the law, accounting for roughly half of all the uninsured people expected to gain coverage, according to the Congressional Budget Office. It estimates that 17 million uninsured people will gain coverage through Medicaid, at a cost to the federal government of $930 billion from 2014 to 2022.
While upholding the expansion of Medicaid, the Supreme Court limited the power of the federal government to secure compliance by penalizing states that refuse to go along.
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said the federal government could not compel states to comply by cutting off all the federal money they receive for existing Medicaid programs. The threatened loss of so much federal money -- more than 10 percent of state budgets -- ''is economic dragooning that leaves the states with no real option but to acquiesce in the Medicaid expansion,'' the chief justice said. ''A state could hardly anticipate that Congress's reservation of the right to 'alter' or 'amend' the Medicaid program included the power to transform it so dramatically.''
The chief justice said Congress had put ''a gun to the head'' of states by requiring them to expand Medicaid or risk the loss of all federal Medicaid money. ''States,'' he said, ''must have a genuine choice.''
Senior administration officials said Thursday that they were confident states would expand Medicaid when it was offered to them as an option. However, Republican governors like Mitch Daniels in Indiana and Bob McDonnell in Virginia refused to make commitments.
Mr. Daniels said the ''Medicaid expansion would put one in four Hoosiers -- approximately 500,000 new enrollees -- in Medicaid at a cost of approximately $2 billion'' to the state over 10 years. Officials in other states, like Georgia and Nevada, said they had not decided what to do.
Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and a principal author of the new law, said the federal government was offering states ''a big juicy carrot'' as an incentive to expand Medicaid. But he said he was unsure whether his own state would go along.
Normally, the federal government and the states share Medicaid costs, with the federal government paying an average of 57 percent of the total.
Under the new law, the federal government will pay the full cost of covering those newly eligible for Medicaid for three years, from 2014 to 2016. The federal share will then gradually decline; it will be 90 percent, starting in 2020.
But many state officials worry that Congress will reduce the federal share and shift more costs to the states as it seeks ways to reduce the federal budget deficit.
It is a common misconception that Medicaid covers all poor people. In fact, many low-income people, including millions of childless adults and parents, cannot obtain coverage.
Medicaid eligibility rules are notoriously complicated. To qualify, a person must fit into one of several dozen categories. The new law will simplify eligibility, sweeping away many of those categories in favor of a single standard: People under the age of 65 would generally qualify for Medicaid if their income was less than or equal to 133 percent of the federal poverty level (up to $25,390 for a family of three).
If a state chooses not to expand Medicaid, it may be in a peculiar position. People with incomes from 133 percent to 400 percent of the poverty level could obtain federal subsidies to buy private insurance, through online markets known as insurance exchanges, but many people with incomes below that level could not obtain assistance.
Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia and a champion of Medicaid, said he was deeply concerned that the Supreme Court had ''seriously undermined'' health care options for low-income people by giving states a choice.
Chief Justice Roberts said Congress could offer money to states to expand Medicaid and could attach conditions to such grants. But he said, ''what Congress is not free to do is to penalize states that choose not to participate in that new program by taking away their existing Medicaid funding.''
The federal government has long asserted that it could cut off all Medicaid money to a state that flouted requirements for the program. It has never used this sledgehammer, but the existence of the power has often induced states to comply.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Tom Bisett, a pediatrician in Manchester, N.H., said he supported the Supreme Court's decision on the health care law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN MCGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Possible Effects on Costs and Coverage: Under the new law, the federal government would bear most of the cost of expanding Medicaid. Below, each state's share of Medicaid costs for those currently and potentially eligible, and how its percentage of residents covered could be affected by participating in the expansion. (Sources: Urban Institute
 Kaiser Family Foundation) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); MEDICAID (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); BUDGETS (87%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (59%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (74%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1082 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 2502 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Jazz
Full reviews of recent jazz performances: nytimes.com/jazz.
- Ralph Alessi Quartet (Friday and Saturday) As on his fine recent album, ''Cognitive Dissonance'' (Cam Jazz), the trumpeter Ralph Alessi leads an exacting, pugnacious postbop group featuring several excellent rhythm partners, each a bandleader in his own right: the pianist Jason Moran, the bassist Drew Gress and the drummer Nasheet Waits. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; $20 cover, $10 for members. (Nate Chinen)
- Kenny Barron Quintet (Tuesday through July 8) Kenny Barron is the leading practitioner of an elegant, economical and sure-footed piano style that thrives in any mainstream setting. For this engagement he has his trustworthy rhythm team -- the bassist Kiyoshi Kitagawa and the drummer Johnathan Blake -- and a responsive front line featuring the tenor saxophonist Dayna Stephens and the trumpeter Brandon Lee. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $25, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen) 
Marc Cary Focus Trio (Monday) Marc Cary approaches the piano trio tradition from a predominantly rhythmic standpoint, but with ample harmonic sophistication. His Focus Trio, as documented on several albums released by the Motema label, features David Ewell on bass and Sameer Gupta on drums and tabla. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592 bluenote.net; $15 cover at tables, $10 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
Cyrus Chestnut Trio with James Carter (through Sunday) Led by the industrious pianist Cyrus Chestnut, with the bassist Dezron Douglas and the drummer Neal Smith, this group draws on gospel harmony with a hard-bop tilt. For an engagement tied to the Jazz Standard's 10th anniversary celebration, the ensemble adds Mr. Carter, a saxophonist of gargantuan energies and garrulous charisma. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 p.m. set on Friday and Saturday, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $30. (Chinen)
Dreaming in Blue: Miles Davis Festival (Friday and Saturday) To conclude its monthlong tribute to Miles Davis, Smoke has enlisted Tom Harrell, a sharp and lyrical postbop trumpeter. It seems likely that in addition to a Davis-related repertory, Mr. Harrell will include some material from his recent album, ''Number Five'' (High Note); at the very least, he'll be leading the same excellent band, featuring the tenor saxophonist Wayne Escoffery, the pianist Danny Grissett, the bassist Ugonna Okegwo and the drummer Johnathan Blake. At 8, 10 and 11:30 p.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; $35 cover, with a varying minimum. (Chinen)
Kermit Driscoll Quartet (Saturday) The bassist Kermit Driscoll recently released his overdue debut as a leader: ''Reveille'' (Nineteen-Eight), with his longtime colleague Bill Frisell on guitar and a smart younger talent, Kris Davis, on piano. Standing in for Mr. Frisell here is the guitarist Ben Monder, and joining the conversation is the drummer Tom Rainey. At 9 and 10:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $15 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Jacob Fred Jazz Odyssey (Friday) This shrewdly inclusive outfit -- part jam band, part jazz group and increasingly set apart by Chris Combs's playing on lap steel guitar -- recently released ''The Race Riot Suite'' (Kinnara/Royal Potato Family), a laudably ambitious effort to address a notorious series of events in the band's hometown, Tulsa, Okla., in 1921. The album's vibrant eclecticism should come off well in this late-night set, part of the Blue Note Jazz Festival. At 12:30 a.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592 bluenote.net; $15 cover, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
Mike Gamble / Beyondo / Tony Barba's Facetime / Superhuman Happiness (Sunday) Three of the four sets here are album-release celebrations, starting with Mr. Gamble, a guitarist whose hypnotic solo album, ''Loomer,'' is just out on the Engine label. Beyondo, a k a the vocalist, trumpeter and all-around instigator Eric Biondo, will draw from ''Siren Science,'' his new self-release; Mr. Barba, a tenor saxophonist, is promoting ''Facetime,'' an adrenalized jazz-rock outing. Rounding out the bill is Superhuman Happiness, a band that includes Mr. Biondo, the guitarist Ryan Ferreira and others. At the Rock Shop, 249 Fourth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-5740, therockshopny.com; $10. (Chinen)
Tim Hagans Quartet (Sunday) Tim Hagans is a firecracker of a trumpeter, drawn to quick and surprising actions. As on ''The Moon Is Waiting,'' his most recent Palmetto release, he appears with a band featuring Vic Juris on guitar and Jukkis Uotila on drums. (On bass is Jay Anderson, in for Rufus Reid.) At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Gilad Hekselman Trio (Thursday) A smart guitarist awash in contemporary harmony and multiple strains of groove, Gilad Hekselman put out one of last year's better jazz albums, ''Hearts Wide Open'' (Le Chant du Monde). He'll probably draw partly from it here, though he has enlisted different personnel: Matt Brewer on bass and Obed Calvaire on drums. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Bar Next Door, 129 Macdougal Street, near West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 529-5945, lalanternacaffe.com; $12 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
- Fred Hersch-Julian Lage Duo (Friday and Saturday) Mr. Hersch, a precise and super-articulate pianist, has made a subspecialty of duo performance, and he'll have a natural conversational partner in Mr. Lage, a young guitarist with a fluent, fastidious style. This weekend run comes on the cusp of their recording sessions for a forthcoming album; consider it a sneak preview. At 8 and 10 p.m., Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; $25 cover, with a $15 minimum. (Chinen)
Jon Irabagon Trio (Tuesday) A saxophonist of frisky temperament and formidable technique, Jon Irabagon works here in his version of an organ trio, with Gary Versace on keyboards and E.J. Strickland on drums. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., Bar Next Door, 129 Macdougal Street, near West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 529-5945, lalanternacaffe.com; $12 cover, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
Carmen Lundy (Thursday through July 8) Ms. Lundy, a soulful and assertive singer, earned some indirect accolades this year: she was one of the featured guests on Terri Lyne Carrington's ''Mosaic Project'' (Concord), which won a Grammy for best jazz vocal album. Here she draws from her own recent album, ''Changes'' (Afrasia), with Anthony Wonsey on piano, Jamison Ross on drums and her brother, Curtis Lundy, on bass. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $25 cover at tables, $15 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
Bill O'Connell and the Latin Jazz All-Stars (Tuesday through July 7) Mr. O'Connell, a pianist and composer-arranger, began his professional career in Latin jazz some 35 years ago, and he has never abandoned the calling. His partners in this aptly named band are the saxophonist Steve Slagle, the trombonist Luis Bonilla, the bassist Ruben Rodriguez, the conga player Richie Flores and the drummer Adam Cruz. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 or $40 cover, depending on seating, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Out of Your Head Brooklyn (Sunday) This biweekly series, an offshoot of a similar effort in Baltimore, assembles crews of young musicians for first-time spontaneous interplay. The first set, at 9:30 p.m., will include the saxophonists Nathaniel Morgan and Anna Webber, the keyboardists Jessie Stacken and Landon Knoblock, and the drummer Flin van Hemmen. The second set, at 11 p.m., will feature the guitarist Dustin Carlson, the bassist Will McEvoy and the drummer Booker Stardrum. At Freddy's Bar, 627 Fifth Avenue, South Slope, (718) 768-0131, freddysbar.com, outofyourhead.org; free. (Chinen)
Dion Parson and the 21st Century Band (through Sunday) Mr. Parson, a drummer, formed the 21st Century Band not only as a nod to our millennium but also as a showcase for the small diaspora of jazz musicians originally from the Virgin Islands. For this engagement the lineup will feature Ron Blake on tenor saxophone, Carlton Holmes on piano, Reuben Rogers on bass, Victor Provost on steel pan and Alioune Faye on percussion; also aboard, though he doesn't strictly fit the criterion, is the trumpeter Marcus Printup, born in Conyers, Ga. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set on Friday and Saturday, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; $30 and $40 cover, $15 select sets for students, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)
John Raymond Project (Monday) The trumpeter John Raymond's self-released recent debut, ''Strength & Song,'' aligns him with some of the newer currents in small-group post-bop. He works here with one of the pianists on the album, Javier Santiago, along with the guitarist Mike Moreno, the bassist Aidan Carroll and the drummer Kenneth Salters. At 10 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $10 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
- Marc Ribot Trio (through Sunday) Marc Ribot, whose persuasively prickly guitar playing has long been a protean feature of the downtown scene, leads the trio previously at the core of Spiritual Unity, his tribute to the free-jazz saxophonist Albert Ayler. The bassist is Henry Grimes, a survivor of the Ayler-era avant-garde; the drummer is Chad Taylor, who also works in the realm of experimental rock. It's not a group one expects to see at the Village Vanguard, despite Ayler's history there, so consider this a momentous incursion. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; $25, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)
- Dr. Lonnie Smith's 70th Birthday Celebration (Tuesday, Thursday through July 8) To celebrate his 70th birthday, which falls on the first night of this engagement, the Hammond B-3 organist Dr. Lonnie Smith leads two separate bands, each a testament to his capacity for growly yet celestial soul. On Tuesday and Thursday he leads a trio with the guitarist Jonathan Kreisberg and the drummer Allison Miller, along with special guests. From next Friday on he leads his ''In the Beginning'' octet, named after an atmospheric track of his from the 1960s. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; $25 cover, $30 next Friday and Saturday. (Chinen)
Sean Smith Trio (Tuesday) A capable and adaptable bassist, Sean Smith spotlights his own compositions on ''Trust'' (Smithereen), a recent album featuring the same rhythm partners found here, John Hart on guitar and Russell Meissner on drums. From 7 to 9 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; no cover, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)
- Spectrum Road (Friday) On its new self-titled Palmetto debut, this jazz-rock supergroup -- Jack Bruce on bass, Vernon Reid on guitar, John Medeski on organ and Mellotron and Cindy Blackman on drums -- brings combustible intensity to the music of the Tony Williams Lifetime, its north star and repertory muse. The group has more than a passing claim to its chosen repertory: Mr. Bruce, best known as a member of Cream, recorded with the Tony Williams Lifetime in the early 1970s, and Ms. Blackman is Williams's purest disciple on drums. This stand is part of the Blue Note Jazz Festival. At 8 p.m., B.B. King Blues Club & Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (800) 745-3000, bbkingblues.com; $50. (Chinen)
Jesse Stacken Trio (Friday) The pianist Jesse Stacken applies an obsessive conceptual rigor to his new album, ''Bagatelles for Trio'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), which negotiates a balance between classical form and jazz improvisation, in ways that aren't obvious or forced. His colleagues on the album, and in this concert, are the bassist Eivind Opsvik and the drummer Jeff Davis; they have constituted a working unit for much of the last decade, and it shows. At 8 p.m., Tenri Cultural Institute, 43A West 13th Street, Manhattan, (212) 645-2800, tenri.org; $15 in advance, $20 at the door. (Chinen)
Charlie Watts and the A, B, C & D of Boogie Woogie (Friday through Monday) Mr. Watts, the drummer with the Rolling Stones, has long been a jazz enthusiast, and with this band -- named after the first names of its members, the pianists Axel Zwingenberger and Ben Waters, Mr. Watts and the bassist Dave Green -- he offers an affectionately bustling take on boogie-woogie. This engagement is timed to celebrate the release of the band's new album, ''Live in Paris'' (Eagle Records). At 8 and 10 p.m., Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; $65 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
- Cassandra Wilson (through Sunday) A jazz singer by training and temperament, Ms. Wilson takes obvious pleasure in a genre-blind repertory, as she once again demonstrates on her new album, ''Another Country'' (eOne). Her band includes musicians keyed to her frequency, including Brandon Ross and Marvin Sewell on guitars, Gregoire Maret on harmonica and Brad Jones on bass. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; $55 at tables, $35 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)
World Time Zone (Thursday) A new entity at first blush, this trio actually comes out of a longstanding relationship between the saxophonist Michael Blake and the bassist Ben Allison. (Its drummer is Rudy Royston, who works regularly in Mr. Allison's bands.) Expect to hear a preview of ''Union Square,'' the group's forthcoming album on A-Beat Records. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; $10 cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)
Yellowjackets (Friday and Saturday) This jazz-funk pace car is celebrating its 30th year in business, which means it has weathered many cycles of taste and technology, managing never to struggle. Along with the band's founders and de facto leaders, the keyboardist Russell Ferrante and the saxophonist Bob Mintzer, its current lineup features the drummer William Kennedy, back in the fold after more than a decade away, and the bassist Felix Pastorius, filling in while Jimmy Haslip is on hiatus. At 8:30 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; $30 and $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DR. LONNIE SMITH'S 70TH BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION: (Tuesday and Thursday, through July 8) To celebrate his 70th birthday, which falls on the first night of this engagement, the Hammond B-3 organist Dr. Lonnie Smith, right, leads two separate bands, each a testament to his capacity for growly yet celestial soul. On Tuesday and Thursday he leads a trio with the guitarist Jonathan Kreisberg and the drummer Allison Miller, along with special guests. Starting next Friday he will lead his ''In the Beginning'' octet, named after an atmospheric track of his from the 1960s. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net
 $25 cover, $30 next Friday and Saturday. (Nate Chinen) (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); JAZZ & BLUES (91%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FESTIVALS (78%); RECORD RELEASES (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1083 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Western Colorado Struggles as Energy Jobs Fade

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
MEEKER, Colo. -- The news of a nationwide energy boom is almost too much for people in this town built atop a sea of oil shale and natural gas, where rusting tanks line the highways and ExxonMobil helped to finance the 4-H club's new community center.
Elsewhere -- seemingly everywhere else but here, locals say -- an oil and gas stampede is transforming towns from the green hills of western Pennsylvania to the plains of North Dakota and eastern Colorado, bringing a flood of money, jobs and attendant environmental concerns. 
But here, in a region rich in natural resources, where oil and gas jobs form the bedrock of the local economy, the boom has dried up. Energy jobs have flowed to Wyoming, Texas and Pennsylvania. Main Street businesses are struggling, and big new schools built to accommodate a surge of students from the last energy rush are now watching their enrollments dwindle.
''We're sitting here dead,'' said Shawn Bolton, a Republican county commissioner who runs a construction business serving oil and gas companies. Four years ago, he had 125 employees, most of them working here on the Western Slope of Colorado. Now, Mr. Bolton said, all but a handful of his 70 remaining employees are working out of state.
Accidents of geology and swings of the market lie at the root of their woes. Crude oil is less common here, but natural gas is abundant, locked deep in the sandstone. But while oil prices have stayed high even as the American economy stumbles along, natural gas prices are sagging near all-time lows, largely because of reduced demand and a surge in supplies unlocked by the spread of hydraulic fracturing techniques.
And so, energy producers have pulled out of deep and remote gas fields here across the Piceance Basin, which covers an area larger than Connecticut. Officials said that four years ago, there were about 115 drilling rigs boring into the sandstone and shale formations around northwestern Colorado. Now, there are about 16.
Many residents and local officials blame the government for driving them off. They say overlapping layers of regulation and fees have thrown up excessive and profit-killing roadblocks to drilling on public lands, which make up as much as three-quarters of all terrain in some counties here.
Aside from a few liberal ski towns and organic-farming communities, Colorado's western fringe is largely Republican, as red as the iron-rich plateaus skirting the horizon. In their dissatisfaction with the state of affairs, residents and officials offered ground-level echoes of the Republican attack against President Obama's energy policies. They said the government was stifling domestic production, and they supported efforts to streamline federal permitting to drill on public lands.
''It's a challenging job to begin with,'' said David Cesark, a vice president of Mesa Energy Partners, a small drilling company in Grand Junction that has four active wells in western Colorado. ''But the feds are making it more difficult. It's like a pack of wild dogs that are constantly following you and nipping away at you.''
There is an economic whiplash to it all -- a vision of a boom-and-bust cycle that may offer a glimpse of the future for other corners of the country where energy exploration is a boost to land values and local government coffers.
In 2008, officials said, rental vacancy rates were less than 1 percent in Grand Junction, the largest city in western Colorado, and space was so tight that energy workers were living in hotels, squeezing out tourists who would come for rafting and biking. Restaurants desperate for workers offered signing bonuses of $3,000. The surrounding county's unemployment rate was 3 percent. Today, it stands at 9.1 percent, compared with 7.8 percent statewide. Home foreclosures, falling across Colorado, are rising here.
But the region is more resilient than it was during a devastating downturn in 1982, set into motion when Exxon announced it was closing down an oil-shale project near Parachute, Colo., leaving thousands of people from oil crews and support companies out of work. About 24,000 people abandoned two of the hardest-hit counties over the next two years, according to a history by the Center of the American West, creating a string of modern-day ghost towns.
That calamity has not happened this time. Drilling has continued even during the downturn, and a new pipeline bound for the Pacific Northwest was completed last year. Officials say the regional economy is less reliant on oil and gas, and is bolstered by growing tourism as well as aviation, health care and green energy.
For all its energy problems, Rio Blanco County -- which encompasses Meeker -- has only a 6 percent unemployment rate. But that is sharply higher than the 2.8 percent jobless rate during the 2008 presidential elections, and Mr. Bolton, the county commissioner, said an exodus of workers and families made the economy look healthier on paper than it really was.
With workers coming and going so fluidly, it is difficult to say precisely how the area's population has changed in the past few years. But the Meeker School District reported that its enrollment fell by 8.5 percent from 2009 to 2011. And in the quiet streets of downtown Meeker, people said the town feels hollow.
''The world fell off the edge,'' said Wendy Gutierrez, who runs a gift shop on Main Street.
Ms. Gutierrez said that her receipts had dropped by 35 percent over the past three years -- about $50,000 -- and that she had been doing anything possible to bring in customers. A coffee shop in the back. Knitting classes. Dry cleaning. A tanning bed, even. Her staff has fallen to 3 from 11. ''It's not coming back,'' she said.
''It all died,'' said D. J. Ridgeway, 30, the scion of a family of Colorado roughneckers who moved their oil-support business to Meeker from Wyoming in 2005. At its peak, the company had 20 employees, he said.
They hoped the region would snap back after energy prices rebounded following their steep decline in late 2008, but the recovery never came.
His brothers and father and most of their equipment have migrated to Pennsylvania while Mr. Ridgeway spends his workdays in a nearly vacant warehouse and tries to scrape together a bit of business finding generators and industrial supplies for drilling rigs.
''I'm the only one left,'' Mr. Ridgeway said. He has stayed in town for the sake of his three school-age children, but said it was hard to justify his job anymore. ''I love Meeker, but it's getting hard to be here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A gas well in the foreground and other equipment along a county road near Meeker, Colo. In a region rich in natural resources, the boom is over.
 Wendy Gutierrez, top left, runs a gift shop in Meeker. D. J. Ridgeway works at the family business, R&T Oilfield Services. Rebecca Gilbert is behind the counter at Meeker Drug. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); COUNTIES (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (72%); SKIING (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1084 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Economy Is Growing Too Slowly to Lift Job Market

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The American economy appears to be growing too slowly to pull the job market out of a slump, according to data that suggests June will be another weak month for hiring. 
Applications for unemployment benefits in the latest week stayed above a level generally considered too high to lower the unemployment rate. And the annual growth rate for the January-to-March quarter was unchanged at a tepid 1.9 percent.
The two government reports released Thursday added to the picture of an economy that is faltering for the third consecutive year after a promising start. Job growth has tumbled, consumers were less confident and Europe's financial crisis damped demand for American exports.
Most economists do not see growth accelerating much from the first-quarter pace, although some are hopeful that lower gasoline prices could help lift consumer spending over the summer.
Growth of about 1.9 percent typically generates approximately 90,000 jobs a month. Economists consider that number of new jobs too weak to lower the unemployment rate, which was 8.2 percent last month.
The Federal Reserve last week downgraded its outlook for 2012 growth. The Fed now predicts the economy will grow 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent this year -- a half a percentage point lower than its forecast in April. And it does not see the unemployment rate falling much lower this year.
Weekly applications fell last week to a seasonally adjusted 386,000, the Labor Department said. But they have climbed nearly 5 percent in the last two months.
When applications are above 375,000, it generally means that hiring is not strong enough to rapidly lower the unemployment rate.
Economists are predicting 100,000 jobs were added in June and no change in the unemployment rate, according to a survey by FactSet. The government will issue the June employment report on July 6.
''Jobless claims are still too high and show that employment growth is slowing and no progress is being made,'' said Jennifer Lee, an economist at BMO Capital Markets.
Employers added an average of only 73,000 jobs per month in April and May after averaging 226,000 a month in the first three months of the year.
The Commerce Department's report on the first quarter's economic growth showed that corporate profits fell, the first quarterly decline since the final three months of 2008.
American corporations earned less profit overseas, the report said. That is likely a result of Europe's economic difficulties and slowing growth in countries like China and India. And it could discourage American employers from adding some jobs in the second half of the year.
''Corporate profits are likely to remain under pressure, a development that is unlikely to help the employment outlook,'' said Jeremy Lawson, an economist at BNP Paribas.
The number of people continuing to receive benefits, meanwhile, rose to 5.9 million in the week ended June 9, the latest data available. That's about 70,000 more than the previous week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EURO CRISIS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (53%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (52%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (52%); BNP (BIT) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1085 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Cash, Congress Finds Some in a Corporate Pension Rule Tweak

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
Lawmakers looking for money to finance low-cost student loans and fix aging highways have found about $20 billion in an unlikely place: company pension funds.
Pension funds are not exactly brimming over with extra money. In 2006, Congress was concerned enough about bolstering them to pass legislation closing loopholes and making companies set money aside more quickly.
But the highway bill that Congress is rushing to complete by Friday contains a measure that would let companies slow their pension contributions again. Because the contributions are tax-deductible, permitting smaller contributions would mean that companies take fewer tax deductions -- and as a result, create more federal revenue. 
The provision is expected to increase corporate income tax receipts by $9.4 billion over the next 10 years, according to calculations issued Thursday by the Joint Committee on Taxation. The effect is most powerful in the first years, then winds down, a Congressional staff member who worked on the measure said, to keep from giving companies funding relief in perpetuity.
Another provision of the bill would raise the annual premiums that companies pay to the federal program that takes over failing pension plans when companies go bankrupt. Over the next 10 years, that will let lawmakers count another $9.5 billion toward the cost of highway improvements and low-cost student loans. Although the premiums are in fact supposed to finance the operations of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the Congressional Budget Office counts them as general revenue for budgeting purposes.
''It's really a stealth measure,'' said Jeremy Gold, an actuary and economist who has called attention to the gaps between the numbers that actuaries work with and the true economic cost of pension benefits. He said the bill could eliminate special safety features introduced in 2006 to keep the weakest pension funds from running through their money too quickly. But Congressional staff aides said there was a growing consensus that the 2006 rules were too harsh and needed to be softened.
The measure would allow companies to calculate their pension contributions using a modified average of the interest rates that have prevailed over the last 25 years. The current statutory practice is to average interest rates over just two years. This seemingly small and technical change has a powerful effect on pension calculations, and, by extension, on tax revenue.
A 25-year average rate would be around 7 percent, capturing the tail end of the 1980s, when interest rates were very high. Even with the modification that would let companies plug a higher rate into their pension calculations, making the plans look better funded and reducing the required contributions.
Congress has been struggling for years to find a new source of money for roads and other infrastructure, because the main source, an 18.4-cents-a-gallon tax on gasoline, no longer covers the cost. The gas tax has not been changed since 1993, and as oil prices have spiked in recent years Americans have been switching to more fuel-efficient cars and driving less.
Pressure has also mounted this year to find a way to keep the interest rate on Stafford loans from doubling on Sunday, when a five-year rate relief program is set to expire. The current rate, 3.4 percent, will rise to 6.8 percent without an extension, affecting more than seven million students who are expected to take out such loans for the next academic year.
Lawmakers tussled over other sources of money, with Republicans and Democrats shooting down each other's proposals, until pensions came into focus, both as a possible revenue source and a much-needed piece of bipartisan common ground. Lawmakers of both parties are inclined to find ways to help companies operate their pension plans, as a way of enhancing retirement security.
The 2006 pension rules were written to be phased in slowly, to give companies time to adjust, and after the financial debacle of 2008, Congress delayed the phase-in even more, to help companies conserve their cash. Even then, no one expected the Federal Reserve's policy of using low interest rates to stimulate the economy to still be in force.
Low interest rates may help the economy overall, but they are a hardship for the companies that offer pensions to their workers. When interest rates are low, the funding rules call for companies to put more money into their pension plans, on the assumption that the money will compound more slowly. And this year, because the economy is still weak, companies with pension plans were back on Capitol Hill once again, asking for additional help. But this time they proposed a new way of calculating pension obligations, by adjusting the interest rates they use to calculate contributions.
''Today's historically low rates are creating an artificial funding crisis for employers across the country,'' said Kenneth W. Porter, the former chief actuary of DuPont, at a hearing in February of a subcommittee of the House committee on education and the work force. ''Why should obligations due over 50 years be calculated on interest rate movements that may be aberrational or attributable to government economic policy?''
Mr. Porter, who now has his own consulting firm, urged lawmakers to reduce the effect of low rates by permitting companies to average interest rates over 25 years instead of two.
The proposal set off a ruckus in the world of pension actuaries, because it came at a time of rising concern that certain actuarial methods are producing numbers so distorted they are misleading. The board that writes accounting rules for states and cities just completed a grueling five-year project on the issue, seeking to produce more credible numbers. The interest rate it chose was entirely different from what another board, which issues actuarial rules, has called for. The Securities and Exchange Commission has been sending officials to speak at pension conferences, issuing warnings against ''cherry-picking'' assumptions, like interest rates.
No one in any of these organizations has recommended averaging interest rates over 25 years.
Donald E. Fuerst, a pension expert at the American Academy of Actuaries, sent an unusual letter to the lawmakers in May, advising against it. Pension values based on a 25-year average rate ''are insufficient,'' he wrote, ''and do not provide meaningful information about the current funded status of the plan.''
Congressional staff members said they were surprised that the academy took the stand it did. A decision was made in the House to reduce any risk to the pension system by requiring bigger contributions to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, which is supposed to finance its own operations, but has a deficit in most years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donald E. Fuerst of the American Academy of Actuaries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ACTUARIES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGHWAY FUNDING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (89%); INTEREST RATES (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); TAX LAW (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (75%); FUEL TAX (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); GASOLINE (60%)

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ACTUARIES (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1086 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Where Making Summer Fun Is a Family Matter

BYLINE: By DANA DiFILIPPO

 BODY:
EGG HARBOR TOWNSHIP, N.J. -- At the beginning, you meet Mother Goose. She is a 25-foot tower of concrete, rheumy-eyed but smiling, standing beside a goose almost as gargantuan as a giraffe.
''You are now entering a storybook world,'' says a sign beside her purple skirt. ''Follow this path, and it will lead you well.''
Nearby, rosy-cheeked animatronic bruins greet you with wide smiles at the kitchen table in the Three Bears House. Mama Bear in her frilly pink apron and Papa Bear in snug blue overalls tell you their story, while Baby Bear seems pleased to discover Goldilocks in his bed upstairs. A few steps away, you can walk into Moby-Dick's cavernous mouth and hear him laugh as your feet tickle his tongue. Go farther, and you'll see the Old Woman's Shoe, a cow jumping over the moon, and a crooked man with a crooked cat and a crooked mouse in their little crooked house. 
This is Storybook Land, a family-owned amusement park outside Atlantic City that is meant for children up to 10 years old. At other parks you get Kingda Ka and Top Thrill Dragster, roller coasters at Six Flags in Jackson, N.J., and Cedar Point in Sandusky, Ohio, that send riders rocketing faster than 100 miles per hour and plunging 400 feet. At Storybook Land you get Bubbles the roller coaster, a happy sea serpent that sails at 18 m.p.h. over a 15-foot drop. Such pint-size thrills have given Storybook Land a niche as larger corporate-owned theme parks have chased ever faster, taller and louder adventures.
''We like the smaller children,'' said Esther Fricano, 90, who started Storybook Land with her husband, John, in 1955. ''We wanted a place just for them.''
Mr. Fricano was a World War II veteran, a father of two and a house painter with asthma living in Vineland. Looking for a job that would give him more fresh air and frustrated by a lack of activities for his young children, he decided to create a park for families. He bought five wooded acres on the Black Horse Pike, then a main thoroughfare to the Jersey Shore, and cleared the land by hand. Esther, who had been a secretary on a chicken farm, sewed curtains and otherwise decorated the small features her husband built. Storybook Land was born.
In the early days it was just a gravel lot, a luncheonette, unpaved paths through the oak and pine trees and a nursery rhyme-themed playground. It was a stop on the way to the beach to stretch the legs and let the kids blow off steam. One of the original attractions was the Little Red Schoolhouse, which the Fricanos, avid antique collectors, filled with old desks and blackboards. Mary's little lamb, the one who followed her to school one day, still greets visitors beside its jaunty front door.
But otherwise Storybook Land looks nothing like the black-and-white photographs that chronicle the history on the walls of the Dining Depot. Today 15 rides are spread over 20 shady acres, including a carousel, old-fashioned cars that meander along a track, a train that chugs around the park and a small Ferris wheel. Relics of the region's past dot the park, including four seats salvaged from the long-gone Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia, which are flanked by sky-high Phil and Phyllis statues, the pre-Phillie Phanatic mascots of the Phillies. The family even brought in a tiny 127-year-old chapel from a Vineland farm, complete with a recording of the original owner's daughter playing the organ for the enjoyment of those who pause in the few pews.
The park has live animals that are all tied to nursery rhymes, including chickens and peacocks (''Hickety Pickety''), geese (''Goosey, Goosey Gander'') and goats that live in a house on stilts (''The Three Billy Goats Gruff''). Storybook Land stays open through the winter holidays so that Santa and Mrs. Claus can turn on a dazzling light display and hear children's wish lists. Outside Santa's house is the North Pole, a six-foot pole of ice that somehow stays frozen all summer long, drawing plenty of triple-dog dares from children channeling Schwartz, Flick and Ralphie from ''A Christmas Story.''
Mr. Fricano died in 2009 at 87, but Esther Fricano still visits the park every day to do bookkeeping or to dote on her adult grandchildren, Jessica and J. J., who now help run Storybook Land with their father, John Jr., and their aunt JoAnne. They own 30 acres beyond the park and are considering improvements, like expanding a small splash area that opened in 2006.
''We don't want to get too big; we don't want anything we can't handle,'' Jessica Fricano said. ''But this is like a blank slate to me. The possibilities are absolutely endless.''
Esther Fricano, laughing, added: ''Now we have our grandchildren working, and we'll wait for the great-grandchildren to come help out too. By that time, I'll be walking around with two canes.''
More than 30 amusement and water parks are in New Jersey and New York alone. Family ownership can be an advantage with all that competition in a slow economy, said Chip Cleary, the president and chief executive of the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions.
''They can turn on a dime,'' he said. ''If they want to make a decision, they don't have to get a board of directors together to discuss it and vote on it. They're more nimble; they can just make a very quick pivot and head in a new direction.''
But a tried-and-true path has worked for Storybook Land. Sure enough, many of the displays impart time-tested lessons. Don't talk to strangers, for instance, is the takeaway when Little Red Riding Hood visits her ''grandma.''
''It's just so simple, isn't it?'' said Dermot Nolan, a 41-year-old from Ireland who read about Storybook Land online and decided to visit with his wife, Ann, and their sons Ben, 4, and Tom, 2, midway through their recent vacation in Ocean City. ''For years we've been doing the nursery rhymes with the kids, and it's just so nice to bring them alive for them now.''
''Alice in Wonderland'' came alive for Sara Montagno, 4, of West Deptford, who wheedled her mother, Susan, into cutting lunch short so they could return to Alice's cavelike structure covered with hallucinogenic murals made more vivid by glow-in-the-dark paint.
''Like I fall down a rabbit hole, a real rabbit hole,'' Sara told her mother. ''I want to do that right now.''
Playtime Close to Home: Some longtime family-owned amusement parks in New York and New Jersey: ADVENTURELAND Opened in 1962 on Long Island, this park offers classic rides like roller coasters and bumper cars, an arcade, outdoor carnival games, Kiddie Land, Bavarian Village and miniature golf; 2245 Broad Hollow Road (Route 110), Farmingdale, N.Y.; (631) 694-6868, adventureland.us. LAND OF MAKE BELIEVE AND PIRATES COVE Opened in 1954, this park has rides for the young and old and water rides like slides and a lazy river; 354 Great Meadows Road (Route 611), Hope, N.J.; (908) 459-9000, lomb.com. STORYBOOK LAND 6415 Black Horse Pike (Routes 40/322), Egg Harbor Township, N.J.; (609) 646-0103, storybookland.com. SEABREEZE AMUSEMENT PARK Opened in 1879, this amusement park is among the country's oldest. Besides classic rides and a water park, Seabreeze has the Jack Rabbit, an out-and-back roller coaster built in 1920 that is one of the oldest operating American coasters; 4600 Culver Road, Rochester, N.Y.; (585) 323- 1900, seabreeze.com. WILD WEST CITY Opened in 1957, this frontier town stages fake shootouts, live music and other shows all day. Visitors can pan for gold, play miniature golf and ride a train, stagecoach and ponies; 50 Lackawanna Drive, Stanhope, N.J.; (973) 347-8900, wildwestcity.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above left, three generations of the Fricano family, owners of Storybook Land: from left, Jessica, Esther, John Jr., JoAnne and J. J. Above, Kole Breslin, 2, of Alloway, N.J., on a ride with his mother, Laurie. Gabriel, far left, and Luke Dilks with pirate paraphernalia. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); BEACHES (78%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (66%); WORLD WAR II (61%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (61%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (50%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1087 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Black Market for Body Parts Spreads Among the Poor in Europe

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
BELGRADE, Serbia -- Pavle Mircov and his partner, Daniella, nervously scan their e-mail in-box every 15 minutes, desperate for economic salvation: a buyer willing to pay nearly $40,000 for one of their kidneys.
The couple, the parents of two teenagers, put their organs up for sale on a local online classified site six months ago after Mr. Mircov, 50, lost his job at a meat factory here. He has not been able to find any work, he said, so he has grown desperate. When his father recently died, Mr. Mircov could not afford a tombstone. The telephone service has been cut off. One meal a day of bread and salami is the family's only extravagance. 
''When you need to put food on the table, selling a kidney doesn't seem like much of a sacrifice,'' Mr. Mircov said.
Facing grinding poverty, some Europeans are seeking to sell their kidneys, lungs, bone marrow or corneas, experts say. This phenomenon is relatively new in Serbia, a nation that has been battered by war and is grappling with the financial crisis that has swept the Continent. The spread of illegal organ sales into Europe, where they are gaining momentum, has been abetted by the Internet, a global shortage of organs for transplants and, in some cases, unscrupulous traffickers ready to exploit the economic misery.
In Spain, Italy, Greece and Russia, advertisements by people peddling organs -- as well as hair, sperm and breast milk -- have turned up on the Internet, with asking prices for lungs as high as $250,000. In late May, the Israeli police detained 10 members of an international crime ring suspected of organ trafficking in Europe, European Union law enforcement officials said. The officials said the suspects had targeted impoverished people in Moldova, Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus.
''Organ trafficking is a growth industry,'' said Jonathan Ratel, a European Union special prosecutor who is leading a case against seven people accused of luring poor victims from Turkey and former communist countries to Kosovo to sell their kidneys with false promises of payments of up to $20,000. ''Organized criminal groups are preying upon the vulnerable on both sides of the supply chain: people suffering from chronic poverty, and desperate and wealthy patients who will do anything to survive.''
The main supply countries have traditionally been China, India, Brazil and the Philippines. But experts say Europeans are increasingly vulnerable.
An estimated 15,000 to 20,000 kidneys are illegally sold globally each year, according to Organs Watch, a human rights group in Berkeley, Calif., that tracks the illegal organ trade. The World Health Organization estimates that only 10 percent of global needs for organ transplantation are being met.
Nancy Scheper-Hughes, the director of Organs Watch and a professor of medical anthropology at the University of California, Berkeley, said the attempt by poor Europeans to sell their organs was reminiscent of the period after the collapse of the Soviet Union, when chronic joblessness created a new breed of willing sellers.
Trade in organs in Serbia is illegal and punishable by up to 10 years in prison. But that is not deterring the people of Doljevac, a poor municipality of 19,000 people in southern Serbia, where the government refused an attempt by residents to register a local agency to sell their organs and blood abroad for profit.
Violeta Cavac, a homemaker advocating for the network, said that the unemployment rate in Doljevac was 50 percent and that more than 3,000 people had wanted to participate. Deprived of a legal channel to sell their organs, she said, residents are now trying to sell body parts in neighboring Bulgaria or in Kosovo.
''I will sell my kidney, my liver, or do anything necessary to survive,'' she said.
Hunched over his computer in Kovin, about 25 miles from Belgrade, Mr. Mircov showed a reporter his kidney-for-sale advertisement, which included his blood type and phone number.
''Must sell kidney. Blood group A,'' the ad said. ''My financial situation is very difficult. I lost my job, and I need money for school for my two children.''
After six months of advertising, Mr. Mircov said, his days are punctuated by hope and disappointment. He said a man from Mannheim, Germany, had offered to fly him to Germany and cover the transplant costs. But when Mr. Mircov tried to follow up, he said, the man disappeared.
A woman from Macedonia offered $24,000 for a kidney from his partner, Daniella, but that was $12,000 below her asking price. She noted that she has blood type O, which can bring a $12,000 premium on the organ market because the blood is safe for most recipients.
Mr. Mircov said he had no fear about an eventual operation or legal strictures forbidding organ sales. ''It's my body, and I should be able to do what I want with it,'' he said.
Government officials insisted that Serbia was not so poor as to reduce people to selling their body parts, while police officials said not a single case of organ trafficking in Serbia had been prosecuted in the past 10 years. Experts who study illegal organ sales said prosecutions were rare because transplants usually took place in third countries, making them difficult to track.
Dr. Djoko Maksic, a leading nephrologist who runs the transplant program at the Military Medical Academy in Belgrade, expressed disbelief that illegal organ selling was taking place in Serbia, saying every potential donor was scrutinized and vetted by a hospital committee consisting of doctors, ethicists and lawyers.
But Milovan, 52, a former factory worker from a rural village in southern Serbia, said he ''gave'' his kidney to a wealthy local politician who, in return, put him on his company payroll and offered to buy him medication. The kidney was extracted at a public hospital in Belgrade, he said, with both men using forged donor cards indicating they were brothers.
Debt-ridden, Milovan, who declined to give his last name for fear of being ostracized by his neighbors, lamented that the recipient had recently cut him off, and his family said he had spent his money so quickly that he was reduced to selling eggs at a local market.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Kovin, Serbia, Pavle Mircov has advertised a kidney for sale online after losing his job.
 Ervin Balo, a father of two with his wife, Elvira, tried to sell a kidney to support his family in Kikinda, Serbia, while unemployed. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IAN WILLMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGAN TRAFFICKING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (87%); POOR POPULATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ORGAN DONATION (77%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (71%); ORGANIZED CRIME (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); BIOETHICS (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (68%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (61%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) EUROPE (97%); SERBIA (95%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); KOSOVO (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UKRAINE (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); BELARUS (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); TURKEY (79%); GREECE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1088 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Ford Motor, Citing Europe's Woes, Says Foreign Losses to Triple in Quarter

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DEARBORN, Mich. -- Europe's economic woes are taking a much bigger bite out of the profits of Ford Motor, which until now has largely avoided the hefty losses that have dragged down the profits of many of its rivals.
The company said on Thursday that its total international losses would triple in the second quarter, with Europe accounting for the most of the loss. Ford lost $190 million in the first quarter in its international operations, which include Europe, South America and the Asia-Pacific region. Europe was responsible for $149 million of the total. 
The company's chief financial officer, Robert Shanks, said in an interview that conditions in Europe were ''getting tougher,'' as manufacturers stepped up discounts to jump-start sales, which are at their lowest level in more than a decade. ''We lost $190 million in the first quarter, and it will be three times greater than that'' in the second quarter, Mr. Shanks said in the interview, held at Ford's world headquarters.
A loss on international operations of $500 million to $600 million in the quarter, which will end on Saturday, would depress Ford's overall earnings for the period. The company previously forecast that international losses in the second quarter would be roughly the same as in the first quarter.
''We have good results in North America and solid results at Ford Credit,'' Mr. Shanks said. However, ''the overall company profits will be substantially lower.''
Ford shares, which were flat in regular trading on Thursday, fell about 3 percent after hours after online publication of the weaker forecast.
Ford has suffered less from the downward spiral in European vehicle sales than has General Motors, which is planning to close at least one assembly plant on the Continent.
But now Ford appears to be facing the same hard choices about plant capacity as G.M., Fiat and other carmakers.
Mr. Shanks said the company had ''excess capacity'' in Europe but declined to reveal specifics of any potential plans for reorganization.
''It's too soon to say what we are going to do,'' Mr. Shanks said. When asked if Ford would consider closing one of its five assembly plants to better align supply with demand, he said, ''We're going to have to develop a plan that gives us an opportunity to do that.''
Ford has an 8 percent market share in Europe, and last year it broke even in the region, where about 15.3 million total vehicles were sold. But with industry sales in Europe now running at a 14 million rate, Ford cannot make money, Mr. Shanks said.
''As we look ahead, this is not a cyclical issue,'' he said. ''It's a structural issue.''
Ford earned $1.4 billion in the first quarter because of strong North American results. The company's home market contributed $2.1 billion in pretax profits. The forecast for Ford's overall second-quarter results underscores how badly the European market is hurting even the healthiest companies.
Mr. Shanks, who took over as Ford's top finance official this year, said the difficulty of reaching a solution to the European economic crisis could force automakers to make decisions soon on revamping.
''If the leaders of Europe aren't able to come up with a really good plan to satisfy the financial markets, there could be severe consequences,'' he said.
He did not break out specific projections about the performances of South America and Asia-Pacific in the second quarter. But in a securities filing after the stock market closed on Thursday, the company said that it faced ''growing competitive and pricing pressures'' in South America and that it continued to incur big investment costs to catch up to other automakers like G.M. in Asia.
The South American division had a pretax profit of $54 million in the first quarter, and Asia-Pacific reported a $95 million loss.
Ford's disclosure came the same day that the board of Opel, G.M.'s European business, approved a business plan that it hopes will reverse years of losses there.
G.M. has already said it will close an Opel plant in Bochum, Germany, after 2016.
The company declined to reveal more specifics on Thursday about the overall turnaround effort, but said that it would ''be instrumental in returning positive results'' at Opel.
G.M. has been talking with its European unions for months on stemming its losses, which totaled $256 million in the first quarter. The company's vice chairman, Stephen J. Girsky, said in a statement that it remained committed to its struggling European subsidiary. The business plan calls for larger investments in the region as well as revamping.
''G.M. stands behind Opel and supports management and labor,'' said Mr. Girsky, who oversees Opel's supervisory board.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ford Fiestas and Fusions were shipped on the Rhine near Dusseldorf in 2009. The company said its operations in Europe had excess capacity and were suffering. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVER BERG/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (74%); MARKET SHARE (71%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); FORD MOTOR CO OF CANADA LTD (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1089 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: A Late-Day Bounce Eases Losses

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The stock market fell on Thursday but pared back its sharp losses late in the day amid talk of progress by European leaders in easing that region's debt crisis.
Markets are especially skittish about any shift in expectations for the euro zone as European Union leaders gathered for the first day of a two-day summit meeting in Brussels.
''This is a process that is just going to wind on and is going to bring us periodic bouts of volatility in our markets depending on the news flow,'' said Matt Kaufler, portfolio manager at Federated Investors. 
Stocks opened lower after two government reports raised further concerns about weakness in the economy and the job market. The gross domestic product grew at an annual rate of only 1.9 percent in the first quarter, while the number of Americans filing new claims fell very slightly, to a seasonally adjusted 386,000, a level that suggests that hiring remained sluggish.
Those losses accelerated after a divided Supreme Court upheld the centerpiece of President Obama's health care law.
The decision surprised many investors who say they believe that the law, which requires that most Americans obtain insurance by 2014 or face a penalty, is the hallmark of an administration that is unfriendly to business.
Stocks rebounded from most of their losses in the late afternoon, although major insurers like Aetna, which face more regulation, ended lower. The stocks of other companies reliant on Medicaid, like Wellcare Health Plans, rose as their patient rolls were expected to increase. Aetna ended down 2.7 percent to $39.85; Wellcare jumped 8.8 percent to $53.98.
''Because it was such an unexpected result from the Supreme Court today, you knew the market had to have at least a short-term violent reaction,'' said Jim Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management. ''At the end of the day, what does it really change for the performance to the end of the year? Probably not much.''
The Dow Jones industrial average, which dropped as much as 177 points, ended the day down 24.75 points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,602.26. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 2.81 points, or 0.21 percent, to 1,329.04. The Nasdaq composite index lost 25.83 points, or 0.9 percent, to 2,849.49.
Shares of JPMorgan Chase dropped 2.5 percent to $35.88 after The New York Times reported that the bank's losses from a recent botched trade could reach $9 billion, more than four times the original estimate.
Shares of Barclays slumped 12.1 percent to $10.84 after Britain said it had brought in the fraud squad to investigate possible crimes over attempts to manipulate lending rates, a scandal that is expected to spread to other banks. Lloyds fell 3.6 percent to $1.87.
As European Union leaders began their two-day meeting, finance officials were working on urgent measures to diminish financial market pressure on Spain and Italy, which may prove to be more difficult to bail out than smaller nations in the euro zone.
Commenting on the market's late-day bounce-back, traders pointed to two blocks of small S.& P. futures contracts, known as e-minis, that traded in the last half-hour and might have helped to spike buying interest. More than 28,000 S.& P. e-mini futures contracts traded at 3:34 p.m. as the market jumped, the heaviest one minute of volume since the morning.
''They are thinking they might get something done in Europe -- don't believe the hype. This has been a four-, coming up on a five-year problem, and I don't see it going away,'' said Jason Weisberg, managing director at Seaport Securities.
In the bond market, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 11/32, to 101 17/32, while its yield fell to 1.58 percent, from 1.62 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SUPREME COURTS (87%); INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); MEDICAID (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); APPEALS (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (61%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (57%); WELLCARE HEALTH PLANS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); FII (NYSE) (57%); WCG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (54%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELGIUM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1090 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
SOUTH KOREA TO SIGN TREATY
TO SHARE DATA WITH JAPAN
In a significant step toward overcoming lingering historical animosities with its former colonial master, the South Korean government has unexpectedly announced that it will sign a treaty with Japan to increase the sharing of secret military data on two major common concerns: North Korea's nuclear and missile threats and China's growing military might. Page A4
A PAGEANT AS MEMORIAL 
Made up entirely of contestants who are Holocaust survivors, a beauty pageant in Israel has tapped into a core conflict that bedevils this society. Most everyone agrees on the need to keep the memory of the Holocaust central and alive, but not everyone agrees how. Page A4
INCREASE IN ORGAN TRADING
Facing grinding poverty, some Europeans are seeking to sell their kidneys, lungs, bone marrow or corneas, experts say. The spread of illegal organ sales has been abetted by the Internet, a global shortage of organs for transplants and, in some cases, unscrupulous traffickers ready to exploit the economic misery. Page A8
U.N. DROPS ONE CHARGE
The United Nations judges hearing the case against Radovan Karadzic, the former Bosnian Serb psychiatrist who became a nationalist wartime leader, have dropped one of the two counts of genocide against him, the court announced. Page A8
AFGHAN TALKS RAISE HOPES
A flurry of informal contacts between the Afghan government and insurgent representatives over the last week suggests that long-stalled peace negotiation efforts may be inching forward, Afghan officials say, though American officials played down the significance of the meetings. Page A10
HIGH LEVEL TARGETS IN SYRIA
Syrian insurgents fighting to topple President Bashar al-Assad struck at high-profile targets in the capital region for the third time this week, demonstrating their increasing effectiveness and reach. Page A10
National
EXPLODING FLASHLIGHTS
BAFFLE LAW ENFORCEMENT
Booby-trapped flashlights that appear to have been planted randomly around Phoenix explode whenever they are turned on and have left five people with minor injuries. These improvised explosive devices have tested the investigative abilities of police officers and federal agents. Page A12
PROGRESS AGAINST PREDATORS
The convictions of Jerry Sandusky for molesting boys and of Msgr. William J. Lynn for shielding predatory priests show the success of efforts to punish child sexual abuse more seriously. But the real victory is a decline in the crime itself. Page A13
MEDICAID GROWTH AND STATES
The Supreme Court said that a huge expansion of Medicaid envisioned in the 2010 health care law was an option, not a mandate, for states. Experts disagreed on whether states would take the option, one of the most important questions created by the court's decision. Page A16
New York
DEALING WITH THE HEAT,
AND DEMANDS OF CUSTOM
As the mercury climbs, New Yorkers start to wilt and peel off the layers. Yet amid all the casual summer wear, Hasidic men and women cover themselves up in public, no matter the heat. The secret appears to be a matter of faith. Page A19
TALLY'S PACE QUESTIONED
Two days after the state's Congressional primary, supporters of the top challenger to Representative Charles B. Rangel voiced concerns that some votes had still not been counted. Page A21
Obituaries
IVAN KARP, 86
A fast-talking New York gallery owner, he helped find, popularize and market a new school of ''pop'' artists, including Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein. Page A23
Business
IN HEALTH RULING,
A MIXED BLESSING
The immediate view of the impact of the Supreme Court's ruling that upheld the nation's health care overhaul was that hospitals will gain millions of paying customers. Insurers, by contrast, could face crimped profits from restrictive rules. Medical device and pharmaceutical companies will bear increased payments but nothing they were not already expecting. Page B1
RIM DELAYS NEW PHONE
Research in Motion unexpectedly announced that a new line of phones that it still hopes will revive its BlackBerry brand will be delayed until next year. Page B1
SOLAR COMPANY BANKRUPT
Abound Solar, a solar panel maker that received a $400 million loan guarantee from the federal government, announced that it would file for bankruptcy amid plummeting prices and intense competition. Page B2
EUROPE CRISIS HITS FORD
Europe's economic woes are taking a much bigger bite out of the profits of the Ford Motor Company, which until now has largely avoided the hefty losses there that have dragged down the profits of many of its rivals. Page B3
LINKING ROADS AND PENSIONS
Lawmakers looking for money to finance low-cost student loans and fix aging highways have found about $20 billion in an unlikely place: company pension funds. Page B3
Sports
GYMNAST SEEMS LIKELY FIT
FOR WOMEN'S OLYMPIC TEAM
Aly Raisman has turned herself into one of the world's best gymnasts and has also learned how to remain calm when the pressure is on. These factors, along with her being a favorite of the coordinator of the United States women's team, make her a likely candidate for one of the five spots on the Olympic team for the London games. Page B10
Weekend
HOW A WALLED TOWN
BECAME A MIGHTY CITY
In Washington, the Folger Shakespeare Library exhibition ''Open City: London, 1500-1700,'' shows a great city taking shape in the midst of foolishness, brutality, dogma and trauma, Edward Rothstein writes. Page C23
NOT YOUR CHILD'S TEDDY
Tolerant amusement is pretty much the best that ''Ted,'' a film about a teddy bear that comes to life directed by Seth MacFarlane and starring Mark Wahlberg, is able to manage, even though it strives for obnoxious hilarity, A. O. Scott writes. Page C1
OP-ED
David Brooks PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENOCIDE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); MEDICAID (89%); LITIGATION (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); HOLOCAUST (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (70%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); ORGAN DONATION (69%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); CHILD ABUSE (66%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (66%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%); 2011 PENN STATE SEX ABUSE SCANDAL (60%); RELIGION (60%); PEACE PROCESS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (57%); JERRY SANDUSKY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SYRIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ISRAEL (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1091 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: Justices Allow the Term 'Tax' to Embrace 'Penalty'

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
There are lots of taxes that people pay only if they buy something -- sales taxes, taxes on cigarettes and taxes on airline tickets among them.
But by calling the penalty for not buying health insurance a tax, the Supreme Court on Thursday effectively created a tax that people will pay only if they do not buy something.
That decision led some opponents of the health care law to proclaim that it was a large tax increase, something the sponsors of the bill had explicitly denied when the law was passed.
To some extent, calling it a tax does break new ground. 
''Nobody here can think of an example where you pay a tax if you do not buy something,'' said Howard Gleckman, a resident fellow at the Tax Policy Center in Washington. ''But there are plenty of examples of where you get a tax break for doing something or buying something. In effect, your failure to buy something means you will pay more taxes.''
Health insurance, as it happens, has long been one such area. Suppose your employer pays you a $90,000 salary and spends $10,000 to buy health insurance for you. All $100,000 is considered a business expense and is therefore a tax deduction for the company, but you will pay income taxes only on the $90,000.
If the employer did not buy insurance, but instead paid you the full $100,000, the company's tax bill would be unchanged. But you would pay taxes on the full $100,000, even if you used $10,000 of it to buy the health insurance the employer was no longer providing.
In his majority opinion, Chief Justice John Roberts noted that there was nothing new about Congress using taxes ''to encourage buying something,'' pointing to the tax breaks for those who buy their homes as an example. He quoted a 1937 Supreme Court decision stating that every tax ''interposes an economic impediment to the activity taxed as compared with others not taxed.''
The law in question did not call it a tax. It called it a penalty for not buying health insurance. To the dissenters, that proved it was not a tax. To the chief justice, the choice of words could not obscure the reality. He noted that those who chose to pay the penalty rather than buy health insurance would be writing checks to the Internal Revenue Service and would not end up with a criminal record.
Chief Justice Roberts wrote that the amount of the penalty ''is determined by such familiar factors as taxable income, number of dependents and joint filing status,'' and that those who did not pay taxes because their income was too low would not have to pay any penalty at all.
There is nothing novel in using the government's power to tax as a justification for a new benefits program, said Matt Fink, a former president of the Investment Company Institute who is writing a biography of Carter Glass, a former Treasury secretary and, as a senator, author of banking legislation during the 1930s.
When the establishment of Social Security was challenged after it was enacted in 1935, Mr. Glass said that ''the Supreme Court ruled 7-2 that the new Social Security program, based on the government's broad power to tax, was fully constitutional.''
In that case, however, the government had based its justification for the law on the power to tax, while President Obama and Congressional Democrats specifically denied that they were raising taxes through the penalty for not buying health insurance.
But then, as now, it was a Supreme Court justice who came up with the justification for the program, Mr. Fink said, referring to a document on the Social Security Web site that relates an anecdote from a speech by Frances Perkins, the former labor secretary under Franklin D. Roosevelt. At a tea party in 1934, the document says, Ms. Perkins found herself seated next to Justice Harlan F. Stone.
''In their small talk,'' the Web site says, the justice ''inquired as to how her work was going. The secretary freely admitted they were stuck on the administration's new Social Security bill, and were uncertain on what basis the new program should be founded. Upon hearing this, the justice looked around to see if anyone was listening, leaned over to her, and putting his hand up to his mouth, whispered: 'The taxing power of the federal government, my dear; the taxing power is sufficient for everything you want and need.' The secretary excitedly returned to her staff and announced she had made up her mind. They would base the new program on the government's power to tax.''
Regardless of whether the required payment for those who choose not to buy health insurance is or is not a tax, the health care program is about to raise taxes on high-income Americans, which could cause some of them to sell stocks before the year is out.
The second health care bill passed by Congress in 2010, devised in part to fix errors in the first law and in part to pay for it, raised the Medicarepayroll tax rate by 0.9 percentage points, to 3.8 percent, effective in 2013, for taxpayers with total incomes of more than $200,000, or $250,000 for married taxpayers filing jointly. The law also extended that tax to income on investments, including capital gains, interest, dividends, annuities and royalties, but only for such high-income taxpayers.
For people whose incomes are that high, the effective tax rate on dividends and long-term capital gains will rise to 18.8 percent from the current level of 15 percent, said Robert N. Gordon, president of Twenty-First Securities, a brokerage firm.
It could, of course, go even higher if Congress fails to extend the George W. Bush tax cuts that are now scheduled to expire at the end of the year. Mr. Gordon said that could encourage some taxpayers to sell investments before the year ends, rather than wait. ''We know taxes are going up,'' he said. ''It is just a matter of how much.''
Correction: June 30, 2012, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Friday about the Supreme Court's ruling on the health care law misstated the terms of an increase in the Medicare tax, to take effect in 2013, that was part of a second health care bill passed in 2010. The higher rate of 3.8 percent will apply only to incomes higher than $200,000 per year, or $250,000 for married taxpayers filing joint returns, and will be applied to investment income as well as ordinary income. Those earning less will continue to be taxed at the rate of 2.9 percent, which will apply only to earned income, as it does now. The article also gave an incorrect source for an anecdote about Frances Perkins, then the labor secretary, and Justice Harlan F. Stone in 1934 when the Roosevelt administration was seeking a justification for the Social Security program. The anecdote was taken from a a Social Security history on the agency's Web site that was forwarded to The Times by Matt Fink, a biographer. It was not related by Mr. Fink himself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Frances Perkins, the labor secretary, was among the officials with President Franklin D. Roosevelt when he signed the Social Security bill, which was based on the government's power to tax. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); APPEALS (72%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1092 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Another Food Company Deepens Roots in Bronx, But Reception Is Mixed

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Even as FreshDirect's planned move to the Bronx faces opposition from residents, city officials are forging ahead with plans to transform the borough into a destination site for the food industry.
In the first major expansion of Hunts Point in three years, the Chefs' Warehouse, a specialty-foods distributor, has agreed to take over a 176,000-square-foot building next June that it has shared space in since 2003. The deal is expected to create 100 new jobs in the next five years.
''It's part of a growing trend that we're seeing of food distribution businesses locating in and expanding in the South Bronx,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, president of the New York City Economic Development Corporation. 
City officials are also seeking proposals for a vacant 424,250-square-foot parcel in Hunts Point known as the Halleck Street Industrial Development Site. In addition, the city and state are currently in negotiations to renovate and expand the Hunts Point Terminal Produce Market. Last week, the federal Transportation Department awarded the market a $10 million grant to improve its freight-rail system.
But the city's efforts to expand Hunts Point have raised concerns among some Bronx residents who fear that it will lead to more truck traffic, further congesting their roads and increasing air pollution in an area with high asthma rates. More than 77,000 vehicles a day pass through Hunts Point, including 12,000 diesel trucks, according to city estimates.
Monxo Lopez, a Mott Haven resident and a leader of South Bronx Unite, a community group that is part of a lawsuit to block FreshDirect's move to the Bronx, said that his members would be concerned about any expansion or development at Hunts Point.
''Any project that brings pollution -- visual, noise or air pollution -- we are against,'' Mr. Lopez said. ''We know the need for jobs and economic development in the area, but we know there are other ways those goals can be achieved.''
In February, FreshDirect, the online grocer, was promised a $128 million package of money and tax breaks to build its new headquarters on a site in the Harlem River Yard. It expects to hire Bronx residents for a third to half of the 3,000 jobs that will be based there.
The Chefs' Warehouse will receive no public subsidies for its expansion, city officials said.
Mr. Pinsky said the city was working with neighborhoods in the South Bronx to redirect truck traffic away from residential areas, encourage companies to use trucks that run on alternative fuels and create a new greenway that will include parks, bike lanes and pedestrian paths.
In addition, Mr. Pinsky said, an $11 million fueling station will begin construction next year in Hunts Point to support alternative fuel use, and negotiations over the expansion of the Hunts Point produce market will aim to reduce the number of diesel-burning trucks currently parked on site for use as additional storage.
The Chefs' Warehouse signed a new lease for 15 years, with an option to renew for two 10-year periods, that would require the company to pay $1.32 million annually to occupy the entire building at 200-240 Food Center Drive, and another $420,000 annually to lease a 58,000-square-foot rail shed that will be used for offices and cold storage. The Chefs' Warehouse plans to spend between $15 million and $20 million on renovations, city officials said.
Chris Pappas, the chairman and chief executive of the Chefs' Warehouse, said that expanding in Hunts Point would ''provide us with more capacity to serve our current customers and room to grow as we continue to expand our client base and culinary offerings.''
The last major expansion in Hunts Point was in 2009, when Anheuser-Busch opened a 186,000-square-foot warehouse and distribution center.
Correction: July 3, 2012, Tuesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article in some editions on Friday about a specialty-foods distributor's agreement to expand in the Bronx referred incorrectly to a planned move to the borough by another food company, FreshDirect. While FreshDirect was promised a $128 million package of money and tax breaks in February, it did not receive the package then.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Chefs'Warehouse, a specialty-food distributor, will be taking over a building in its expansion in the Hunts Point area. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); FOOD INDUSTRY (92%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (91%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TRUCK SAFETY (87%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (86%); AIR POLLUTION (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (77%); GROCERIES WHOLESALERS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); TRENDS (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%); LITIGATION (66%); ASTHMA (50%); INTERNET RETAILING (50%)

COMPANY: FRESHDIRECT LLC (85%); CHEFS' WAREHOUSE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (55%)

TICKER: CHEF (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (85%); NAICS424490 OTHER GROCERY & RELATED PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); SIC5149 GROCERIES & RELATED PRODUCTS, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2012



1093 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: The Pressure Mounts To Hit Law's Deadlines

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK and REED ABELSON

 BODY:
The Supreme Court's decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act shifts the focus from whether sweeping changes to the health insurance market should take place to a scramble to meet the law's rapidly approaching deadlines.
A number of largely Republican-led states that gambled on delay now face the unsettling prospect that the federal government could take over their responsibilities, particularly in setting up the health insurance marketplaces known as exchanges, where people will be able to choose among policies for their coverage.
Under the law, which the court upheld in its entirety by a 5-to-4 vote, individuals must be able to buy insurance coverage through the new state exchanges by Jan. 1, 2014. But a more immediate deadline is less than six months away, on Jan. 1, 2013, when states must demonstrate to the Department of Health and Human Services that the exchanges will be operational the next year. 
If they do not, the secretary, Kathleen Sebelius, ''shall establish and operate'' the exchanges for the states, according to the statute, a prospect that Republican governors like Rick Scott of Florida, Rick Perry of Texas and Scott Walker of Wisconsin would presumably find anathema.
Mr. Walker quickly raised the risk by announcing that, in spite of the ruling, he would continue to delay any imposition of the law while waiting to see whether Republicans took control of the White House or Congress in November. Republicans on Capitol Hill, and the party's presumptive presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, have vowed to repeal the entire law if they gain power.
''Wisconsin will not take any action to implement Obamacare,'' Mr. Walker said in a statement. ''I am hopeful that political changes in Washington, D.C., later this year ultimately end the implementation of this law at the federal level.''
Mr. Perry issued a statement calling the court's ruling ''a stomach punch to the American economy.'' While he did not say whether he would move ahead to put the law in place, he echoed Mr. Walker in using the ruling as a call to political arms. ''Now that the Supreme Court has abandoned us,'' Mr. Perry said, ''we citizens must take action at every level of government and demand real reform.''
The court also left conservative states and those with financial troubles to decide whether to participate in a significant expansion of Medicaid eligibility scheduled for 2014. The majority ruled that it was permissible for the federal government to impose such an expansion on states, and to ask that they eventually pay a fractional share of the cost of covering low-income residents.
But it ruled that the federal government could not penalize states for noncompliance by withholding their existing federal Medicaid dollars, effectively eliminating Washington's enforcement stick.
Ohio's Republican governor, John R. Kasich, suggested in a statement that he would examine his options. ''We are very concerned that a sudden, dramatic increase in Medicaid spending could threaten Ohio's ability to pursue needed reforms in other areas, such as education,'' he said. ''Going forward, we remain committed to minimizing the law's drag on the economic growth Ohio is beginning to experience.''
But other Republican governors also seemed unsure. Mr. Scott, one of the law's most ardent opponents, said only that he was disappointed and needed to review the ruling closely before deciding whether Florida would establish its own exchange or extend Medicaid eligibility.
With the insurance mandate upheld, the law's major changes are now scheduled to take place by 2014, unless the forthcoming election and budget realities dictate otherwise.
Individuals who do not qualify for exemptions based on income or religion will be required to have minimum insurance coverage, or pay income tax penalties. Insurers will have to offer policies to anyone who applies, even those with expensive medical conditions, and to charge them rates comparable to healthy individuals of the same age. Under the law, those rules already apply to children.
The Medicaid expansion, along with tax credits to subsidize premiums for low-income consumers, leaves hospitals and physicians to prepare for an influx of newly insured patients.
The government projects that about 32 million people will gain insurance by 2019, with 24 million obtaining coverage through the exchanges and about 16 million newly qualifying for Medicaid, the government insurance program for the poorest Americans.
Hundreds of other provisions, reaching into every corner of American health care, also remain on the books. Many are already in place like new regulations that eliminate caps on coverage and limit insurers' profits.
Only 10 states and the District of Columbia have passed laws governing the establishment of their insurance exchanges, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.
Insurance executives and hospital executives say meeting the law's deadlines will be challenging, even for those states and insurers that have already invested significant time and money in creating the exchanges. Federal officials, they say, have been slow to release some of the final regulations necessary for them to move forward, and some states seem to have made no apparent progress in setting up the infrastructure for an exchange, although they may have taken some steps privately.
''It's going to be a significant lift to be done in all 50 states,'' said Mark T. Bertolini, the chief executive of Aetna, one of the largest health insurers. Among the challenges, he said, was to continue to work with state and federal officials to develop rules that lead to a working market. ''We're going to need further regulation,'' he said, to make sure enough healthy people sign up for coverage.
Karen Ignagni, the chief executive of America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade association, said insurers had already been working hard to meet the law's deadlines but emphasized how complicated it was to put it into effect. ''This is a full-on exercise because of the complexity,'' she said.
The challenge is obviously greater in those states that have done little on their own to develop the infrastructure. In Florida, for example, Florida Blue, one of the state's major insurers, is prepared for 2014, said its chief executive, Patrick J. Geraghty. But he conceded that the timeline for putting it in place was ''a significant burden and will be challenging.''
But there also was some relief that the decision eases some of the tremendous uncertainty over the future of the law and allows insurers and employers to move forward. ''What this did do was provide another chapter of clarity,'' said David Cordani, the chief executive of Cigna, another major insurer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INSURANCE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); SCOTT WALKER (79%); RICK SCOTT (77%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (79%); JOHN KASICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1094 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Justices, By 5-4, Uphold Health Care Law; Roberts In Majority; Victory For Obama

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK; Reporting was contributed by John H. Cushman Jr., Robert Pear, John Schwartz, Ethan Bronner and Sabrina Tavernise.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court on Thursday upheld President Obama's health care overhaul law, saying its requirement that most Americans obtain insurance or pay a penalty was authorized by Congress's power to levy taxes. The vote was 5 to 4, with Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. joining the court's four more liberal members.
The decision was a victory for Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats, affirming the central legislative achievement of Mr. Obama's presidency.
''The Affordable Care Act's requirement that certain individuals pay a financial penalty for not obtaining health insurance may reasonably be characterized as a tax,'' Chief Justice Roberts wrote in the majority opinion. ''Because the Constitution permits such a tax, it is not our role to forbid it, or to pass upon its wisdom or fairness.'' 
At the same time, the court rejected the argument that the administration had pressed most vigorously in support of the law, that its individual mandate was justified by Congress's power to regulate interstate commerce. The vote was again 5 to 4, but in this instance Chief Justice Roberts and the court's four more conservative members were in agreement.
The court also substantially limited the law's expansion of Medicaid, the joint federal-state program that provides health care to poor and disabled people. Seven justices agreed that Congress had exceeded its constitutional authority by coercing states into participating in the expansion by threatening them with the loss of existing federal payments.
Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who had been thought to be the administration's best hope to provide a fifth vote to uphold the law, joined three more conservative members in an unusual jointly written dissent that said the court should have struck down the entire law. The majority's approach, he said from the bench, ''amounts to a vast judicial overreaching.''
The court's ruling was the most significant federalism decision since the New Deal and the most closely watched case since Bush v. Gore in 2000. It was a crucial milestone for the law, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, allowing almost all -- and perhaps, in the end, all -- of its far-reaching changes to roll forward.
Mr. Obama welcomed the court's decision on the health care law, which has inspired fierce protests, legal challenges and vows of repeal since it was passed. ''Whatever the politics, today's decision was a victory for people all over this country whose lives are more secure because of this law,'' he said at the White House.
Republicans, though, used the occasion to attack it again.
''Obamacare was bad policy yesterday; it's bad policy today,'' Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, said in remarks near the Capitol. ''Obamacare was bad law yesterday; it's bad law today.'' He, like Congressional Republicans, renewed his pledge to undo the law.
The historic decision, coming after three days of lively oral arguments in March and in the midst of a presidential campaign, drew intense attention across the nation. Outside the court, more than 1,000 people gathered -- packing the sidewalk, playing music, chanting slogans -- and a loud cheer went up as word spread that the law had been largely upheld. Chants of ''Yes we can!'' rang out, but the ruling also provoked disappointment among Tea Party supporters.
In Loudoun County, Va., Angela Laws, 58, the owner of a cleaning service, said she and her fiance were relieved at the news. ''We laughed, and we shouted with joy and hugged each other,'' she said, explaining that she had been unable to get insurance because of her diabetes and back problems until a provision in the health care law went into effect.
After months of uncertainty about the law's fate, the court's ruling provides some clarity -- and perhaps an alert -- to states, insurers, employers and consumers about what they are required to do by 2014, when much of the law comes into force.
The Obama administration had argued that the mandate was necessary because it allowed other provisions of the law to function: those overhauling the way insurance is sold and those preventing sick people from being denied or charged extra for insurance. The mandate's supporters had said it was necessary to ensure that not only sick people but also healthy individuals would sign up for coverage, keeping insurance premiums more affordable.
Conservatives took comfort from two parts of the decision: the new limits it placed on federal regulation of commerce and on the conditions the federal government may impose on money it gives the states.
Five justices accepted the argument that had been at the heart of the challenges brought by 26 states and other plaintiffs: that the federal government is not permitted to force individuals not engaged in commercial activities to buy services they do not want. That was a stunning victory for a theory pressed by a small band of conservative and libertarian lawyers. Most members of the legal academy view the theory as misguided,if not frivolous.
''To an economist, perhaps, there is no difference between activity and inactivity; both have measurable economic effects on commerce,'' Chief Justice Roberts wrote. ''But the distinction between doing something and doing nothing would not have been lost on the framers, who were practical statesmen, not metaphysical philosophers.''
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, in an opinion joined by Justices Stephen G. Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan, dissented on this point, calling the view ''stunningly retrogressive.'' She wondered why Chief Justice Roberts had seen fit to address it at all in light of his vote to uphold the mandate under the tax power.
Akhil Reed Amar, a Yale law professor and a champion of the health care law, said that it was ''important to look at the dark cloud behind the silver lining.''
''Federal power has more restrictions on it,'' he said, referring to the new limits on regulating commerce. ''Going forward, there may even be laws on the books that have to be re-examined.''
The restrictions placed on the Medicaid expansion may also have significant ripple effects. A splintered group of justices effectively revised the law to allow states to choose between participating in the expansion while receiving additional payments or forgoing the expansion and retaining the existing payments. The law had called for an all-or-nothing choice.
The expansion had been designed to provide coverage to 17 million Americans. While some states have indicated that they will participate in the expansion, others may be resistant, leaving more people outside the safety net than the Obama administration had intended.
Although the decision did not turn on it, the back-and-forth between Justice Ginsburg's opinion for the four liberals and the joint opinion by the four conservatives -- Justice Kennedy and Justices Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr. -- revisited the by-now-familiar arguments. Broccoli made a dozen appearances.
''Although an individual might buy a car or a crown of broccoli one day, there is no certainty she will ever do so,'' Justice Ginsburg wrote. ''And if she eventually wants a car or has a craving for broccoli, she will be obliged to pay at the counter before receiving the vehicle or nourishment. She will get no free ride or food, at the expense of another consumer forced to pay an inflated price.''
The conservative dissenters responded that ''one day the failure of some of the public to purchase American cars may endanger the existence of domestic automobile manufacturers; or the failure of some to eat broccoli may be found to deprive them of a newly discovered cancer-fighting chemical which only that food contains, producing health care costs that are a burden on the rest of us.''
All of the justices agreed that their review of the health care law was not barred by the Anti-Injunction Act, which allows suits over some sorts of taxes only after they become due. That could have delayed the health care challenge to 2015. The conservative dissenters said that the majority could not have it both ways by calling the mandate a tax for some purposes but not others.
''That carries verbal wizardry too far, deep into the forbidden land of sophists,'' they said.
As a general matter, Chief Justice Roberts wrote that the decision in the case, National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius, No. 11-393, offered no endorsement of the law's wisdom.
Some decisions, the chief justice said, ''are entrusted to our nation's elected leaders, who can be thrown out of office if the people disagree with them.''
Justice Ginsburg, speaking to a crowded courtroom that sat rapt for the better part of an hour, drew a different conclusion.
''In the end,'' she said, ''the Affordable Care Act survives largely unscathed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sotomayor
Ginsburg
Kagan
Breyer
Roberts
Kennedy
Alito Scalia
Thomas
President Obama addressing the nation about the ruling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
More than 1,000 people gathered outside the Supreme Court on Thursday, packing the sidewalk, playing music and chanting slogans. A cheer went up as word of the ruling spread. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
William Temple was among the Tea Party supporters outside the court. Conservative leaders, including Mitt Romney, vowed to continue their efforts to repeal the law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) GRAPHICS: 5 4 Individual mandate upheld as a tax.
5 4 Medicaid expansion upheld, but limited. (A1)
 CHARTS: Supreme Court Ruling Creates Questions About Medicaid Expansion: Estimates from the Congressional Budget Office show how coverage may change for Americans under 65. (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN ROBERTS (79%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1095 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: A Confused Opinion

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. EPSTEIN. 
Richard A. Epstein is a professor of law at New York University and a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution.

 BODY:
THE stunner yesterday was that Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., joined by the Supreme Court's four most liberal justices, wrote the majority opinion that upheld the individual mandate in President Obama's signature Affordable Care Act, which requires Americans to obtain health insurance or pay a penalty. In an ironic twist, the chief justice simultaneously accepted the conservative argument that Congress's power to regulate interstate commerce did not include the power to regulate economic inactivity, like a decision not to purchase health care. The court ruled 5 to 4 on that point, with the chief justice joined by the court's four other conservative justices.
But what Chief Justice Roberts took from Congress with one hand, he gave it with the other: a broad reading of the taxing power. In the majority opinion, he wrote that since paying a penalty for not obtaining insurance could be seen as a tax, and since ''the Constitution permits such a tax, it is not our role to forbid it, or to pass upon its wisdom or fairness.'' He will no doubt attract praise in some quarters for splitting this baby. 
But his decision is wrong. As a matter of constitutional text, legal history and logic, the power to regulate commerce and the power to tax should not be separated. It is not good for the court or the country that the chief justice's position in such an important case is confused at its core.
Consider first the constitutional text. Chief Justice Roberts refers to Congress's power to ''lay and collect Taxes.'' But it's worth recalling the surrounding language, which notes that Congress has the power to ''lay and collect Taxes'' only in order ''to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of the United States.''
Historically speaking, this clause corrected one of the great weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation (the precursor to the Constitution), which had forced Congress to essentially beg the states for the revenues needed to run its business. By giving Congress independent powers over taxation and other revenue sources, the Constitution ended that dependency. But as a quid pro quo, the Constitution also restricted the use of these revenues to classical public goods -- benefits that must be given to all citizens, if given to any -- like paying off national debts and paying for the nation's defense. General welfare, mentioned in parallel with these two phrases, is best read as covering only matters that advance the welfare of the United States as a whole. The redistribution of income, or ''transfer payments'' among citizens, like those mandated under the Affordable Care Act, doesn't qualify for taxation in this originalist reading of the Constitution.
Through the early 20th century, the Supreme Court was cognizant of this tight relationship between the power to regulate an activity directly and to the power to tax it. The basic idea relies on a simple economic insight: taxation and regulation are close substitutes, so a limitation on one power matters little if the other power is still available. There is no practical difference between ordering an action, and taxing or fining people who don't do that same thing. If the Constitution limits direct federal powers, it must also limit Congress's indirect power of taxation.
In his opinion, Chief Justice Roberts didn't come to grips with the two critical early Supreme Court cases that set out the relationship between the powers of regulation and taxation -- a relationship that survived the New Deal revolution in understanding the Commerce Clause. In the Child Labor Tax case of 1922, the Supreme Court refused to uphold a tax equal to 10 percent of the net profits of any firm that shipped goods into interstate commerce if the firm used child labor anywhere in its plants. Chief Justice William Howard Taft noted that the court's earlier decision in Hammer v. Dagenhart (1918) forbade Congress to use its commerce power to prohibit outright the shipment of ordinary goods across state lines because they were made in factories that used child labor. A heavy tax, the court argued, could not be used to mount an end run around this constitutional obstacle to its own power.
The same point was reinforced in 1936 in United States v. Butler, which struck down a tax on agricultural commodities because it sought to achieve the then unconstitutional regulatory aim of reducing the total acreage in agricultural production. After the 1942 case Wickard v. Filburn, when the Commerce Clause was held to permit such regulation, the tax became just as permissible as direct regulation. Wickard expanded the scope of federal power, but it did nothing to upset the constitutional parity between the taxing and commerce powers.
Chief Justice Roberts has ignored this fundamental principle: If direct regulation is beyond the scope of the Commerce Clause (as he held), then taxation as an indirect route to the same regulation should be off limits as well (as he failed to hold). This is a baby that should not be split. His attempt to do so undermines his ruling, the court and the Constitution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (89%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1096 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: A Vindication, With a Legacy Still Unwritten

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For Barack Obama, who staked his presidency on a once-in-a-generation reshaping of the social welfare system, the Supreme Court's health care ruling is not just political vindication. It is a personal reprieve, leaving intact his hopes of joining the ranks of Franklin D. Roosevelt, Lyndon B. Johnson and Ronald Reagan as presidents who fundamentally altered the course of the country.
For all its weight, however, the judgment does little to settle the bitter debate, spanning decades, over the proper role of government in American life. That debate rages on, with the next acid test only four months away -- an election that will give voters the chance to render their verdict on Mr. Obama's ambitious legacy.
What the Supreme Court's decision does do is preserve Mr. Obama's status as the president who did more to expand the nation's safety net than any since Johnson. It preserves a bill intended to push back against rapidly rising income inequality. And for a self-consciously historic figure, it allows Mr. Obama to argue that he has delivered on the most cherished goal of his 2008 campaign: ''Change we can believe in.'' 
''Historians will compare this to F.D.R.'s Social Security and Lyndon Johnson's Medicare,'' said the historian Robert Dallek, who has written about both presidents. ''This is another step in humanizing the American industrial system.''
In political terms, said Douglas G. Brinkley, a professor of history at Rice University, ''It's the cornerstone of what could turn out to be one of the most extraordinary two-term presidencies in American history.''
Beyond his legislative agenda -- not just on health care, but on education and Wall Street regulation -- Mr. Obama has sketched out a view of government as a force for good, a great leveler and a protector of the middle class. That view stands in stark contrast to the Republican mantra, articulated by Reagan, who headed in the opposite direction in his first inaugural address, saying that ''government is not the solution to our problem; government is the problem.''
Republicans, including the president's challenger, Mitt Romney, have largely hewed to the Reagan script in the decades since, and have met with considerable success doing so. Polls show continuing skepticism of government -- especially of the health law -- and Republicans captured the House of Representatives in 2010 with a small-government message.
But Mr. Obama has constructed his political career on the notion that Americans are ready for something different after three decades of rising inequality and slow-growing incomes for the middle class. While still a candidate in 2008, Mr. Obama declared that Reagan changed history more than either Bill Clinton or Richard M. Nixon. The planets, he said, were once again aligned to make a transformative presidency possible.
''The Republican approach, I think, has played itself out,'' he said to the editorial board of The Reno Gazette-Journal.
Health care has been Exhibit A in that argument, a project he undertook at the cost of other ambitious efforts like curbing climate change or rewriting the tax code. While Mr. Obama will be remembered for bailing out the auto industry, winding down two wars and dispatching Osama bin Laden, health care was his play for history.
Not just Roosevelt and Johnson, but Harry S. Truman, Nixon and Mr. Clinton all tried and failed to move the country toward universal health coverage. Mr. Obama and the Democratic leaders on Capitol Hill succeeded, passing a bill that, through an expansion of private and government insurance, seeks to end the status of the United States as the world's only rich country with millions of involuntarily uninsured citizens.
''Health care has been a squabble without end since the beginning of the progressive era, since Theodore Roosevelt,'' Professor Brinkley said.
In addition to broadening the safety net, the law also seeks to alter a tax structure largely created by Reagan. To pay for the expanded insurance, Mr. Obama and Congress raised Medicare taxes on high-income households, as well as on medical companies.
''We've entered an era of zero-sum trade-offs, and Obama is trying to dramatize those trade-offs,'' said Theda Skocpol, a professor of government at Harvard. ''The health care law really symbolizes that; it's a really redistributionist law.''
Had the justices struck down the law, they would have dealt Mr. Obama a crippling blow in the midst of a hard-fought campaign. Knocking down the central pillar of his legislative agenda would have called into question not only his judgment, but his very legitimacy, according to the presidential scholar Michael Beschloss.
Mr. Obama briefly found himself contemplating that fate just after 10 on Thursday morning as he watched live coverage of the ruling on a bank of television screens outside the Oval Office. Two cable TV networks, CNN and Fox News, erroneously reported that the court had struck down part of the law, before correcting themselves.
If Mr. Obama and his opponents can agree on one thing, it may be that he is trying to move the country away from a laissez-faire period. The rise of the Tea Party movement and the Republican takeover of the House were a backlash against what his opponents saw as an arrogant overreach by the president. The fact that he did it while the country was mired in a recession, and without a single Republican vote, compounded the outrage.
''That changed the entire tenor of politics,'' said Sean Wilentz, a professor of history at Princeton. ''It took a while for the White House to figure out that post-partisanship didn't fit the realities of Washington. They may have misjudged the political situation.''
More broadly, Mr. Obama may have misjudged the readiness of the country to accept an expansion of the government after decades in which Reagan's conservative credo had come to be embraced, even by Democrats like Mr. Clinton, who declared in 1996 that ''the era of big government is over.''
As Steven F. Hayward, an expert in the presidency at the American Enterprise Institute, pointed out, Mr. Obama promoted his health care bill in conservative terms. While still a candidate, he resisted proposals for a mandate to buy insurance. ''He saw that as the kind of big-government idea that doomed Hillary-care,'' Mr. Hayward said, referring to the reform championed by Hillary Rodham Clinton when she was the first lady.
Historians liken Mr. Obama's challenge to Roosevelt's, who had parts of his New Deal struck down in his first term. The lesson for this president, said David M. Kennedy, a historian at Stanford, is to forge a coalition robust enough to change the political landscape. Roosevelt was elected to a second term in a landslide in 1936, cementing the New Deal.
Even if Mr. Obama is re-elected, he could face further legal challenges to the health care law from the states. Likewise, changes in the nation's political landscape could render this week's ruling less definitive than it now appears. But the Supreme Court has given the president crucial standing to make his case.
''It's not so much that the court has, in one stroke, affirmed his legislative legacy,'' said Laurence H. Tribe, a Harvard constitutional law professor who taught both Mr. Obama and Chief Justice John Roberts. ''That will depend on what happens down the road. But there is an interdependence here: the court's decision to say, 'this is not an un-American act' is critical.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, discussing the Supreme Court's decision on Thursday, called it ''a victory for people all over this country whose lives are more secure.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); HISTORY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); VERDICTS (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); MEDICARE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1097 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: The Court and Medical Care: A moderate ruling with risks ahead

 BODY:
There is no underestimating the importance of the Supreme Court decision upholding most of the health reform law -- politically, constitutionally and in terms of its practical effects on the nation and the economy.
These effects were clear from the moment the decision was announced Thursday morning, but the constitutional picture was more complex. The way the decision was framed could make it harder for Congress to pass laws based on the Constitution's commerce clause, which has been at the foundation of some of the most momentous laws and court rulings in American history.
POLITICS AND PERSONALITY The court decision was a huge victory for President Obama at a critical time. The White House has been living for months in dread of the possibility that this increasingly conservative Supreme Court would reverse Mr. Obama's signature policy achievement just a few months before the election.
The White House will still be challenged by the inevitable Republican vote in the House to repeal the law outright, and by the need to counter the spin, which started developing within hours of the Supreme Court ruling, that the way the court framed its decision made it clear that the health care reform is just another tax on the middle class. 
The ruling was a loss for Mitt Romney, who was left fumbling for a cogent response, and will leave him even more vulnerable to attempts by Mr. Obama to remind Americans that, when he was governor of Massachusetts, he championed a health care reform that looks very much like Mr. Obama's law. Mr. Romney's argument, that his reform was right for one state but Washington does not have the power to impose it on the other 49, was refuted by the Supreme Court ruling.
The decision also said a lot about Chief Justice John Roberts Jr., who was considered by many moderates and liberals to be a highly partisan actor dedicated not just to a conservative judicial philosophy but to the political aims of the right wing of the Republican Party. That image was changed in preliminary ways by a week that began with his unqualified agreement to the opinion striking down three provisions of Arizona's draconian anti-immigrant law and ended with the health care ruling, the most important decision by the court in many years.
THE PRACTICAL IMPACT In general, the decision means that tens of millions more Americans will have access to affordable health insurance and that reforms in how medical care is delivered and paid for can be aggressively pursued to bring down the cost of health care. Most of the changes will take effect in 2014, like coverage for adults with pre-existing conditions. Many popular provisions are already in effect, including mandated coverage of pre-existing conditions in children and allowing parents to keep their children on their coverage until they are 26.
The law covers preventive care without cost-sharing by Medicare patients and improves preventive care coverage in private plans. It bans insurers from imposing lifetime limits on how much they will pay for an individual's care. The law is already providing grants to carry out demonstrations and pilot projects to encourage hospitals, physicians and insurers to coordinate care, eliminate waste and reduce medical errors. These initiatives will now be accelerated in coming years.
The major exception to the strong legal endorsement of the law involves Medicaid. The law called for states to expand their Medicaid coverage to virtually everyone earning up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level, or up to $25,390 for a family of three. It encouraged states to expand their programs by having Washington pay 100 percent of the cost of newly eligible enrollees for three years, with the subsidy decreasing after that to 90 percent. But it also contained an implied threat to withdraw all federal financing for Medicaid if a state refused to expand. By a 7-to-2 vote, the court said that was too coercive and upheld only the provision of additional funds.
We disagreed with the court's legal reasoning on this point and believe that without the possibility of withdrawing federal funds, the reform law may fall short of ensuring near-universal coverage.
THE CONSTITUTIONAL FALLOUT When Congress was struggling to pass the health care bill, lawmakers refused to use the word tax to describe the proposed penalties on those who did not obtain insurance. Instead, they used the words ''mandate'' and ''penalty.''
The Obama administration went along with this purely political pretense but made a cogent argument to the Supreme Court that the taxing power was a strong ground for the law, and it sensibly carried the day.
Chief Justice Roberts deserves substantial credit for joining the court's moderate-liberals in finding the mandate constitutional on that basis -- and for sparing the country a spasm of outrage. Had he gone the other way, the ruling would have been seen as an endorsement of Mr. Romney. Chief Justice Roberts can hardly be painted as an Obama partisan.
But when he summarized his opinion from the bench on Thursday, he explained that he found the individual mandate unconstitutional under the commerce clause -- like the four other conservatives whose joint dissent said they would have struck down the law entirely.
His said that rather than regulating ''existing commercial activity,'' the mandate ''compels individuals to become active in commerce by purchasing a product.'' Upholding the provision under the commerce clause would ''justify a mandatory purchase to solve almost any problem,'' he wrote, and that would change ''the relation between the citizen and the federal government.''
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg answered the chief justice in a dissent on this issue for the four moderate liberals. ''Unlike the market for almost any other product or service,'' she wrote, ''the market for medical care is one in which all individuals inevitably participate.'' Virtually everyone has a need for care eventually.
Seventy-five years of commerce-clause precedent dictated a presumption that the law was constitutional on that basis -- without a ''plain showing'' that Congress acted irrationally in passing it.
Justice Ginsburg was right that the chief justice relied ''on a newly minted constitutional doctrine'' to strike down the mandate under the commerce clause, one with no ''home in the text of the Constitution or our decisions.'' An individual who chooses not to buy health insurance can be seen as choosing to self-insure -- clearly an activity in the marketplace.
Politics deluged the court's consideration of health care reform in the many briefs attacking the mandate and other parts of the law and in the intense three-day oral argument, when conservative justices asked questions that brought partisan politics sharply into the nation's highest courtroom.
Fortunately, that did not keep the court from reaching the right result because Congress's taxing power is even greater than its power under the commerce clause. But the change gives conservatives a major -- if not fully understood -- tool in their campaign to limit Congress's efforts to solve problems with social and economic programs. This week's victory carries the potential of defeat in the future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (93%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); MEDICARE (60%); HISTORY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN ROBERTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1098 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: The Upholding of the Health Care Law

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I take back everything negative I ever said about the Supreme Court! (Well, almost everything.) The past year has not been a stellar one for the court. It seems to have taken a decidedly right-wing political view of vitally important issues.
Not only is the decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act (nytimes.com, June 28) constitutionally correct, but it is the right thing for an America struggling with economic and class warfare issues. 
While the Affordable Care Act is by no means a perfect law, it accomplishes some marvelous things: quality, affordable insurance that is guaranteed to all; the ability to keep a child on a parent's health insurance until the age of 26; coverage for pre-existing conditions; and the inability of insurance companies to terminate health care benefits when a person becomes seriously ill.
President Obama accomplished what none of his predecessors could in decades of trying.
HENRY A. LOWENSTEIN New York, June 28, 2012
The writer is a former chief executive of health care companies.
To the Editor:
While I applaud the Supreme Court's decision not to throw the country into chaos, by ruling that penalties for not having or providing health insurance are constitutional, many of us who live and breathe health policy realize that the sad truth is that the law won't work.
Paying the penalties -- now deemed taxes by the court -- is usually far more financially favorable than actually having or providing insurance.
Coverage expansion via Medicaid to millions more Americans is a sham given that it presumes providers can absorb the care for these people at reimbursement rates covering a fraction of the actual cost. Current low Medicaid participation rates by providers suggest that new Medicaid recipients will have coverage but nowhere to use it.
Given that the necessary funding mechanism has been validated, Congress needs to cease ideological warfare and modify -- not repeal -- a law that with appropriate tweaks has long-term potential to right the listing health care ''ship.''
CRAIG H. KLIGER San Francisco, June 28, 2012
The writer is a doctor.
To the Editor:
It is always the hope that Supreme Court justices, insulated from the pressures of politics by their lifetime position, will rise above those pressures and really become supreme justices.
In reality, the shining moments are few. But every now and then a justice really does rise above the pressure. For that I tip my hat to Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. The court was at a precipice, and he walked it back.
WILLIAM SAROKIN Mount Kisco, N.Y., June 28, 2012
To the Editor:
Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.'s legerdemain in finding what Congress clearly intended to be a civil penalty to be a tax seems the opposite of the old saw that if it looks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it must be a duck.
Good grief, what an act of judicial activism -- one that I suspect the left will applaud.
RON HOLDAWAY Draper, Utah, June 28, 2012
To the Editor:
Let's get real about health care reform. Although the Affordable Care Act will bring health insurance to many, it will not bring health care to all or control costs. Millions will still be uninsured or underinsured: one job loss or illness away from bankruptcy. Billions of dollars will continue to be wasted by private, for-profit insurance companies through inflated administrative costs, profits to shareholders and huge salaries for chief executives. These dollars could all be going toward providing health care if we eliminated this unnecessary middleman.
We do not have to look far for a way to do this. Our Medicare program can be expanded to provide care for all. If Congress won't do this, New York State can lead the way with its own single-payer bill. New York could show the nation how to end the disgrace of allowing so many of the 99 percent to suffer and die for lack of health care that, soon, will be affordable only for the 1 percent.
ELIZABETH R. ROSENTHAL Larchmont, N.Y., June 28, 2012
The writer is a doctor.
To the Editor:
For decades we have been faced with two moral injustices in the health care system. The more obvious one -- lack of universal health care insurance -- has now been resolved by the decision to uphold the insurance mandate provision.
Now we can direct our energy to perhaps the greater moral imperative -- providing high-quality health care at a price that will not bankrupt the nation. Those of us on the front lines of designing and delivering this new health care model, whose hallmarks are coordination and standardization of care, elimination of waste and improvement of clinical outcomes, can now breathe a sigh of relief that we are one moral imperative down and only one to go.
ROBERT A. PHILLIPS Senior Vice President UMass Memorial Health Care Worcester, Mass., June 28, 2012
To the Editor:
Finally the Supreme Court has handed down not only the constitutionally right decision but also the morally right decision, especially for the 50 million uninsured people. This health care law is based on a principle that we as a nation need to care for those who are less fortunate as well as respect individual rights.
I am proud of this law and this decision because they affirm once again our sense of community.
STEPHEN LIEM Antioch, Calif., June 28, 2012
To the Editor:
I've been following all the health care reporting and punditry very closely for the past few years, and now, in light of the Supreme Court's decision, there's just one thing I don't understand. How much broccoli do I have to buy to be in compliance, and what's the penalty -- I mean the tax -- if I don't?
MARK R. GODBURN North Canaan, Conn., June 28, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); MEDICAID (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); INSURANCE (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1099 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Vowing To Take Battle Into November

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Jackie Calmes and Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting from Washington, and Jim Rutenberg from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Mitt Romney and other Republicans who oppose the health care law are looking ahead to one remaining avenue of appeal: the ballot box in November.
Taken aback by the Supreme Court ruling on Thursday that upheld the constitutionality of the law, Mr. Romney and Congressional Republicans pledged to intensify their efforts to repeal it, an argument that will be a crucial element of the party's quest to galvanize conservative activists and win control of the White House and the Senate.
Republicans swiftly sought to turn the court's reasoning against President Obama, recasting the legislation as a tax increase. Mr. Romney, who as governor of Massachusetts signed a similar health care law, was one of the few in his party who did not join in that argument. Instead, he criticized the ruling and called the federal law a job killer that inserted the government between patients and their doctors.
For Mr. Obama, the Supreme Court victory blunted efforts by his opponents to brand him as a feckless and failed leader who invested too much time trying to overhaul the health care system as the economy foundered. 
In an example of the conservatives' determined drive against the president, the House voted just hours after the Supreme Court decision to hold Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. in contempt of Congress.
Still, the health care ruling validated, for now, the president's gamble in pushing through the most ambitious domestic legislation of his administration, and it energized his re-election campaign at the close of an otherwise frustrating stretch.
Yet Mr. Obama's triumph will not necessarily endure in an election that is still expected to be decided on jobs and the economy. The president also faces the challenge of trying, once again, to sell the merits of the health care overhaul in the court of public opinion after largely failing to do so the first time around.
Public sentiment about the Affordable Care Act has been essentially frozen since Mr. Obama signed the law two years ago, but the Supreme Court ruling holds the potential to shift opinions, especially among independent voters. Because the ruling came with the blessing of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., widely viewed as a staunch conservative, it could give Mr. Obama a second chance to persuade Americans that the law is a prudent and not excessively ideological approach to a pressing problem, and to create something of a permission for voters to see the law in a different light.
''Whatever the politics, today's decision was a victory for people all over this country whose lives will be more secure because of this law,'' Mr. Obama said from the East Room of the White House, taking care to avoid being seen at reveling in his victory.
But even as the White House cast the law as a means for families to feel more economically secure, Republicans rushed to portray it as an expensive intrusion by Washington into middle class pocketbooks. One of Mr. Obama's central campaign promises was that no individual making less than $200,000 a year, and no couple with an annual income under $250,000, would pay ''one penny'' in new taxes if he were elected.
Republican leaders pounced, with Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, declaring: ''This law is a tax. This bill was sold to the American people on a deception.''
Mr. Romney chose instead to cast the health care overhaul as poisonous to the economy and a prime example of the Obama administration's expansion of government.
''What the court did not do on its last day in session, I will do on my first day as president of the United States,'' Mr. Romney said in a rare appearance on Capitol Hill shortly after the ruling. He added, ''Our mission is clear: If we want to get rid of Obamacare, we're going to have to replace President Obama.''
There is an element of fatigue about the discussion in the electorate. And both men are operating with constraints: Mr. Obama after being stung by making health care such a focal point of his first term, when voters were overwhelmingly concerned about the economy, and Mr. Romney for signing a health care law in Massachusetts that included a mandate.
After running through the benefits of the law, Mr. Obama took care in his East Room remarks to signal that he was most concerned with the economy, saying it was now time ''to keep our focus on the most urgent challenge of our time: putting people back to work, paying down our debt and building an economy where people can have confidence that if they work hard they can get ahead.''
But for the many outside groups that were so active in the health care debate two years ago, the Supreme Court's injected new life into the fight. Democrats talked about how repeal efforts would now be seen as taking away popular provisions.
On the other side, Tea Party groups and other conservative organizations were poised to pour new resources into arguments that the decision provided all the more reason to vote the president and Democrats out of office so that the law could be repealed in Congress. That idea was already sweeping the ranks of Tea Party activists, whose movement came to life through the early fight over the law.
''Thank you, Scotus,'' former Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska declared on her Facebook page after the Supreme Court decision was announced. ''This Obamacare ruling fires up the troops as America's eyes are opened! Thank God.''
Crossroads GPS, a Republican ''super PAC'' that operates separately from Mr. Romney's campaign, said that it would begin a campaign next week seizing on the tax argument. Several conservatives said the ruling gave them a far more potent wedge than they would have had if the court had knocked down all or parts of the law.
''The Supreme Court's decision is actually a tremendous windfall because it reminds people viscerally about the law,'' said Steven Law, president of Crossroads GPS. ''It takes the centerpiece of it and declares it a massive tax on the middle class, and it will refocus people on the particular provisions of the bill that they don't like and fear.''
If there was a downside for Democrats beyond the tax argument, it was that the ruling threatened to weaken the complaint among liberals that the Supreme Court is steeped in conservative politics and that it is urgent for voters to rally to the president's side.
''The politics be damned,'' said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader who lost her role as House speaker in the wake of the health care vote in 2010. ''This is about what we came to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney stopped on Capitol Hill after the ruling on Thursday. ''If we want to get rid of Obamacare,'' he said, ''we're going to have to replace President Obama.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); APPEALS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); TAX LAW (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN ROBERTS (57%); ERIC HOLDER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1100 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Exempts Singapore And China On Iran Oil

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Acting at the last minute, the Obama administration on Thursday spared China and Singapore from potentially onerous financial penalties required under a strict American law on Iran sanctions, saying that both countries had earned an exemption by significantly reducing their purchases of Iranian crude oil.
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton announced the waivers for China and Singapore in a statement as the American law, aimed at severely reducing Iran's ability to export oil, its economic lifeline, formally took effect. The law is part of a coordinated Western effort to pressure Iran economically because of its disputed nuclear program. The European Union will impose an embargo on Iranian oil starting this Sunday. 
The measures are sure to compound economic pain in Iran, where oil exports this year compared with 2011 have plunged by 40 percent, according to the International Energy Agency.
The American waiver granted to China, Iran's top customer of oil, was regarded as especially significant because it averted a potentially serious collision between China and the United States, which are both members of the group of six big powers that are negotiating with Iran in the nuclear dispute. Under the American law, banks of countries that are Iranian oil importers can be denied access to the American banking system.
Eighteen countries had previously been granted exemptions because they had significantly reduced their Iranian oil purchases.
''Their cumulative actions are a clear demonstration to Iran's government that Iran's continued violation of its international nuclear obligations carries an enormous economic cost,'' Mrs. Clinton said in the statement. With the European Union embargo, she said, Iran ''will understand even more fully the urgency of the choice'' it faces ''and the unity of the international community.''
The European embargo could be far more harmful to Iran than the American measure because it also applies to European maritime insurers, which cover the vast majority of global oil shipments. Many non-European customers of Iran have been scrambling to find alternative ways to insure their purchases. South Korea, for example, which is among the countries that have been granted a waiver under the American law, has said the European embargo will force it to halt purchases of Iranian oil.
The stronger sanctions are taking effect as Iran and the six powers, known as the P5-plus-one because they include the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council plus Germany, prepare for a low-level meeting in Istanbul next week to try to advance the nuclear negotiations, which remain stalled after three rounds of talks.
Iran has refused to accept Security Council resolutions demanding that it halt all uranium enrichment and prove the activity is for peaceful purposes, as Iran has repeatedly claimed.
Iran's lead nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, said in a letter to Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief, that Iran regarded the new sanctions as ''illegal tools instead of logic in the negotiations,'' Iran's state-run Press TV broadcaster reported.
Iran's oil minister, Rostam Qasemi, said that if South Korea made good on its intention to stop buying Iranian crude oil, ''there will be a reconsideration in ties with this country,'' the official Islamic Republic News Agency said.
The timing of the Obama administration's decision to grant China an exemption partly reflects the difficulties the Americans have faced in persuading China to curtail its Iranian oil purchases. China can exert enormous economic leverage on Iran. But it has publicly criticized the Western sanctions, saying they have only exacerbated tensions with Iran.
At the same time, China is engaged in a pricing dispute with Iran, which partly explains its reduced purchases this year.
Senior administration officials said they believed China had made a sincere effort to reduce its purchases in part because of the new American law. They cited Chinese data showing that China's purchases had declined by 25 percent in the January-May period compared with the same period in 2011, and that China expected further declines this year.
Alireza Nader, an Iran analyst at the Washington offices of the RAND Corporation, a research group, called the waiver expected. ''We don't want to sanction China, but we also want to reduce purchases of Iranian oil,'' he said. ''For now, what China has done has helped the sanctions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); INSURANCE (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); OCEAN MARINE INSURANCE (62%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: SAEED JALILI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); BARONESS ASHTON OF UPHOLLAND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); TURKEY (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1101 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: The Court and Medical Care: A muddled political response from the right

 BODY:
The future of the health care system is now back where it should be, out of the hands of judges and into those of voters. With the constitutional question about President Obama's health care law now settled, the public will have a chance to examine Mitt Romney's claims that it is terrible for the country. Based on his remarks on Thursday, they will not have much to go on.
Mr. Romney's speech was clearly not the one he wanted to give, and it showed. He stumbled by reminding people that the Supreme Court did not proclaim the law to be a good one, implying the constitutional question was a minor issue. The court's role, of course, is not to judge the wisdom of the laws that Congress passes, as much as Mr. Romney might wish it had. 
Because the Supreme Court did not repeal the law, Mr. Romney vowed to do so himself on his first day as president, a vow that will be impossible to fulfill, not just on his first day, but ever if he cannot round up 60 votes in the Senate. Otherwise the heath care law will stay on the books, and as much as he may try to defund it or ignore it, he will have taken an oath to uphold it. Even if he should succeed in a repeal, he has provided very little information on the kind of law he would put in its place.
Will he try to provide health care for the nearly 50 million people who are now uninsured, 30 million of whom would have health coverage under President Obama's law? They went unmentioned in Mr. Romney's speech, as they almost always do when he is on the stump, except in a vague, indirect reference: ''We also have to assure that we do our very best to help each state in their efforts to assure that every American has access to affordable health care.''
Not a word, however, on how he will do that, particularly given his plan to severely cut Medicaid and other aid to states, as part of the budget proposed by Representative Paul Ryan, a Republican of Wisconsin, which he has embraced. Far from helping states, those cutbacks would make it more difficult for states to offer insurance or basic care to the poor and the uninsured. If anything, his Web site, which is supposed to provide such details, is even worse, promising only to give states ''the incentive and the flexibility to experiment.'' That's hardly reassuring given the abysmal record of many states on health care coverage.
Much of what he said was flatly wrong. The law does not add ''trillions to our deficits and to our national debt.'' It lowers the deficit, as the Congressional Budget Office has repeatedly noted. It does not keep businesses from hiring and will not cause 20 million Americans to lose their insurance.
As Mr. Obama noted in his response Thursday, those who have insurance will be able to keep it. The president does not talk often about the details of his own law. But his comments are a good reminder of how it will serve all Americans and a vital response to Mr. Romney's tired recitation of economic doom.
The indifference of voters to Mr. Romney's prior support for health reform when he was governor of Massachusetts won't last if he refuses to produce a serious plan of his own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (88%); BUDGETS (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (65%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1102 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: South Korea Plans to Sign Military Pact With Japan

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- In a significant step toward overcoming lingering historical animosities with its former colonial master, the South Korean government has unexpectedly announced that it will sign a treaty with Japan on Friday to increase the sharing of classified military data on what analysts cite as two major common concerns: North Korea's nuclear and missile threats and China's growing military might.
The announcement set off a political firestorm in South Korea, where resentment of Japan's early 20th-century colonization remains entrenched and any sign of Japan's growing military role is met with deep suspicion. The opposition accused President Lee Myung-bak of ignoring popular anti-Japanese sentiments in pressing ahead with the treaty, the first military pact between the two nations since the end of colonization in 1945. 
North Korea accused Mr. Lee's government of ''selling the nation out.''
The accord, the General Security of Military Information Agreement, provides a legal framework for South Korea and Japan to share and protect classified and other confidential data. Cho Byung-jae, the spokesman of the South Korean Foreign Ministry, said the South Korean ambassador to Tokyo, Shin Kak-soo, and Japan's foreign minister, Koichiro Gemba, plan to sign the treaty on Friday, after the Japanese cabinet's approval.
The United States has been urging the two countries to strengthen military ties, so the three nations can deal more efficiently with threats from North Korea.
It was well known that South Korea and Japan, which enjoy thriving economic ties and cultural exchanges, were negotiating the deal, but the opposition and other government critics here were caught off guard by Thursday's announcement because earlier indications had been that historical hostilities would again delay a pact. The two remain locked in disputes over the ownership of a set of islets and over Tokyo's rejection of talks on compensating ''comfort women,'' Koreans the Japanese military forced into sexual slavery during World War II.
Military cooperation between the two has lagged, although a cautious military rapprochement sped up after North Korea's artillery bombardment of a South Korean island in 2010. China's naval expansion has also prompted politicians in the two countries to call for closer military ties. In the past week, the United States, Japan and South Korea conducted a joint naval exercise in the seas south and west of the Korean Peninsula.
Officials here said the need for the allies to share data on bellicose and enigmatic North Korea has grown with the increased uncertainty after the death of its longtime ruler, Kim Jong-il, in December.
Under the rule of his son Kim Jong-un, North Korea has vowed to bolster its production of nuclear weapons. It launched a rocket in April, and although it failed to put a satellite into orbit, Washington condemned the launching as a test of intercontinental ballistic missile technology.
The political opposition and several civic groups in South Korea warned that the new military cooperation deal would only intensify regional tensions and encourage Japan's ''militaristic ambition.'' ''When the Lee Myung-bak government started out, it was pro-American to the bone, and as it nears the end of its term, it is proving pro-Japanese to the bone,'' said Park Yong-jin, spokesman of the main opposition Democratic United Party.
Mindful of such a political offensive, Hwang Woo-yea, the head of the governing New Frontier Party, visited the disputed islets in the sea between South Korea and Japan on Thursday in a symbolic gesture reconfirming South Korea's territorial claim.
''Every grain of sand here, every rock here, belongs to South Korea,'' he told South Korean police officers guarding the islets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WORLD WAR II (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); POLITICS (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (76%); SLAVERY (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (60%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (78%); LEE MYUNG-BAK (74%); KIM JONG UN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1103 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1359 words

HEADLINE: Funds And Allies Defend The Buck

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
Here's a clever idea.
Let's start a bank. It will take deposits, promising to pay them back on demand. It will use the money to make short-term loans to borrowers it thinks are safe. If too many depositors want their money back quickly, it will sell the loans to somebody else, for face value.
Our bank will not keep reserves on hand to deal with what would happen if any of our borrowers failed to repay their loans. Keeping such reserves, you see, would be far too costly, and reduce the rates we could pay to our depositors.
Nor would we be willing to tell our depositors that they might not have instant access to their funds. That might scare the depositors away. We won't pay fees for deposit insurance, but we hope our customers will assume that the government will protect them anyway if we fail. 
That whole idea sounds crazy, but in fact we already have such banks. They are called money market funds, and they have $2.5 trillion in assets.
Mary Schapiro, the chairwoman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, is trying to impose some regulations to treat such funds a little more like banks, but that is being fought bitterly by the fund companies and by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which has established a Web site and blanketed the Washington subway station nearest the S.E.C. offices with ads denouncing such rules as outrageous.
The S.E.C. is expected to seek comment soon on possible new rules, but it is far from clear that Ms. Schapiro can prevail. Three of the other four commissioners have voiced sympathy for the money market fund industry. She would need at least three votes, including her own, to pass a rule. If the S.E.C. does act, there will be efforts to get Congress or the courts to overrule it.
The very existence of the money market fund industry is a tribute to foolish regulation decades ago, when banks were prohibited from offering competitive rates on savings accounts. Now, with rates very low, it is almost impossible to make money running a money market fund, but the fund groups want to stay in the business because they do not want to lose customers to real banks or to other mutual fund companies.
Currently, money market funds -- unlike all other mutual funds -- try to appear to be risk-free. The funds have net asset values per share of exactly $1, and ''breaking the buck'' is widely feared. The S.E.C. rules allow the funds to maintain that dollar value so long as the real value is at least 99.5 cents.
But of course the reality is that money market funds do sometimes lose money on securities they buy. The buck is broken far more often than fund investors realize -- or it would be if fund sponsors did not step up and take the losses themselves. In Senate testimony this month, Ms. Schapiro said the commission had counted 300 cases in which the fund sponsors bailed out their funds over the years.
In 2008, the sponsor of the Reserve Primary Fund, which owned Lehman Brothers securities, could not afford to do that. The fund broke the buck and caused a run on all money market funds, even ones that invested only in Treasury securities. The government stepped in to guarantee all money market funds.
''Unless money market fund regulation is reformed,'' Ms. Schapiro testified, ''taxpayers and markets will continue to be at risk that a money market fund can break the buck and transform a moderate financial shock into a destabilizing run. In such a scenario, policy makers would again be left with two unacceptable choices: a bailout or a crisis.''
Implicitly, the fund industry wants us to assume that the government would choose the former.
Ms. Schapiro has suggested a few possibilities. One would be to adopt variable pricing of fund shares, so that if the real value was 99.51 cents, that is what you would get from redeeming the shares. As it is, she pointed out, a fast-moving institutional investor that senses trouble can shift the losses onto other investors. If a fund's real net asset value is 99.74 cents, and large investors redeem half the shares for $1, the net asset value of the remaining shares will fall below 99.5 cents.
To the industry, variable pricing is anathema. The institutional investors that treat money market fund shares as cash would be forced to change accounting systems, at great expense. Retail investors would flee once they realized that losses were possible.
Another approach, she testified, would be to force the funds to hold reserves against such a loss. So the real net asset value of a fund listed at $1 would have to be a little higher than that, with the sponsor putting in the extra money either from its own funds or through reducing the payouts to customers. In that case, a fleeing investor, taking the $1 per share, would be strengthening the fund for the remaining customers.
Or funds could be required to put restrictions on large withdrawals, making it harder for a well-informed investor to get out when trouble comes and leave the losses to the others.
Any such rules, protests the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Web site, ''would fundamentally change the quality and characteristics of money market funds,'' causing both individual and corporate investors to flee.
It says that if regulators can prove changes are needed, ''they should find solutions that preserve the versatility and usefulness of the product for businesses to avoid needlessly hampering our economic recovery.''
In other words, don't do anything to stop the industry from continuing reserve-free banking -- banking that benefits from the assumption that the government will again step in to avoid a crisis.
The chamber has other worries. It fears that the commercial paper market, which provides loans to companies for weeks or months, would be damaged by the decline of the fund industry. ''Since money market funds purchase one-third of all corporate commercial paper, a shrinking money market fund industry would reduce the market for this vital type of financing,'' it states, adding that ''bank lending does not have the capacity to replace the entire void that would be left by a defunct $1.1 trillion commercial paper market.''
As it happens, relatively little of that money is going to such companies anyway. The latest figures show just under $1 trillion in commercial paper outstanding, of which 21 percent is used to finance nonfinancial domestic businesses. Much of the rest goes to foreign banks.
So-called prime money market funds, which seek relatively high yields, ''have evolved into a critical source of short-term wholesale funding for large global banks,'' said David S. Scharfstein, a finance professor at Harvard Business School. ''They are now a much less important funding source for nonfinancial firms.''
If investors did pull money from money market funds, much of it presumably would go into real banks, which would have more money to lend to American companies. But the chamber warns that instead, the money could flow into ''offshore investment vehicles or other unregulated investment products,'' thus increasing the risk to the system. Do they really think that people -- confronted with the reality that there were small risks in money market funds -- would move the money to funds that obviously had much larger risks?
In 2010, the S.E.C. imposed rules that force funds to carry 10 percent of their assets in Treasuries or securities that can be redeemed each day, and another 20 percent in assets that mature within a week. It also gives funds the ability to immediately halt redemptions in the event of a run, an action that would destroy a fund but would at least treat all shareholders alike. Those changes mean funds will be better equipped to deal with withdrawals, but they do nothing to protect investors in a 2008-like crisis. That is the goal of the changes Ms. Schapiro hopes to adopt now.
It is widely expected that Ms. Schapiro will step down after the election, regardless of whether President Obama is re-elected. This could be her last major accomplishment. Or it could provide evidence that we have short memories, and the financial lobbies that want bailouts without real regulation have regained the power they had before the credit crisis erupted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mary Schapiro of the Securities and Exchange Commission at a House hearing this month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); SECURITIES LAW (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1104 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Banking Culture Blasted in Backlash Against Greed

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: The City of London is reeling from the latest revelations of greed and dishonesty within the banking sector. The public wants to know why the guilty are not already in jail. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Who'd be a banker these days? To judge from the outrage unleashed by the latest revelations of financial skulduggery in the City of London, the popular view seems to be that hanging is too good for them.
Even their gazillion-dollar bonuses may offer scant consolation in the face of a public backlash that has branded the likes of Bob Diamond, the American boss of Britain's Barclays Bank, Public Enemies. 
"Bankers? Sack them, prosecute them, hang them!" wrote Quentin Letts at Mail Online in a tongue-in-cheek summing up of the mood in the British Parliament this week where legislators lambasted bankers for greed and dishonesty.
Mr. Diamond is presently taking most of the heat as the personification of the unacceptable face of banking.
The man who tempted fate this year by suggesting it was time for bankers to stop apologizing has been obliged to eat his words - and forgo his bonus - after it was revealed that members of his staff had been involved in rigging a key interest rate.
The Financial Times said few banking scandals "have shone such an unsparing light on the rotten heart of the financial system."
Calling for Mr. Diamond's resignation, the newspaper wrote, "If he had an ounce of shame, he would immediately step down."
The scandal has already led to Barclays agreeing to pay $450 million this week to settle accusations that it tried to manipulate rates, including the London interbank offered rates, or Libor, to benefit its own bottom line.
As Mark Scott writes over at the DealBook blog, Libor is used to determine the costs of $350 trillion in financial products, including credit cards, mortgages and home loans. 
The scandal exposed what appeared to be a prevalent "spiv" culture in which bottles of champagne were on offer in exchange for fixing rates. "Dude. I owe you big time!" one outside trader e-mailed an unidentified Barclays employee. "Come over one day after work and I'm opening a bottle of Bollinger."
Mark writes, "Several traders in both London and New York are still under investigation, and could potentially face either civil or criminal prosecution, according to people with direct knowledge of the matter."
If the Libor scandal was not bad enough, Britain's Financial Services Authority said on Friday that four banks - Barclays, RBS, HSBC and Lloyds - had mis-sold insurance products intended to protect small businesses against a rise in interest rates. The latest revelation exposed the offenders to potential claims amounting to hundreds of millions of pounds.
Mervyn King, the governor of the Bank of England, said on Friday that the scandals showed the culture in the British banking sector must change. 
Sir Mervyn spoke of "excessive levels of compensation, shoddy treatment of customers and a deceitful manipulation of one of the most important rates."
The general public was even more forthright, with some demanding to know why petty criminals were moldering in jail, while big-time city crooks were still walking the streets. A Twitter post from a British blogger, Anna Chen, made the point:
UK rioters imprisoned for stealing bottles of water. #Barclays bosses slapped on wrist for manipulation of trillion-pound markets. #pm
- Anna Chen (@MadamMiaow) June 27, 2012
"It baffles me as to why there aren't massive popular demonstrations in our financial centers," wrote Alan Clark, a Guardian reader, in a letter to the newspaper. "Is it that most of us just now feel so powerless under the thumb of financial, corporate and political elites...?"

        
Cheers and Jeers For Queen's Jubilee
        
Europe Hits Back at Ratings Agencies
        
Europe Slips in World Influence Stakes
        
Disappointment as Gay Marriage Is Left Out of Queen's Speech
        
Across Angry Europe, Voting for 'The Other Lot'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SCANDALS (87%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); INTERBANK LENDING (62%) banking; barclays; bob diamond; britain; city of london; Diamond, Bob; King, Mervyn A; Banking and Financial Institutions; Barclays PLC; Financial Services Authority; Great Britain; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; View From Europe

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (85%); BANK OF ENGLAND (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES AUTHORITY (84%) Barclays PLC; Financial Services Authority

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (85%); BARC (LSE) (85%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

PERSON: Diamond, Bob; King, Mervyn A

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1105 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: University Will Not Investigate Fracking Institute

BYLINE: MIREYA NAVARRO


HIGHLIGHT: Invoking academic freedom, officials say they plan no inquiry into a new university institute that critics say distorted the safety record of fracking. 

 BODY:
The State University of New York at Buffalo has rebuffed calls for an investigation of the work of a new institute it founded that is devoted to the study of shale gas drilling, saying it is defending the freedom of faculty members to conduct research.
The university's Shale Resources and Society Institute came under fire last month after it released a study asserting that state regulation in Pennsylvania had made hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in the Marcellus Shale considerably safer.
A government watchdog group quickly raised questions about the study's data and the authors' ties to the oil and gas industry, and a group of professors and students called for a broader inquiry into the genesis of the institute, which issued the report only weeks after its creation in April.
In a statement posted on Thursday on the university's Web site, officials said the work of the institute was consistent with the mission of a public research university and that its researchers were entitled to delve into controversial subjects like fracking without interference.

"The university's role is to create a forum for objective research and informed debate - not to dictate the position taken by its faculty members," the statement said.
The officials added, "U.B. has no plans to alter or suspend the operations of the institute."
 After a review of the report requested by the dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, Bruce Pitman, the institute's director, and a co-author of the study, John P. Martin, added two corrections this month that were characterized as typographical errors. One substituted the word "number" for "rate" in this conclusion of the report: "Both the rate of environmental violations and subsequent environmental events that caused some physical impact on the environment steadily declined over the past four years, in conjunction with action by state regulators." 
Previously officials had corrected a news release released by the university stating that the study had been "peer-reviewed"; it was not. 
The report examined violations by Marcellus Shale drillers in Pennsylvania from January 2008 to August 2011 and said that the incidence of "polluting environmental events" related to fracking - like contamination of local water supplies and spills - had declined because of state oversight. 
The authors made the case that under New York's proposed rules to allow fracking, which are more stringent than Pennsylvania's, any problems "could have been either entirely avoided or mitigated." 
But the report immediately met with skepticism because the two lead authors,Timothy J. Considine, an economist at the University of Wyoming, and Robert W. Watson, an associate professor emeritus of engineering at Pennsylvania State University, conduct research for the oil and gas industry.
And a local watchdog group, the Public Accountability Initiative, questioned the study's claims, noting that the rate of major violations had actually gone up. The group also produced evidence that the report had copied passages from some of the authors' previous studies without proper attribution.
Kevin Connor, the co-director of the group, called the University of Buffalo's response to the controversy inadequate and "disingenuous."
"It's not acceptable at all," he said. "They haven't addressed some of the most significant problems with the report."
James Holstun, a professor of English at the university and one of about 20 members of a group that is demanding that the institute suspend operations until an investigation into the report and the institute's formation is completed, said the statement posted by the officials responds to "statements that nobody has made."
"The statement stands up stolidly for academic freedom, perhaps hoping that its readers will suspect that somebody has attacked it," he wrote in an e-mail. "Nobody has."
 Instead, he said, critics take issue with "extraordinary irregularities and breaches of academic practice and ethics in the institute's founding, funding, hiring and publication."

        
Fracking Research and the Money That Flows To It
        
A Novel Way to Clean Wastewater
        
New Jersey Senate Bans Treatment of Fracking Waste
        
On Our Radar: Cuts in the Firefighting Budget
        
On Our Radar: A Dry Year So Far

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); ACADEMIC FREEDOM (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%) contamination; fracking; University at Buffalo; Drilling and Boring; Natural Gas; Research; State University of New York at Buffalo; Marcellus Shale; Fossil Fuels; Politics and Policy; Research/Studies; Science

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BUFFALO (94%) State University of New York at Buffalo

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (91%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Marcellus Shale

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1106 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Postcard from Kashmir

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A dispatch from Kashmir from a photographer chronicling both sides of conflicts around the world. 

 BODY:
Nelson Guda, a world-wandering photographer, artist and writer (with a doctorate in biology), sent me a note early this week from Kashmir, the beautiful and turbulent patch of territory caught for decades in a border dispute between India and Pakistan. Tensions were heightened when a revered Muslim shrine was destroyed in a fire on Monday. (The cause is still in dispute.) Guda is there for his Enemies Project, in which he is photographing people on opposite sides of conflicts around the world. I invited him to send a Dot Earth "Postcard," which is posted below with more background and news links: 
I am in Kashmir, the disputed paradise on the border of India, Pakistan and China, as part of a project in which I am photographing people from opposite sides of violent conflicts around the world. On Monday, Dastgir Sahib, the most revered Sufi shrine in Kashmir, caught fire and was destroyed. [.] I went to photograph a separatist leader the morning after and was surprised by the number of police and army on the streets. There are normally many army and police here -- every major intersection has a few with machine guns. On this morning we crossed an intersection with several dozen baton- and machinegun-carrying police and trucks. There is a lot of nervousness and anger.
The Kashmir conflict has been hot and violent over much of the last two decades, but it had cooled off in recent years and tourism picked up. So even though there are army and police everywhere, the city of Srinagar is packed with mostly Indian tourists this time of year. Still, many people tell me that this is just a lull, and that feelings about independence still run strong.
I came to Kashmir as ignorant about the situation here as most Americans probably are. Kashmir is a large area that was divided between India and Pakistan. Ethnically it is predominantly Sufi Muslim -- a sect of Islam that promotes unity among world religions. The main part of Kashmir is controlled by India, which is largely Hindu. I had always thought that the Kashmiri conflict was about religious differences, but I've found that isn't the case. The conflict here is about control of the land, and one of the things that most irks Kashmiris is that they don't have any control over their own natural resources.
Kashmir is an incredibly lush valley nestled in the lower hills of the Himalayas that forms the headwaters of the Indus River -- a massive river that is one of the main water sources for Pakistan and the heart of their primary agricultural valley. The valley is carpeted with rice paddies, strung with fruit and nut orchards and ringed with mountains. Almost every Kashmiri I have met refers to it as a paradise. But this paradise depends on water and the water resources here have been in the news every day since I arrived. The Indian government has put large hydroelectric projects on the Indus in Kashmir, and the vast majority of electricity created by these dams is routed south out of the state of Jammu-Kashmir. Kashmir frequently has blackouts due to not enough electricity even though the power is generated in their own state. In fact, there is no power right now.
Water is also a major issue here. Srinagar sits on a large and beautiful lake, and 40 kilometers away is one of the largest freshwater lakes in the South Asia. I never heard about this in the United States, but it is clear that dispute over water is a big part of the roiling conflict here.
The Kashmiris' main issue is that they want to govern their own land. For Pakistan and India, this is a conflict about environmental resources that has massive implications for food and energy security in the future. Right now the situation here is calm. The people are incredibly friendly and the city is flooded with Indian tourists. The editor of the Kashmir Times told me that the calm is superficial. People here are tired and need the economic activity that comes with tourism, so nobody wants to threaten that revenue. Still, Professor Abdul Gani Bhat, one of the separatist leaders I met here, believes that Kashmir is an internationally dangerous flashpoint in this increasingly important and nuclear-armed region.
The morning after the fire, Lal Chowk, the main square in Srinagar, was mostly deserted as the country went on strike to protest the destruction of the Dastgir Sahib shrine. From my hotel room the quiet has been a bit of a welcome change from the cacophony that usually washes out of the square, but it is probably deceptive. The country is mourning, and this fire touches on their emotions about the unresolved political situation here.
I am in good hands -- the people we know are very well connected, and there is no anger at the West. Still, the situation in Kashmir is very, very complex. It is much more than we hear about in the western news. I've only just touched on some of the many things that are driving this conflict.
For a deeper look at the complex tensions in the region, read Gardiner Harris's feature article in The Times from early this week, "In Kashmir, Killing Ebbs, but Killers Roam Free," and read Guda's blog and Twitter feed.

        
A Memorial Day for War's Fallen, Perhaps Someday for War Itself?
        
Dispatches from Rio and Nepal: Knife Fights Over Firewood
        
On Climate, Ethics, Cow Burps and the Dalai Lama
        
From 9/11/2001 to 9/11/2011 and Beyond
        
Somali Agony and the Outside World

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (84%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); FIRES (76%); MOUNTAINS (63%); TREE NUT FARMING (60%); WATER QUALITY (60%) conflict; India; kashmir; Pakistan; Photography; postcard; religion; violence; war; Qadir, Abdul; Muslims and Islam; Kashmir and Jammu (India)

PERSON: Qadir, Abdul

GEOGRAPHIC: KASHMIR (99%); JAMMU & KASHMIR, INDIA (94%); HIMALAYAS (79%) ASIA (99%); INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%) India; Kashmir and Jammu (India); Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1107 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: CUNY Building at Ground Zero Nears Completion After 11 Years

BYLINE: DAVID W. DUNLAP


HIGHLIGHT: After more than a decade, students at a community college in Lower Manhattan will no longer have to take classes inside a trailer. 

 BODY:
It took much less time to build the second Fiterman Hall than it took to tear down the first one.
Construction began on the new, 17-story, $325 million Fiterman Hall of the Borough of Manhattan Community College in 2009. It is to start receiving students and faculty members this fall, making it a three-year project, more or less.
The old, 15-story Fiterman Hall was critically damaged on Sept. 11, 2001. Eight years passed before it was demolished. The process was plagued by protracted financing battles, debates over the scope of reconstruction, intricate precautions against contamination from potentially toxic materials and the general turf warfare at ground zero.
Meanwhile, students attended some classes in a trailer camp hastily assembled in 2001 alongside the main building on West Street as a temporary measure. The college, a unit of the City University of New York, currently has about 24,200 students, an increase of about 50 percent over the enrollment in 2001. 
The trailers were finally closed this month. Asked if he would like - in his secret heart - to douse the empty trailers with gasoline and set them ablaze in a kind of exorcism rite, Antonio Prez, the president of the college, replied, "That would be arson." 
He did not say, "No."
It was in 2004 that Dr. Prez declared that Fiterman Hall "has to be rebuilt soon." As he led a tour of the new Fiterman Hall two weeks ago, he gave the impression of a man who believed it may have been worth the wait.
The new Fiterman Hall will offer something that has been in short supply at the college: ample space outside and around classrooms for students to socialize, study and simply hang out. "This will be the first time we can give our students a college experience," Dr. Prez said. "They've been stuck in a box and we've asked them to come in all hours of the day and on the weekends." Soon, he said, they will have double-height atrium lounges, a multilevel quiet study area and a ground-floor cafe overlooking Silverstein Family Park, in front of 7 World Trade Center.
Faculty members will get something, too: private offices. "The idea of new furniture is going to be greatly appreciated," said G. Scott Anderson, the vice president for administration and planning.
The long delay actually served the project's interest. Because the economic turmoil that began in 2008 has forced private developers to scale back their building projects, the cost of labor and materials has come down. "Five years ago, we didn't have enough money to get above the fourth floor," Mr. Anderson said. Now, the college's money can be stretched far enough to purchase terrazzo floors for public areas.
Designed by Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, Fiterman Hall is unmistakable in the ensemble of ground zero buildings with its red brick facade. It is sure to draw visitors to its art gallery, Dr. Prez said. Given the tremendous pedestrian traffic that already courses (or shuffles) along nearby Vesey Street, Fiterman Hall will almost certainly become a kind of public front door to the college, whose enormous main building is four blocks north.
More than 70 percent of the cost of Fiterman Hall was financed by city and state matching funds, city appropriations and federal grants. About 20 percent was met by insurance proceeds. The project was overseen at the university level by Iris Weinshall, the vice chancellor for facilities planning for CUNY. The Hunter Roberts Construction Group is the construction manager and general contractor.
Of the building's 17 floors, three are exclusively mechanical, leaving 14 for the college's use, with a total of just over 390,000 square feet. (The old Fiterman Hall had 375,000 square feet.) Ten floors are to be ready for occupancy in the fall by the accounting, business management and computer information science departments. The music and art department and the ethnic studies department will have to wait a few months longer, but music students will get a 2,600-square-foot rehearsal hall with a view of the new World Trade Center and a suspended floor for better acoustics.
And the trailers? They're far too valuable in the overcrowded CUNY system to be discarded. Their next stop, Dr. Prez said, may be Staten Island College.
The new Fiterman Hall is already becoming well enough known to attract critics. Dr. Prez told of a woman passing by who was overheard recently by a Hunter Roberts employee deploring the new structure. "It looks like a school," she complained.
The contractor replied, "Well, it a school."

        
Only 1,671 Feet to Go
        
Phantom Freedom Tower Visible to All
        
The Tallest One in the Hemisphere
        
Little Syria (Now Tiny Syria) Finds New Advocates
        
Way Is Cleared to Rebuild Greek Orthodox Church Lost on 9/11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); ARSON (66%) Architecture; Borough of Manhattan Community College; City University of New York; construction; construction projects; I. M. Pei; Lower Manhattan; World Trade Center; Colleges and Universities; September 11 (2001); Pei Cobb Freed & Partners; Building Blocks; Buildings and Landmarks; Higher Education; Land Use and Planning; Manhattan; Sept. 11 and Ground Zero

ORGANIZATION: Borough of Manhattan Community College; City University of New York; Pei Cobb Freed & Partners

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1108 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Aside From That, All Is Clear

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: A Chinese company defaulted on its bonds and was kicked off Nasdaq because it would not answer questions about its business. But its share price has risen 492 percent. Now the S.E.C. has halted trading. 

 BODY:
Things did not look good for shareholders of China Medical Technologies a few months ago. 
The company had defaulted on its bonds. Standard & Poor's cut the rating to D, as low as it can go, and then said it would no longer rate the company because it would not answer questions about its business. Nasdaq had a similar complaint when it suspended trading in the stock on Feb. 7, with the price -- once above $50 -- at $1.82. At the end of the month, Nasdaq delisted the shares, forcing them onto the over-the-counter market.
The medical device company, based in Beijing, incorporated in the Cayman Islands and traded in New York, faced class-action suits alleging accounting fraud and the use of fraudulent shell companies to make acquisitions.
Since then, there has not been any good news about China Medical, or at least none I could find. But shareholders who had faith were rewarded. By mid-June, the share price was above $5. On Wednesday, amid heavy volume, it reached $12. Yesterday it closed at $10.78. That is up 492 percent in less than six months. 
What seems to have happened is a classic short squeeze. The stock has been on and off the Regulation SHO list of companies with a large number of trades that did not settle properly. That is often a sign of naked shorting -- selling the stock short even though shares cannot be borrowed. Such shares are subject to being "bought in," with the short-seller having to pay whatever price is demanded. My guess is that it has been happening a lot. 
Today, the S.E.C. suspended trading in the stock. The news release stated:
The Commission temporarily suspended trading in the securities of China Medical because of questions that have been raised about the accuracy and adequacy of publicly disseminated information concerning, among other things, the status of the company's officers and directors, the accuracy of the company's financial statements and filings with the Commission, and the current financial condition of the company.
That pretty much covers everything a company is required to disclose.
The S.E.C. has the power to suspend for only 10 trading days. It will be interesting to see what happens on July 16, when the shares can resume trading. Will the short squeeze resume? Will more be known about whether this company -- whose offerings have been underwritten by such firms as Credit Suisse, UBS and Morgan Stanley -- has defrauded investors?

        
What We're Reading: Investing in Hogs
        
How Global Companies Take Aim at China
        
Putting China's Economic Power in Perspective
        
Facebook Debut: Who Blew It?
        
China and the Integrity of Accounting

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (90%); BONDS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); DELISTINGS (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (75%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%) China; Short Selling; stocks; Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Stocks and Bonds; Credit Suisse Group A.G; Morgan Stanley; Standard & Poor's Corp; Cayman Islands; China Medical Technologies; Credit Suisse Group A.G|CS|NYSE; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; accounting; Finance; Floyd Norris

COMPANY: CHINA MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%); FACEBOOK INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Credit Suisse Group A.G; Morgan Stanley; Standard & Poor's Corp

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (53%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%); FB (NASDAQ) (50%) Credit Suisse Group A.G; CS; NYSE; Credit Suisse Group A.G; CS; NYSE; Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (58%); SIC2835 IN VITRO & IN VIVO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) CHINA (96%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (76%) Cayman Islands; China

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1109 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: 'Soft Patch' on Jobs, With Election on Horizon

BYLINE: ECONOMIX EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: This week's job-creation projections from Moody's Analytics continue to point to a close presidential election, and come with indications of midyear weakness. 

 BODY:
With the unemployment report for June due in one week, and the general election a bit more than four months away, the job indicators for the pre-election season remain fragile, according to the latest weekly analysis from Moody's Analytics. 
Its projection for the average annual monthly job growth in the six-month period before the election is unchanged at 149,000 -- roughly in the middle of the range of 100,000 to 175,000 that historically points to a close race for an incumbent president. 
But on its Dismal Scientist blog this week, Moody's sees "another midyear soft patch, with clear signs of weakness in the job market extending into June." Uncertainty about the euro zone and the prospect of a "fiscal cliff" of budget cuts and tax increases in the United States without Congressional action by the year's end are weighing on businesses, it says. 
The Moody's post goes on to say:
Data over the past week added to concerns and prompted an adjustment to our forecast for the unemployment rate. We now expect the jobless rate will remain at 8.2%, unchanged for June; previously, we were looking for it to notch down to 8.1%. ...
We expect June's net increase in U.S. payrolls to be 125,000. Although significantly better than the 77,000 jobs added in April and the 69,000 added in May, the growth will not do much to boost confidence in the economy. Worries about a new recession are premature, but confidence must hold up for the recovery to continue.

        
Jobs Tracker Holds Steady
        
Jobs Forecast Shifts the Electoral Outlook
        
For Voters, It's the Job-Growth Trend That Counts
        
A Modestly Strong Batch of New Data
        
Jobs and the Election: A Weekly Tracker

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRENDS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); EURO ZONE (69%); TAX LAW (68%); BUDGET CUTS (54%) 2012 election; jobs; presidential election; Unemployment; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Moody's Corporation; Moody's Corporation|MCO|NYSE; Jobs and the Election

ORGANIZATION: Moody's Corporation

TICKER: Moody's Corporation; MCO; NYSE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1110 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: What Must Be Done Now to Save the Euro?

BYLINE: LAURA D'ANDREA TYSON


HIGHLIGHT: Europe's leaders and the European Central Bank must act aggressively and quickly to stabilize a perilous economic situation, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
This week's economic summit among European leaders has exceeded expectations. New ground has been broken in an agreement that would allow Europe's joint rescue funds to be used to recapitalize struggling banks in European Union member states and that would establish a single bank supervisory mechanism under the European Central Bank. 
Global markets have responded with initial relief to the agreement that is designed to stem a worsening banking crisis in the euro zone, a crisis that poses an immediate and existential threat to the euro. 
Although many details are still uncertain, the agreement appears to be an important step in the right direction. But much more remains to be done to put the euro on a sustainable path for the future and reverse Europe's slide into recession and stagnation.
The economic and political crises confronting Europe's leaders today are the result of more than three years of misdiagnosis and policy errors.
At the beginning of the crisis, Europe as a whole was in good financial health. Its current account was balanced, its government debt-to-gross domestic product ratio was lower than those of the United States and Japan and its total leverage ratio was about the same as in the United States.
Spain and Ireland were hailed for their fiscal rectitude, with far lower debt-to-G.D.P. ratios than Germany. Private investors were not worried about default risk on Spanish or Irish debt or about Italy's chronically sizable sovereign debt, which was largely held and serviced by Italy's high-saving citizens.
Deluded by the convergence of bond yields after the euro's introduction and overlooking the fact that Europe lacked both a lender of last resort and an integrated fiscal authority, investors fed a private-sector credit boom in Europe's less developed periphery countries, failing to recognize real estate bubbles in Spain and Ireland and the Greek government's slide into insolvency. 
When global growth slowed sharply and credit flows collapsed in the wake of the Great Recession, throughout the euro zone government revenues plummeted, governments were forced to socialize private-sector liabilities and government deficits soared. 
With the exception of Greece, the deterioration in public finances was a symptom of the crisis, not its cause. Moreover, the deterioration was predictable: the real stock of government debt soars in the wake of recessions caused by financial crises. (Federal government debt in the United States has also increased for the same reason.) 
But European leaders, spearheaded by Germany, diagnosed the problem as one of fiscal profligacy for which fiscal austerity is the essential and painful cure. According to the austerity logic, significant rapid reductions in government deficits are a precondition to restoring government credibility and investor confidence, stemming contagion, bringing down interest rates and restarting growth. 
Austerity has not worked; indeed, it has been counterproductive. In countries crushed by onerous austerity targets, growth and employment have fallen, along with government revenues. Austerity has undermined, not bolstered, market confidence. 
Investors, like voters, recognize that stagnation and high unemployment enlarge government deficits and debt in the short run. Markets have lost faith in the sovereign debt of Spain and Italy, and now even France is threatened. Contagion is apparent both in high government borrowing costs, driving solvent countries into insolvency, and in capital flight, driving solvent banks into insolvency. 
Both Greece and Portugal are snared in classic debt traps as the interest rates on their sovereign debt have soared beyond their growth rates by considerable margins, and Spain is on the brink. France, Italy and Spain now face considerably higher interest rates on their sovereign debt than Britain, although its fiscal position is considerably worse. 
Now Europe requires several complicated and politically contentious measures to stem the crisis and foster growth. 
First, Europe needs immediate measures to stabilize financial markets. This week's summit agreement - appears to be an important first step. It allows resources from the 500- billion- euro rescue fund, the European Stability Fund, to be used directly to recapitalize systemically important banks. 
Financially beleaguered national governments cannot do this, and lending them the funds to do so only aggravates their sovereign debt problems, as the recent bailout plan of the Spanish banks confirms. Euro-zone funds are essential to break the adverse feedback loop between sovereign debt and bank balance sheets at the national level and to stem deposit and capital flight from troubled banks. The agreement is designed to do this. 
The agreement also calls for the establishment of a Europewide supervisory authority under the European Central Bank to approve the use of rescue funds for bank recapitalization. Longer term, Europe needs a banking union with a unified regulatory and supervisory mechanism, a unified deposit insurance plan paid for by bank fees and resolution authority under the central bank's control.
The agreement also allows for the possibility that euro rescue funds can be used to purchase the sovereign debt and lower the borrowing costs of Italy and Spain - "virtuous" countries that are under speculative market attack as they struggle to adhere to the harsh deficit targets of Europe's fiscal compact.
If the euro-zone rescue fund proves insufficient for these purposes - as seems likely - new euro bonds jointly backed by all members of the European Union, including Germany, should be introduced to raise additional funds. Moral hazard is the major argument against such bonds, but moral hazard can be contained both by limiting the amount and duration of such bonds and by restricting their use to nations adhering to the fiscal compact and to banks subject to supervision by the European Central Bank. 
In the meantime, the European Central Bank can and should provide additional funding to ease the banking crisis through expansion of its existing long-term lending facility for banks and through possible "quantitative easing," or the expansion of the central bank's balance sheet to purchase bank and other private sector debt. 
According to the European Union treaty, the European Central Bank is precluded from purchasing the sovereign debt of member states, so it cannot serve as a lender of last resort for them, as the Federal Reserve can and does for the United States government. An optimal single-currency area requires a lender of last resort for its member states, and Europe does not have one. This is a major institutional void that undermines the euro's stability. 
But the European Central Bank does have authority to set its interest rate, and it should cut the rate to near zero to stimulate growth in the absence of inflationary pressure. 
Germany, with a modest fiscal deficit, record low interest rates on its government bonds and a huge current account surplus, primarily with its European partners, should also foster European growth through fiscal stimulus measures, including providing funds to increase euro-zone-wide infrastructure spending through the European Investment Bank and dedicated special project bonds. 
Germany emphasizes the importance of structural reforms for growth - but such reforms are supply-side measures that take time. Chancellor Angela Merkel appears to have forgotten that it took more than a decade and about two trillion euros of subsidies for structural reforms to make the former East Germany competitive with the rest of Germany. 
Right now, demand and access to credit are the main impediments to euro-zone growth. Moreover, structural reforms are harder to achieve in a contracting economy; they result in more transitional unemployment and wasted resources and they undermine political support. 
The liberalization of national restrictions on the service sector is probably the most powerful structural reform Europe could undertake, but even Germany is doing little in this politically sensitive area.
At this week's summit, Europe's leaders debated ambitious long-term plans for both a banking union and a fiscal union with central budgetary authority. Both kinds of unions are essential pillars for a sustainable euro in the future. 
Perhaps agreement on this long-term plan will provide political cover for Germany to support the short-term measures required now: broader uses for Europe's rescue funds, the issuance of euro bonds, more aggressive measures by the European Central Bank and a significant growth pact. 
Time is running out and immediate actions are required. The fate of the euro, the stability of global capital markets and the strength of the United States and global recoveries depend on what Europe's leaders decide.

        
The French Determination to Run the I.M.F.
        
How Richer States Finance Poorer Ones
        
U.S. Assets at Work, Unsupervised
        
The European Debt Crisis and the G-20 Summit Meeting
        
The 4-Trillion-Euro Fantasy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); RECESSION (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (87%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (72%); BANKING LAW (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); BONDS (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Angela Merkel; banking; banking regulation; Daily Economist; euro; euro zone; European Central Bank; European debt crisis; European Union; Laura D'Andrea Tyson; sovereign debt; Merkel, Angela; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Today's Economist

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%) European Central Bank

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (84%) Merkel, Angela

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (92%); GREECE (92%); SPAIN (92%); GERMANY (92%); ITALY (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1111 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Constitutional

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at the latest happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
The Supreme Court upheld the law overhauling the health care system, saying Thursday that its requirement that most Americans obtain insurance or pay a penalty was authorized by Congress's power to levy taxes, Adam Liptak reports. But the court also provided states with an option that could substantially limit the law's expansion of Medicaid, and rejected the notion that an individual mandate was justified by Congress's power to regulate interstate commerce.

        
The Republican-led House of Representatives voted to hold Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. in contempt of Congress on Thursday for failing to disclose internal Justice Department documents in response to a subpoena, Jonathan Weisman and Charlie Savage report. The decision to impose that sanction on a sitting member of the president's cabinet was the first in American history.

        
The Supreme Court's decision to uphold much of the health care law leaves intact President Obama's hopes of joining the ranks of Franklin D. Roosevelt, Lyndon B. Johnson and Ronald Reagan, Mark Landler writes. The judgment does little to settle the bitter debate over the role of government in people's lives, but it preserves Mr. Obama's status as a president who fundamentally altered the course of the country.

        
Mitt Romney and other Republicans are looking ahead for one remaining avenue of repealing the health care law: the ballot box. Though the ruling was a triumph for President Obama, he still faces the challenge of trying, once again, to sell the merits of the health care overhaul in the court of public opinion after largely failing in that task the first time around, Jeff Zeleny writes.

        
The Supreme Court decided that an expansion of Medicaid envisioned in the 2010 health care law is going to be an option for states, not a mandate, Robert Pear reports. Experts are split on whether most states will take the option.
 Happenings in Washington

        
The House is expected to consider legislation that would keep interest rates on student loans from doubling on July 1. A bipartisan Senate deal already fell into place on Tuesday.

        
The Early Word: Decision Time
        
The Early Word: Inquiries
        
The Early Word: Split
        
The Early Word: Polarized
        
The Early Word: Guinea Pig

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEDICAID (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); SUBPOENAS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); HISTORY (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); STUDENT LOANS (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); MITT ROMNEY (75%); ERIC HOLDER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1112 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2705 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES 
Ahead of Guilty Plea, F.B.I. Arrests Madoff's Brother | Peter B. Madoff was arrested on Friday more than three years after his brother, Bernard, confessed to running the largest Ponzi scheme in history.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation arrested Peter Madoff, 66, at his lawyer's office in Manhattan, according to an F.B.I. spokesman. He is expected to appear later on Friday in Federal District Court in Manhattan to plead guilty to criminal charges. The charges are likely to include falsifying documents, lying to regulators and filing false tax returns.
Peter Madoff was his brother's top deputy at Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities, serving as chief compliance officer and general counsel. Though he has not admitted to participating in his brother's Ponzi scheme, the guilty plea is expected to confirm that Peter Madoff enabled Bernard Madoff to cheat investors out of billions of dollars. 
DealBook 
Angry British Leaders Take Barclays' Chief Executive to Task | Robert E. Diamond Jr., the chief executive of Barclays, is again in the cross hairs of angry politicians and dissatisfied shareholders.
A day after the British bank agreed to pay $450 million to settle accusations that it tried to manipulate rates to benefit its own bottom line, top officials are calling for Mr. Diamond to provide a full account of what went wrong.
"People have to take responsibility for the actions and show how they're going to be accountable," David Cameron, Britain's prime minister, said at a European Union summit meeting in Brussels. It's very important that it "goes all the way to the top of the organization," he said.
DealBook 

        
Newspaper Calls for Resignation of Barclays Chief | The Financial Times writes in an editorial: "Behind the technical language, what has been exposed by British and American regulators is nothing less than a long-running confidence trick played on the public for personal and institutional advantage." As for Robert E. Diamond Jr., the chief executive of Barclays, the newspaper continues: "If he had an ounce of shame, he would immediately step down."
financial times
        
As Regulator Scores Record Fine, Support Emerges for Bigger Budget | After levying a $200 million fine against Barclays, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission is gaining support from lawmakers and officials for a budget increase.
DealBook 
DEAL NOTES
Charities Celebrate Wall Street Chiefs | Bloomberg Businessweek writes: "In the past two months more than a half dozen current and former bank chiefs have been honored in New York, including Bank of America's Brian Moynihan, JPMorgan Chase's Jamie Dimon, and Morgan Stanley's James Gorman."
John Thain, the head of the CIT Group who recently accepted an award from the Father's Day/Mother's Day Council, told the magazine: "The demonization of Wall Street and bankers is very much a function of the press and of Washington, and not much more broadly held."
bloomberg businessweek
Investors Treat Health Care Ruling as a Mixed Blessing | The New York Times reports: "Hospitals will gain millions of paying customers. Insurers, by contrast, could face crimped profits from restrictive rules. Medical device and pharmaceutical companies will bear new taxes and other higher payouts, but they were already expecting such costs. That, at least, was the immediate view of the impact of the Supreme Court's ruling Thursday that upheld the nation's health care overhaul."
new york times
A.I.G. Bets on its Brand | A.I.G., which renamed two insurance businesses to distance them from the press surrounding its bailout, now plans to restore its name and logo to its subsidiaries, The Wall Street Journal reports.
wall street journal
California City Files for Bankruptcy | Stockton, Calif., on Thursday became the largest American city by population ever to declare bankruptcy, after officials were unable to reach a deal with creditors to restructure the city's debt, Reuters reports.
reuters
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Brewer to Buy Remaining Stake in Grupo Modelo | Anheuser-Busch InBev has agreed to buy the half of Grupo Modelo it does not already own for $20.1 billion, the latest deal in the fast-consolidating global brewing industry.
DealBook 
Melrose Agrees to Buy German Utility Meter Manufacturer for $2.3 Billion | The British investment company has agreed to buy Elster Group, a German utility meter manufacturer, for $2.3 billion.
DealBook 
Micron Said to Agree to Buy Elpida Memory for $2.5 Billion | The semiconductor company Micron Technology is paying 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion) for Elpida Memory, a bankrupt Japanese rival, the Nikkei newspaper reported, according to Bloomberg News.
bloomberg news
Deal Slump Provides an Opening for Activists | The Financial Times reports: "With M.&A. activity down sharply in the first half of the year, activist investors have stepped up their involvement with companies, often agitating for splits or deals."
financial times
Murdoch Defends Newspaper Business as 'Viable' | Rupert Murdoch told The New York Times on Thursday that employees at News Corporation's newspapers shouldn't feel they were losing a safety net by splitting off from the entertainment company. "Dow Jones is a very viable company and The Wall Street Journal is a very viable newspaper," he said.
new york times
RIM Announcement Raises Fresh Concerns About its Future | Research in Motion, the struggling maker of the BlackBerry, announced a $518 million quarterly loss on Thursday and said that it would delay the release of a new line of phones that it still hopes will revive the BlackBerry brand, The New York Times reports.
new york times
Australian Department Store Reveals Takeover Interest | The Australian department store chain David Jones said on Friday it had been approached by a firm called EB Private Equity, which made an offer of about $1.67 billion, The Wall Street Journal reports.
wall street journal
INVESTMENT BANKING 
European Leaders Agree to Bail Out Banks | The New York Times reports: "Working through the night in the face of pressure from the embattled euro zone countries Italy and Spain, European leaders agreed early Friday to use the Continent's bailout funds to recapitalize struggling banks directly, according to the European Council president, Herman Van Rompuy."
new york times
Investment Banking Fees Fall Amid Europe's Crisis | According to Thomson Reuters data, global investment banks' income from fees fell by about 25 percent in the second quarter to reach the lowest level since early 2009, Reuters reports.
reuters
Goldman Sachs Said to Cut More Jobs | Reuters, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter, reports that Goldman cut "several dozen jobs" in New York, New Jersey and Salt Lake City, Utah, a city that Reuters recently said was the firm's "promised land."
reuters
Morgan Stanley Names New Director | Morgan Stanley said on Thursday that Robert H. Herz, a former chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, has been elected to its board of directors.
DealBook 
A $21.5 Million Exit Package for JPMorgan Executive | Ina Drew, JPMorgan Chase's former chief investment officer who stepped down after revelations about the bank's huge trading loss, has been allowed to take home about $21.5 million in stock and options, Bloomberg News reports, citing regulatory filings and estimates.
bloomberg news
Nomura to Cut Pay for Executives | Amid a government investigation into insider trading, Nomura Holdings said it would reduce pay for top executives, with the chief executive officer taking a 50 percent pay cut for six months, Bloomberg News reports.
bloomberg news
Jefferies Celebrates 50 Years | "Set alongside the industry's behemoths, with their hundreds of thousands of employees, trillions of dollars in assets and ubiquitous retail branches, Jefferies is still a tiddler with aspirations," The Economist writes. "But being small has its benefits, too."
economist
French Bank Chief Says Raising Capital Is 'Impossible' | Frederic Oudeahe, the chief executive of Societe Generale, told a forum in Shanghai on Friday that "investors lack confidence," adding: "Raising capital today is fundamentally impossible."
reuters
Demise of a German Bank | Bloomberg News reports that WestLB, "the 180-year-old German state-owned lender that gained notoriety by trying and failing to make it as a global investment bank, will cease operations today. Its demise is a lesson in hubris to its peers."
bloomberg news
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Bain Capital Said to Be in Talks for Italian Buyout | Bain is in exclusive talks to buy Rhiag, an Italian distributor of auto parts, from Alpha Associes, Reuters reports, citing unidentified people close to the transactions. A sale could value Rhiag at more than 500 million euros ($621 million), according to Reuters.
reuters
Private Equity Firms See a Brighter 2012 | A survey by professional services firm Rothstein Kass found that 77 percent of 293 private equity firms polled believe there will be more attractive investment opportunities this year than last.
DealBook 
3i to Cut Jobs and Close Offices | The British private equity firm 3i, facing criticism from investors, plans to cut over 160 jobs, or roughly a third of its staff, and to close offices in cities including Barcelona, Hong Kong and Shanghai, Reuters reports.
reuters
Goldman Raises $1.2 Billion to Buy Private Equity Stakes | Goldman Sachs is approaching a goal of $4 billion to $5 billion for a new fund that would buy private equity interests on the secondary market, Dow Jones reports.
dow jones
Private Equity Firm Said to Accuse Calpers of Racial Discrimination | Fortune reports that is has "obtained documents" showing that Centinela Capital Partners, a Los Angeles-based private equity firm, filed a grievance alleging that Calpers, the nation's biggest pension fund, "should be held liable for racial discrimination, breach of contract and fraud."
fortune
HEDGE FUNDS 
Paulson Talks Returns, Regret and Retirement in New Profile | Appearing on the forthcoming cover of Bloomberg Businessweek is a close-up of the hedge fund titan John A. Paulson, with a sticky note on his face that reads "The Big Loser."
DealBook 
Challenging Hedge Fund Managers' Expertise | The industry Web site aiCIO writes: "Investors must better distinguish between skill of hedge fund managers and their propensity to take on extra risk, according to Bryan Kelly, a professor of the University of Chicago."
aicio
Hedge Fund Expects a Profit on Greek Bonds | Adelante Asset Management, a London-based hedge fund, told Reuters that it could make a return of roughly 35 percent after selling Greek bonds that it bought at a deep discount.
reuters
Mason Capital Pressures Telus Over Ownership | The hedge fund Mason Capital Management asked Telus, the Canadian telecommunications company, to address an allegation by a rival in Canada that it had exceeded a limit on foreign ownership, The Vancouver Sun reports.
vancouver sun
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Coty Files to Go Public | Coty filed to go public on Friday, revisiting a strategic plan it had formed before attempting to buy Avon Products for $10.7 billion earlier this year.
DealBook 
ServiceNow Prices I.P.O. Above Expected Range | The enterprise software company ServiceNow raised $209.7 million, pricing shares at $18, in the first major technology I.P.O. since Facebook's, Reuters reports.
reuters
I.P.O.'s Raise Lowest Amount Since 2009 | Money raised in initial public offerings around the world fell 34 percent in the second quarter to $41.3 billion, the lowest second quarter since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
bloomberg news
S.E.C. Said to Consider Forcing Nasdaq to Upgrade Systems | The Wall Street Journal reports on the investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission into Nasdaq: "As part of the deepening inquiry, regulators are weighing demanding that Nasdaq agree to revamp its processes for developing, changing, testing and implementing the computer code used in initial public offerings and other exchange functions, according to people familiar with the investigation."
wall street journal
Instagram Adds Features for the Web | An update to Instagram's browser version is "a clear sign that Instagram is expanding beyond the phone," The Next Web writes.
the next web
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Twitter Shows Signs of Success in Mobile | The Wall Street Journal reports: "On most days, Twitter is now generating the majority of its revenue from ads shown to its users on mobile gadgets, rather than from ads on Twitter.com, company executives said. One key reason: People who see a Twitter ad on their phones are more likely to click or interact with it in some way, which is how Twitter gets paid for advertisements."
wall street journal
After Solyndra, a 2nd U.S.-Backed Solar Company Is Closing | The New York Times reports: "Abound Solar, a solar panel maker that received a $400 million loan guarantee from the federal government, announced on Thursday that it would file for bankruptcy amid plummeting prices and intense competition from Chinese manufacturers in the solar equipment market."
new york times
Brazil's Start-Up Baby Boom | Two Brazilian baby-product e-commerce competitors -- Baby and Bebestore -- have closed on new financing rounds.
DealBook 
Medical Records Start-Up Raises $34 Million | Practice Fusion, which offers an electronic platform for medical records, said it raised $34 million in a fund-raising round led by Artis Ventures, bringing its total financing to over $64 million, TechCrunch reports.
techcrunch
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
R.B.S. Said to Be Snared in Rate-Manipulation Crackdown | The Royal Bank of Scotland is set to be fined about 150 million pounds ($233 million) for a role in an interest rate-manipulation scandal that was said to be similar to that of Barclays, the Times newspaper of Britain reported, according to Reuters.
reuters
British Regulator Says Banks Improperly Sold Derivatives | The Royal Bank of Scotland, Barclays, the Lloyds Banking Group and HSBC agreed to compensate small and medium-sized businesses that a British regulator said were improperly sold derivatives intended to limit their exposure to interest rate movements, Bloomberg News reports.
bloomberg news
Cravath Names a New Leader | The New York law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore has elected C. Allen Parker as its next chief, succeeding Evan R. Chesler, who will become chairman.
DealBook 
Why Money Market Funds Resist New Rules | Floyd Norris writes in his column in The New York Times: "The very existence of the money market fund industry is a tribute to foolish regulation decades ago, when banks were prohibited from offering competitive rates on savings accounts. Now, with rates very low, it is almost impossible to make money running a money market fund, but the fund groups want to stay in the business because they do not want to lose customers to real banks or to other mutual fund companies."
new york times
JPMorgan's Models Said to Come Under Scrutiny | The Wall Street Journal, citing unidentified people close to the situation, reports on JPMorgan Chase: "The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the bank's primary regulator, has requested reviews of models that measure the possible effects of everything from trading losses to interest-rate moves."
wall street journal
Congress Looks to Tweak Rule for Corporate Pensions | The New York Times reports: "The highway bill that Congress is rushing to complete by Friday contains a measure that would let companies slow their pension contributions again. Because the contributions are tax-deductible, permitting smaller contributions would mean that companies take fewer tax deductions - and as a result, create more federal revenue."
new york times
Europe's Woes Take a Toll on Ford | Ford Motor, which until now has managed to avoid the losses that have weighed on its rivals, said on Thursday that "its total international losses would triple in the second quarter, with Europe accounting for the most of the loss," The New York Times reports. 
new york times
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); PONZI SCHEMES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); TAX FRAUD (78%); LAWYERS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); FUTURES (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (81%); BERNARD L MADOFF INVESTMENT SECURITIES (70%); MORGAN STANLEY (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (51%); CIT GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (93%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); MS (NYSE) (60%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); CIT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (50%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (50%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (50%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (92%); BRIAN MOYNIHAN (54%); JAMES GORMAN (54%); JOHN THAIN (54%); JAMES DIMON (54%); DAVID CAMERON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1113 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan Woos Foreign Investors in New Delhi

BYLINE: HEATHER TIMMONS


HIGHLIGHT: Afghan industries from cement to poultry farming are looking for foreign cash and partners. 

 BODY:
It was a standing-room-only crowd Thursday at the Taj Palace Hotel's Shahjehan Hall, as Afghan government officials and business executives wooed foreign investors at an all-day conference in New Delhi. 
Hundreds of businesspeople and diplomats were in the audience, including representatives from China, Iran, Kazakhstan and Turkey, as well as from multinational conglomerates, including General Electric, Exxon Mobil and JPMorgan Chase. 
Investment-led domestic economic growth will "ensure the economic stability of the country in the current period of transition" and in the coming years, Zalmai Rassoul, Afghanistan's minister of foreign affairs, told the crowd. 
Fahim Hashimi, the president of the Hashimi Group and director of international affairs for the Afghanistan Chamber of Commerce and Industries, expressed optimism about the country's development, saying, "From a decade of turmoil, conflict and mismanagement, to an emerging market, Afghanistan has come a long way." 
As the United States and Europe wind down their military presence in the country, the Afghan government is hoping to replace foreign aid with taxes and profits from domestic industry. So dependent is Afghanistan on external aid that in 2010, international assistance amounted to roughly 97 percent of the country's gross domestic product, according to a commonly cited World Bank estimate.
Thursday's conference, sponsored by the Confederation of Indian Industry, is part of India's recent increase in engagement with Afghanistan. 
Afghanistan's Ministry of Commerce distributed a booklet full of investment opportunities at the conference, led by a more than $10 billion pipeline project to deliver natural gas from Turkmenistan to both Pakistan and India. Other options included a $23 million cement plant in Jabal-e Seraj (the handout added that "any investment in the cement sector of Afghanistan would be welcomed"), a $6.6 million investment in saffron processing and a $5 million "poultry economic development package." 
Afghanistan is passing a number of laws designed to make the country friendly for foreign investment, said Prasoon Sadozai, the director of legal and regulatory affairs for Afghanistan's Ministry of Commerce and Industry, like allowing 100 percent ownership of shares in a company by foreign investors, eliminating export taxes on any goods made or assembled in Afghanistan and allowing foreign companies to roll over loses from one year to the next to offset taxes.
Bloomberg, Samsung and Sony have already registered their companies with Afghanistan's business registration board, he added. 
The country has no restrictions on foreign investment in any sector, can provide land in industrial parks at reduced rents and is building tax-free zones, Wafiullah Iftekhar, the director of the Afghanistan Investment Support Agency, told the crowd. 
Foreign attendees mentioned security and corruption as their biggest concerns about doing business in Afghanistan. But several seemed keenly interested in trying to secure a partner there. 
Kakizaki Shinsuke, the chief representative in India for Mitsui-Soko International, a Japanese logistics company, said he'd been trying to do business in India for a year and a half and found the competition tough. One way to jump start business is to "go first," he said, and Afghanistan presents that opportunity. He had already spoken to several Afghan logistics companies, and said he hoped to partner with one of them so they could use Mitsui-Soko's international network. 
Plenty of attendees from Afghanistan were seeking the same. 
Saba Sahar, in a glittery silver top, black headscarf and rhinestone-studded glasses, said she came from Afghanistan in search of investors for her film production company. "Afghanistan and India should work together to make films to show their common culture," she said through an interpreter. She said she was looking for someone to invest in films about social issues, including women's rights and violence against women. 
Ahmad Zubir Arian, internal audit manager of Afghanistan's Safi Group, said he came searching for mining companies to partner with his company. "The mining sector is a new thing in Afghanistan, and we want professional companies," he said. 
What about the American government's efforts to help Afghanistan grow its domestic economy? 
"They are, you know, trying," Mr. Arian said, "but I feel customs and traditions are very important." He'd prefer to find an Indian partner, he said. Indian companies and Indian people have a long relationship with Afghanistan, he said, and "we can easily understand each other." 
Questions from the floor after presentations ranged from the practical to the idealistic. "Yours is such a beautiful country," one man said, noting that was his impression only from flying over it. But, he said, the tourism sector has not yet been discussed. Would there be programs for developing that as well? 
"Ah, well ," Hazrat Omar Zakhilwal, Afghanistan's minister of finance, said with a heavy sigh. "Let me say there are four flights a day and I would like that to double," he said, adding that he hoped the planes would be full of tourists from India coming in, rather than Afghans going out for medical treatment. 
Security was widely discussed, both during presentations and privately. 
"Security is an issue," said M. Ayuob Omarzada, first secretary (economic) at the Afghanistan embassy in New Delhi, in an interview. "But Afghanistan is a good source, especially of minerals and mines. A lot of opportunity is there." 
In Afghanistan, Mr. Hashimi promised in his presentation, "you will not see a company closed because of security." But uncertainty is a "prominent challenge for investors," he said, adding "just like anywhere else in the world." 
Afghanistan has recently signed a number of partnership agreements with foreign governments including the United States, India and Britain, Mr. Iftekhar of the investment agency noted. "This will, inshallah, remove any uncertainties," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POULTRY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (69%); CEMENT MFG (68%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (68%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (67%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (66%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (64%); ARMED FORCES (53%) Afghanistan War (2001- ); Corruption (Institutional); Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Investments; Exxon Mobil Corporation; General Electric Company; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Samsung Group; Exxon Mobil Corporation|XOM|NYSE; General Electric Company|GE|NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (57%); COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (56%); MITSUI-SOKO CO LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Exxon Mobil Corporation; General Electric Company; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Samsung Group

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); XOM (NYSE) (57%); 9302 (TSE) (50%) Exxon Mobil Corporation; XOM; NYSE; Exxon Mobil Corporation; XOM; NYSE; General Electric Company; GE; NYSE; Exxon Mobil Corporation; XOM; NYSE; General Electric Company; GE; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS493110 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (50%); NAICS488320 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (50%); SIC4491 MARINE CARGO HANDLING (50%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%) INDIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); CHINA (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); TURKEY (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1114 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Anheuser-Busch InBev Buys Rest of Grupo Modelo, Maker of Corona Beer

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Anheuser-Busch InBev will pay $20.1 billion for the rest of Grupo Modelo, taking control of the maker of Corona Extra beer. 

 BODY:
11:40 p.m. | Updated 
Anheuser-Busch InBevagreed on Friday to buy the share of Grupo Modelo that it did not already own for $20.1 billion, concluding a multiyear effort to take full control of the maker of Corona Extra beer.
The deal will solidify Anheuser-Busch InBev's position as the world's biggest brewer and as one of the industry's most tenacious consolidators. The deal, the second-biggest in the company's history, will add Corona to a stable of brands that already includes Budweiser and Stella Artois.
The deal is one of the biggest announced transactions in recent months. Merger activity has largely slowed, as the confidence of corporate executives and boards has been shaken by the European fiscal crisis and the uncertain domestic economy.
If approved by shareholders, the deal will finally unite the two companies. They have shared a bond since 1993, when Anheuser Busch first took a stake in Modelo. It eventually built up a 50 percent economic stake in the Mexican brewer.
The combined company would have $47 billion in annual revenue, with operations in 24 countries and 150,000 employees. The merger is expected to generate about $600 million in annual cost savings. And it would give Anheuser-Busch InBev access to Mexico's fast-expanding domestic market.
"This transaction is a natural next step in the relationship," Carlos Brito, Anheuser-Busch InBev's chief executive, said in a telephone interview on Friday.
Those ties have frayed at times. When InBev purchased Anheuser Busch in 2008, Modelo argued that the deal broke contractual agreements that it had with the American beer maker. An arbitration panel ruled in Anheuser-Busch InBev's favor in 2010, eventually setting the stage for Friday's merger announcement.
Under the terms of the deal, Anheuser-Busch InBev will pay $9.15 a share, a 30 percent premium to the company's closing price on June 22, before the deal was reported.
The transaction will involve a number of steps. Modelo will absorb several subsidiaries, including Direccin de Fbricas, a local glass bottle manufacturer largely dedicated to the company, to help streamline its corporate structure.
To help secure the support of Modelo's controlling families, Anheuser-Busch InBev agreed to a number of steps that would preserve the Mexican brewer's identity. Modelo will continue to be based in Mexico City and will have a local board, while two of the company's directors will join its new parent's board.
Perhaps the most notable step is the sale of Modelo's 50 percent stake in Crown Imports, a joint venture with Constellation Brands that imports Corona into the United States. Constellation will buy the stake for $1.85 billion, in an effort to satisfy antitrust concerns.
While some analysts have raised questions about tough antitrust scrutiny, Mr. Brito argued that the Crown deal should soothe such fears. He pointed to examples of competitors sharing ties in creating certain products, like Pabst Blue Ribbon beer being brewed and distributed by MillerCoors.
"This kind of relationship is common in this industry," he said.
Anheuser expects to pay for the takeover through cash on hand and $14 billion in bank loans.
The deal is expected to close by the first quarter of next year.

        
Brewer to Buy Remaining Stake in Grupo Modelo
        
Anheuser-Busch InBev Is Said to Be Near a Deal for Grupo Modelo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BREWERIES (91%); MERGERS (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); FAMILY (73%); GLASS CONTAINER MFG (72%); APPROVALS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); JOINT VENTURES (68%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (63%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%) Anheuser-Busch InBev; Grupo Modelo; SABMiller; Anheuser-Busch InBev N.V; Foster's Brewing Group Ltd; Anheuser-Busch InBev N.V|BUD|NYSE; Food & Beverage; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH INBEV NV/SA (96%); GRUPO MODELO SAB DE CV (92%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Anheuser-Busch InBev N.V; Foster's Brewing Group Ltd; Grupo Modelo; SABMiller

TICKER: BUD (NYSE) (96%); ABI (BRU) (96%); GMODELO (BMV) (92%); STZ (NYSE) (50%) Anheuser-Busch InBev N.V; BUD; NYSE

INDUSTRY: SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (96%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (96%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (50%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (50%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (50%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (50%)

PERSON: CARLOS BRITO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (55%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1115 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: White House Releases Staff Salary Report

BYLINE: MARK LANDLER


HIGHLIGHT: The annual report, submitted to Congress on Friday, shows that having the ear of the president does not mean bringing home a huge paycheck. 

 BODY:
The White House submitted to Congress a list of its staff members and their salaries on Friday, giving people in Washington their annual opportunity to marvel that some of the nation's most powerful government officials are paid roughly the same as first-year associates at big New York law firms.
The most senior staff members - including the White House chief of staff, Jacob J. Lew, and the national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon - are paid $172,200 a year. President Obama's personal aide, Anita J. Breckenridge, earns $95,000, a salary that was disclosed in April, when the White House confirmed that she had a higher tax rate than Mr. Obama.
The president and First Lady Michelle Obama previously reported adjusted gross income of $789,674 in 2011, and paid about 20 percent of it in federal taxes. The disparity in their tax rates came to light just as Mr. Obama was promoting the Buffett Rule, a minimum tax for the wealthiest Americans, named after the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett. Mr. Buffett said his secretary, like Mr. Obama's, paid a higher tax rate than he did.
The report provides the titles and salaries of staff members in the domestic policy council and the national economic council, as well as White House office employees. In a statement, the White House said that "consistent with President Obama's commitment to transparency, this report is being publicly disclosed on our Web site as it is transmitted to Congress."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW PRACTICE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%) The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); WARREN BUFFETT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2012



1116 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Announcing ... the Winner of India Ink's Finance Minister Contest

BYLINE: VIVEK DEHEJIA


HIGHLIGHT: The best of readers' suggestions to put the Indian economy back on track. 

 BODY:
On Wednesday, India Ink invited you to submit your "application" to be the next finance minister of India. Well, the entries are in, and we at India Ink have been sifting through what you sent us. You may read all of them in the "Comments" section at the end of the original article.
Some of you, perhaps responding to the tenor of our invitation, sent in replies that can best be described as tongue in cheek. Sachi Mohanty of India told us that he'd sent in his application to "The Family" and couldn't reveal it to us. Mr. Mohanty presumably had in mind the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty, which has held power in India for the majority of years since India's independence in 1947.
Mitra from Brisbane suggested that Sonia Gandhi, the current head of the clan and chairwoman of the governing United Progressive Alliance, should be forced to take an introductory course in economics at a "nearby university." (That would rule out Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada, where I have taught first-year principles of economics over the years.)
A number of readers made suggestions, which while laudable, would realistically be beyond the purview, and power, of any finance minister. Girid Krishna from New York City said: "Make our economic institutions more inclusive." Another commentator from India, calling himself or herself only "Reader," advocated making "every politician, company and citizen accountable for their actions." A. Kapoor from New Delhi proposed to "banish corruption."
Some readers lamented the possible political constraints a finance minister may face. "RSB" from West Orange, New Jersey, opined that no finance minister would be able to do the job because of the interference of Mrs. Gandhi and her son, Rahul Gandhi, although he or she used more disparaging language to describe them.
On a more philosophical note, Ramesh Raghuvanshi from Pune observed that the challenge of a finance minister is to take a "stern decision" without "hurting" the people. Raj Phalpher from Toronto pointed to "rampant corruption" as the root of India's difficulties, suggesting further that this in turn was driven by "social inequality."
Yet other readers, while hewing to the spirit of the contest, fell short of, or exceeded, the contest requirement of submitting three to five suggestions. That left us with about a half-dozen or so serious applications to scrutinize, which we've just concluded doing.
And the winner is Narahari Rao of Houston, Texas. Mr. Rao gave us exactly five suggestions, and they were all well-conceived, smart and, importantly, at least within shooting distance of being feasible to attempt. If actually implemented, they stand a decent chance of restoring investor confidence and helping to put the Indian economy back onto a higher growth trajectory, which is all that could reasonably be expected of any finance minister in the current economic and political climate in India and given the state of the global economy.
Mr. Rao's specific suggestions include: cutting the income tax rate, but broadening the tax base, to stimulate the economy; lowering corporate tax rates to provide a boost to investment and growth; opening up foreign direct investment in multibrand retail (a decision taken, then reversed, by the outgoing finance minister, Pranab Mukherjee); setting up more special economic zones to encourage manufacturing; and issuing "infrastructure bonds," dedicated to improving the quality of infrastructure in medium-sized Indian cities.
Congratulations, Mr. Rao! Send your mailing address to IndiaInk@nytimes.com and a copy of Mr. Mukherjee's book "Challenges Before the Nation" will be sent to you in Texas.

        
Reserve Bank Holds Interest Rates Steady to Fight Inflation
        
Don't Count India Out Just Yet
        
India Feels Pressure as Growth Rate Is Worse Than Predicted
        
India's Growth Slows to 5.3 Percent
        
How Is India's Economic Slowdown Affecting You?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TRENDS (60%) Economy; finance minister; India; Mukherjee, Pranab; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: PRANAB MUKHERJEE (92%); SONIA GANDHI (79%) Mukherjee, Pranab

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (75%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (51%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (75%) INDIA (99%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2012



1117 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Health Care: Solidarity vs. Rugged Individualism

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: The debate over the health care mandate has crystallized two approaches to a fundamental question, an individual&#8217;s responsibility for the welfare of others, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
For over a year, Americans have debated the implication of the following sentence for the Affordable Care Act: "The Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several states, and with the Indian tribes." It is known in the vernacular as the commerce clause.
In the coming week, the commentariat will debate what this sequence of letters means among English-speaking people: "p-e-n-a-l-t-y." Because, as an immigrant, I am still struggling with the English language, I shall absent myself from that debate. 
Chief Justice John Roberts was the deciding vote on the decision to view the "penalty" to be imposed on Americans who disobey the mandate to have health insurance as a form of tax and, on that basis, declared the mandate in the health care act to be constitutional.
The penalties under the act amount to $695 per year per person (up to a maximum of $2,085 per family), or 2.5 percent of household income, which will be phased in during 2014-16. There are exemptions for individuals or families for whom these penalties would be a financial hardship.
Given these relatively low penalties, one would predict that many younger and healthier Americans will choose to remain uninsured and pay the penalties rather than insure at the community-rated premiums that force them to subsidize the health care of sicker Americans. 
 While the federal subsidies toward the purchase of private health insurance through the state exchanges will mitigate this effect - by substantially lowering the net premium payable by lower-income people - healthy, higher-income people without the benefit of subsidies are likely to choose just to pay the penalty, knowing that they can avail themselves of community-rated coverage in case of serious illness.
Viewed from that perspective, one could also construe the penalty under the mandate as something approximating the average per-capita actuarial cost that such individuals might impose as a group on hospitals. Such expenses - for what is known as "uncompensated care" - arise when patients without coverage are treated and released with unpaid bills. This supports the notion that the penalty is in effect a tax. (And perhaps one whose revenues should be directed back to such hospitals, as is the case with the Disproportionate Share program for hospitals that serve the poor in large numbers.)
In essence, the struggle over the mandate is merely part of this country's struggle over a fundamental moral question: to what extent must I be my poorer brothers' and sisters' keepers in health care? Americans are far from united in their response to this question.
There are basically three approaches to forcing healthier and wealthier citizens to be their poorer brothers' and sisters' keepers in health care.
1.A tax-financed, government-run social insurance plan (Medicare, Medicaid, Canada, Taiwan, Korea or Japan) or purely socialized medicine (the National Health Service in Britain, or the Veterans Health Administration in the United States).
2.Private health insurance with community-rated premiums and guaranteed issue, with government subsidies toward insurance premiums paid by individuals on a means-tested basis (Germany, Switzerland and the Affordable Care Act of 2010).
3.Private insurance with actuarially fair premiums (based on the health status of individuals), with government subsidies set so that the net out-of-pocket and premium costs borne by the household cannot exceed X percent of household income, where X itself may rise with income.
I am not aware that the latter approach has been tried in practice, perhaps because its administrative cost might be high.
Under any of these approaches, however, many citizens would be forced to subsidize, either with taxes or premiums, the health care of others. Is that fair to libertarians, whose theory of social justice holds the sanctity of justly acquired private property to be the overarching value? They will balk at this coercion as ipso facto "unjust." Libertarians do believe in private charity (ideally not tax-deductible charity) and are probably often charitable, but not through coerced transfers.
So what could be done to let libertarians enjoy the freedom they seek? Here is my idea of an approach.
Let us set up two distinct systems for health care within our nation. Call one the Social Solidarity system and the other the Libertarian system. Ask young people - at age 25 or so - to choose one or the other.
People joining the Social Solidarity system would know that they will be asked to subsidize their less fortunate fellow citizens in health care through taxes or premiums or both. They would also know, however, that the community will take care of them, and they will not go broke, should serious illness befall them.
People choosing the Libertarian system would not have to pay taxes to subsidize other people's health care, and they would pay actuarially fair health insurance premiums - low for healthy people and high for sicker people.
Libertarians, however, would not be allowed to come into the Social Solidarity system, unless they were so pauperized as to qualify for Medicaid. Hospitals would have every right to use tough measures to make them pay their medical bills in full, to prevent freeloading at the expense of others.
Furthermore, care would have to be taken to prohibit the kind of estate planning that now often permits well-to-do individuals to take advantage of Medicaid benefits.
Whenever I offer this proposal in health policy debates, I am told that it is unfair to ask people to make such momentous life-cycle decisions at such a young age. 
I thought so, too, until I saw young Marines come home from the battlefield. By joining the Marines - or any branch of the armed forces - young people typically face four years of active duty (and often several more years in the Reserves) in which they risk being maimed or killed. 
If we routinely ask 18-year-olds to make such momentous decisions and stick by them, why could we not ask 25-year-olds to choose between a life of social solidarity or rugged individualism?

        
Health Reform, the Reward to Work and Massachusetts
        
Older Workers Could Benefit if Companies Drop Insurance
        
From Physician Glut to Physician Shortage
        
Awaiting the Supreme Court's Health Care Ruling
        
Reaction to the Final Hearing on the Health Law

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (87%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Libertarianism (US Politics); Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Roberts, John G Jr; Supreme Court; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (86%) Roberts, John G Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2013



1118 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Looking for Patient Bond Buyers

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
LONDON -- As Europe slouches toward a monetary union that aims to force euro area governments to cede control over their banks and budgets, a crucial question remains unanswered: how to persuade investors to buy, and hold for the long term, the bonds of at-risk economies like Italy and Spain.
Both countries have debt and deficit levels that are no worse, and in some cases better, than those of Britain, Japan and the United States. But because they cannot devalue their currencies and must instead impose growth-sapping economic measures to regain competitiveness, their bonds have traded as if their economies are near insolvent. Meanwhile, the securities of debt-racked Britain, for example, are snapped up with abandon.
It is a paradox that lies at the heart of the European debt crisis. On Friday at its most recent summit meeting, Brussels took a halting first step to addressing this issue on a permanent basis. Euro zone leaders proposed that Europe's current and future rescue facilities might buy Italian and Spanish bonds as long as these countries fulfilled Germany's austerity demands and met debt and deficit targets. The market, expecting more waffling, jumped and the yields on 10-year Spanish and Italian bonds dropped sharply as investors celebrated the prospect that Europe might become a buyer of last resort of its beaten-down bonds. 
Still, Friday's euphoria notwithstanding, economists and market participants remain doubtful that the bond market fears can be permanently assuaged until the European Central Bank intervenes with the force and conviction shown by its peers in the United States and Britain.
Paul De Grauwe, a Belgian economist at the London School of Economics, says he believes that the latest step will not be enough. Mr. De Grauwe has written extensively on how the cycle of fear and panic in the bond markets is pushing countries that may not need a bailout to ask for one.
The euro zone's temporary bailout fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, which has only 248 billion euros at its disposal and must first raise the money on the bond market, does not have the firepower to convince skittish investors that Europe is serious, he said. Italy and Spain alone have a total of nearly 2.5 trillion euros in sovereign bonds outstanding.
Mr. De Grauwe proposes instead, that the European Central Bank announce that it will be an aggressive buyer of Spanish or Italian bonds until the spread -- or the difference between the yields on these bonds and benchmark German bonds -- reaches a certain level, say 300 basis points, compared with the recent level of 500 basis points and above.
''You would then have a floor on bond prices and it would be attractive for investors to buy Spanish bonds again,'' said Mr. De Grauwe.
His most recent paper claims that the Spanish and Italian bond rout has been driven more by the psychology of fear than hard and true economic numbers.
''The E.F.S.F. does not have the credibility given its resources,'' Mr. De Grauwe said. ''What you need are the unlimited resources of a central bank.''
Such a forceful approach has been resisted by Germany, the bank's largest shareholder, on the basis that countries would not proceed with necessary reforms. It is also true that the E.C.B. has intervened in the markets before and is said to own close to 150 billion euros of weak euro zone country bonds.
The buying has had little effect, though, because the numbers have been relatively small and because the operations have been done mostly in secret, largely mitigating their effect.
If the bank were to set an open target, in the same vein that Switzerland's central bank did last year when it shocked markets by declaring that it would limit the increase of the Swiss franc by intervening at a certain level, then perhaps bond investors would take heed.
Instead, after the Greek debt restructuring and the Spanish bank bailout, foreign investors have been sellers of Spanish and Italian bonds, fearing that as the yields increase to near 7 percent and above, so does the risk that these countries will run out of money -- even though the raw numbers would argue the opposite.
Italy, for example, had a primary surplus in 2011 of 1.1 percent of gross domestic product, meaning its budget is more than balanced if one takes away interest payments. And Spain's debt last year was 68 percent of its G.D.P. -- lower than Germany's and France's. Still, problems are severe in both countries: a banking collapse that required a 100 billion euro bailout in Spain and chronic stagnation and higher debt in Italy.
Nevertheless, as Mr. De Grauwe would have it, Spain and perhaps even Italy could be forced into a bailout at some point because investors are fixated on the notion that, because they are in the euro zone, they will not have time and flexibility to make the necessary changes.
Christopher Marks, the global head of debt capital markets at BNP Paribas, argues that this insolvency fear is being fanned by a new breed of short-term investors who have entered the market in the last year or two and have become the dominant voice, arguing loudly that Spain and Italy are destined to fail -- and making investment bets to that effect by either selling short the bonds or buying credit-default swaps.
The result is heightened volatility, lack of liquidity and everclimbing yields -- the bond market equivalent of fear -- as longer-term core investors like pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and insurance companies have stopped buying these securities.
''The traditional buyers of these bonds will return -- but only when there is a decrease in volatility and the yield,'' said Mr. Marks.
As to whether this latest promise by Europe to use the E.F.S.F. and its successor entity to intervene will make a long-term difference, Mr. Marks remains cautious.
As always, details on how Europe would intervene in the bond markets were scant, outside of a statement in which Brussels said it would ''do what is necessary to ensure financial stability in the euro area,'' by deploying the bailout vehicles. And that there would need to be a memorandum of understanding between the country in question and Europe regarding conditions to be met.
In another concession to private sector creditors, Brussels said that loans made to Spain via the European Stability Mechanism, the successor bailout vehicle to the E.F.S.F., would not be considered senior to the claims of bond investors -- thus easing fears of a debt restructuring and making Spanish bonds more attractive.
Mr. Marks considers the summit meeting agreement ''a short-term palliative.'' He says he believes that the bailout funds' ability to intervene with maximum effect will be tested sooner rather than later.
Which gets to Mr. De Grauwe's point: until the E.C.B. can convince investors that it is truly backing the bonds of these countries -- and that it can shock and awe, beyond just offering cheap, long-term loans -- investors will keep calling Europe's bluff.
''It's like a general saying that he will win a war by minimizing shooting,'' Mr. De Grauwe said. ''It just doesn't work.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders in Barcelona point at computer screens during a Spanish bond auction. Rates have continued to rise. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBERT GEA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); EURO (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (58%) CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%) EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); BELGIUM (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1119 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: CUNY Building Nearly Ready 11 Years After 9/11 Loss

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
It took much less time to build the second Fiterman Hall than it took to tear down the first one.
Construction began on the new, 17-story, $325 million Fiterman Hall of the Borough of Manhattan Community College in 2009. It is to start receiving students and faculty members this fall, making it a three-year project, more or less.
The old, 15-story Fiterman Hall was critically damaged on Sept. 11, 2001. Eight years passed before it was demolished. The process was plagued by protracted financing battles, debates over the scope of reconstruction, intricate precautions against contamination from potentially toxic materials and the general turf warfare at ground zero. 
Meanwhile, students attended some classes in a trailer camp hastily assembled in 2001 alongside the main building on West Street as a temporary measure. The college, a unit of the City University of New York, currently has about 24,200 students, an increase of about 50 percent over the enrollment in 2001.
The trailers were finally closed this month. Asked if he would like - in his secret heart - to douse the empty trailers with gasoline and set them ablaze in a kind of exorcism rite, Antonio Perez, the president of the college, replied, ''That would be arson.''
He did not say, ''No.''
It was in 2004 that Dr. Perez declared that Fiterman Hall ''has to be rebuilt soon.'' As he led a tour of the new Fiterman Hall two weeks ago, he gave the impression of a man who believed it may have been worth the wait.
The new Fiterman Hall will offer something that has been in short supply at the college: ample space outside and around classrooms for students to socialize, study and simply hang out. ''This will be the first time we can give our students a college experience,'' Dr. Perez said. ''They've been stuck in a box and we've asked them to come in all hours of the day and on the weekends.'' Soon, he said, they will have double-height atrium lounges, a multilevel quiet study area and a ground-floor cafe overlooking Silverstein Family Park, in front of 7 World Trade Center.
Faculty members will get something, too: private offices. ''The idea of new furniture is going to be greatly appreciated,'' said G. Scott Anderson, the vice president for administration and planning.
The long delay actually served the project's interest. Because the economic turmoil that began in 2008 has forced private developers to scale back their building projects, the cost of labor and materials has come down. ''Five years ago, we didn't have enough money to get above the fourth floor,'' Mr. Anderson said. Now, the college's money can be stretched far enough to purchase terrazzo floors for public areas.
Designed by Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, Fiterman Hall is unmistakable in the ensemble of ground zero buildings with its red brick facade. It is sure to draw visitors to its art gallery, Dr. Perez said. Given the tremendous pedestrian traffic that already courses (or shuffles) along nearby Vesey Street, Fiterman Hall will almost certainly become a kind of public front door to the college, whose enormous main building is four blocks north.
More than 70 percent of the cost of Fiterman Hall was financed by city and state matching funds, city appropriations and federal grants. About 20 percent was met by insurance proceeds. The project was overseen at the university level by Iris Weinshall, the vice chancellor for facilities planning for CUNY. The Hunter Roberts Construction Group is the construction manager and general contractor.
Of the building's 17 floors, three are exclusively mechanical, leaving 14 for the college's use, with a total of just over 390,000 square feet. (The old Fiterman Hall had 375,000 square feet.) Ten floors are to be ready for occupancy in the fall by the accounting, business management and computer information science departments. The music and art department and the ethnic studies department will have to wait a few months longer, but music students will get a 2,600-square-foot rehearsal hall with a view of the new World Trade Center and a suspended floor for better acoustics.
And the trailers? They're far too valuable in the overcrowded CUNY system to be discarded. Their next stop, Dr. Perez said, may be Staten Island College.
The new Fiterman Hall is already becoming well enough known to attract critics. Dr. Perez told of a woman passing by who was overheard recently by a Hunter Roberts employee deploring the new structure. ''It looks like a school,'' she complained.
The contractor replied, ''Well, it is a school.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A spiral staircase, still under construction, runs through the new Fiterman Hall of the Borough of Manhattan Community College.
The hall, in brick
Silverstein Family Park, right front
 and 7 World Trade Center, left. Slide show: nytimes.com/cityroom. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); ARSON (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1120 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: A Mortgage Rate Beginning With a 3

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
Mortgage rates have never looked this good. They are at about 3.81 percent for a second week, a record low. But who gets that rate? What does it actually take to secure a mortgage rate that begins with the enviable number 3?
One mortgage broker joked the other day that it required ''a good mortgage broker and a prayer.''
But in reality, the borrower tends to look a lot like Javier Arau, who refinanced his $265,000 mortgage earlier this week at 3.5 percent. He and his wife, Kelley, live in a two-bedroom co-op in the Jackson Heights section of Queens. They have a respectable set of credentials, yet they are not entirely unattainable for reasonably employed people either. They have no debt, with the exception of about $30,000 in student loans. They have about 20 percent in home equity, and Mr. Arau said they considered themselves savers. 
By getting out of their original mortgage, which carried a 6.25 percent rate, their monthly payment will drop by nearly $600 to $1,200. ''Having $600 less to deal with each month will be a huge relief,'' said Mr. Arau, who also has two young daughters. ''It's probably going to pump itself back into my business and give us a little bit of breathing room.'' (He said they paid about $2,000 to reduce the original rate they were offered, or 3.75 percent, because they knew they planned to stay in their apartment for several more years.)
Still, qualifying for that rate -- actually, qualifying for a mortgage at all -- required a bit of patience. The couple, both in their mid-30s, wanted to refinance a few years ago, but their mortgage broker told them at the time that they would probably be turned down. The earnings of a freelance saxophonist and a part-time prekindergarten teacher were too inconsistent to pass muster with the banks. Since then, however, Mr. Arau has opened a music school, the New York Jazz Academy, and has been able to generate a consistent stream of income for two years.
So qualifying for the best rates is not impossible, as long as you have a job with steady income that's easy to document. Of course, millions of people aren't that fortunate.
While lending standards are considerably tighter than they were during the anything-goes days of the housing boom, some mortgage brokers and lenders said they believed the rules were still lenient, at least in some ways, including the amount of total debt you're allowed to carry. The much greater challenge, they say, has become documenting your income and every bit of information on your application, down to the last $200 your mother sent you for your birthday.
''What's tougher today is the level of scrutiny and documentation and analysis and reverification around assets, income, employment and appraisals,'' said Bob Walters, chief economist at Quicken Loans. ''Lenders are terrified, literally terrified, of repurchases. What that means is if a lender makes a mistake, or there's a difference in opinion, and they close the loan and it goes into default, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac could require them to repurchase the loan.'' Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are the two government agencies that buy or guarantee about two-thirds of all new mortgages.
While one set of factors influences your overall ability to qualify, another overlapping set helps determine your interest rate. To qualify, borrowers seeking a conventional loan -- typically $417,000 or less, or up to $625,500 in certain higher-cost areas -- generally need to be approved by Fannie or Freddie's automated underwriting engines used by brokers and lenders.
The formula is a bit of a black box, and some lenders may layer on their own stricter requirements. But generally speaking, the agencies and lenders look at your credit score, income, employment history, liquid assets, down payment, property value, type of property -- a single-family home versus a multifamily, for instance -- and how much money you have left after closing. Fannie generally wants two months of housing payments in the bank, brokers said, which I found surprisingly low though banks sometimes require more.
With the more conservative standards, the average borrower today has a significantly stronger financial profile than at the height of the boom. The average FICO credit score on a new Fannie or Freddie Mac mortgage is about 765, up from about 720 in 2006, according to Inside Mortgage Finance. On loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration, the average score has increased to 700 from about 680 in 2006.
But what interest rate you receive will be strongly influenced by the strength of your credit combined with how much equity have in your home, numbers that have derailed many deals or forced families to pay a higher rate. Your equity stake depends on the property's assessed value. So a disappointing appraisal could mean you'll have to pay a higher rate unless you come up with more cash at the closing.
For the week ending Thursday, the average rate on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was 3.66 percent along with a fee of 0.7 percent of the mortgage amount, or a rate of 3.81 percent with no fee, according to Freddie Mac. That's the lowest level since the agency began tracking the numbers in 1971, and Freddie Mac said, probably ever. Rates stood at 4.51 percent at this time last year.
To secure the absolutely lowest rates, you generally need to have a credit score of 740 or better and to make a down payment of 25 percent or more (or have that much in home equity if you're refinancing), preferably in a single-family house. That said, you will probably only pay a tiny bit more with at least 20 percent in home equity. Those with a credit score of 720 to 739 will also pay slightly more, but not that much, brokers said, as long as they also meet the general approval standards.
But if you're financing a much smaller amount of your home's value and have a lower credit score, you may still be able to qualify for the same low rate as someone with a higher score. ''Say you have a 700 score but you are only financing 50 percent of the home's value,'' said Mark Maimon, director of sales at Universal Mortgage in Brooklyn. ''You might get the same rate as someone who has an 800 score doing 75 percent financing.''
Someone with a 620 credit score and 20 percent in home equity can expect to pay a rate that's nearly 4.4 percent, depending on the lender, compared to a person with a score of 740 or higher and an identical equity stake (or the person with the lower score can pay the lender 2.75 percent of the loan amount to receive a much lower rate), experts said. But as your score decreases, the two agencies want to see either a large down payment or a lot of money left in the bank. Otherwise, you may not qualify at all.
That's why it's no surprise that so many more borrowers have turned to the Federal Housing Administration's loan program, which is much more lenient. ''At a FICO 620, there is no penalty which drives the rates higher, and a borrower can have as small an equity position as 3.5 percent,'' said Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH.com, a mortgage information Web site, though the loans typically carry other fees. ''Costs may be higher but the interest rate remains at rock bottom.''
There are other reasons rates on traditional mortgages may not be as low as advertised. After the housing market collapsed, Fannie and Freddie began charging extra fees for mortgages that they insured or bought for a variety of reasons. Fannie, for instance, levies a fee of 0.75 percent of the loan amount on people buying condominium apartments if the borrower has less than 25 percent in equity.
Even if you do qualify for the best rates, be prepared to deal with all sorts of rules that will require some work. And there are still entire groups of people who will have a difficult time. It's much easier to sail through the entire process, for instance, if you receive a paycheck. But people who are self-employed, or who receive a large portion of their income through commissions and bonuses, are likely to have a more difficult time. ''If you are self-employed and your net income decreased from 2010 to 2011, even if it's 2 or 3 percent, it's an automatic rejection,'' said Fred Glick, owner of U S Loans Mortgage, a brokerage based in Philadelphia.
But even people with easily documented income will probably leave the approval process with a story or two to tell. Mr. Maimon recalls a bank that required proof of where a $25 bank deposit came from. In cases with other requests on the source of deposits, he asked the lender to simply disregard that money and qualify the applicant on their other assets. But this lender wouldn't do it.
''There is no common sense or reason left in underwriting,'' Mr. Maimon said. ''As an applicant, you have to roll with the punches and give the banks what they ask for. When you try to dodge it, then they just ask for more.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Javier Arau refinanced his apartment in New York City, receiving a mortgage with a 3.5 percent interest rate. (B1)
 Kelley and Javier Arau with Juliet, 4, and Maya, 7. Refinancing out of a 6.25 percent mortgage saved them nearly $600 a month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHART: Historically Low Rates: 30-year fixed mortgage rate, annual averages. (Source: Freddie Mac) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE RATES (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); LOAN BROKERS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1121 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Confidence Fell in June, But Business Picked Up

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Reports released Friday showed a mixed picture of the economy, with consumers still feeling pinched but business activity picking up.
Confidence among American consumers declined in June to the lowest level this year as they grew more pessimistic about prospects for the economy. In addition, consumer spending stalled in May as slower job gains and a lack of wage growth prompted Americans to cut back. 
But another survey showed that business activity expanded in June at a faster pace than expected.
The final numbers for the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment fell to 73.2 this month from 79.3 in May. The gauge was projected to hold at the preliminary reading of 74.1, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Unemployment exceeding 8 percent for 40 consecutive months is limiting wage growth and restraining household spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the economy. At the same time, Europe's debt crisis is prompting volatility in the stock market, making Americans feel less wealthy.
Estimates for the Michigan confidence measure ranged from 72 to 76, according to the Bloomberg survey. The June decline was the first in 10 months. The index averaged 64.2 during the last recession and 89 in the five years before the 18-month economic slump that ended in June 2009.
A Commerce Department report on consumer spending showed purchases unchanged, the weakest since November. Revised figures for April showed a weak rise of just 0.1 percent, smaller than initially reported. The median estimate of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for no change.
''Consumers are struggling with a lack of income growth, and the consequence is spending is suffering,'' said Ward McCarthy, chief financial economist at Jefferies & Company in New York, who forecast stagnant spending. ''The decline in gasoline prices, especially if it continues, will provide some relief going forward, but income growth is the impediment right now.''
Incomes climbed 0.2 percent for a second month in May, matching the median projection in the Bloomberg survey. The figure was helped by rental and proprietors' incomes. Wages and salaries were unchanged in May, the weakest in six months, after a 0.1 percent rise.
Adjusting consumer spending for inflation, which renders the figure used to calculate gross domestic product, purchases rose 0.1 percent for a second month.
A measure of business activity, however, showed a surprise in expansion in June. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago said Friday that its business activity barometer increased to 52.9 from 52.7 in May. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between growth and contraction. Economists had projected the purchasing managers' gauge would decline to 52.3, according to the median of 51 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.
The report contrasts with other regional figures this month that showed manufacturing was cooling.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Personal Income: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (67%); EURO CRISIS (67%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (84%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (65%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (84%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1122 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Savings Goal: Emergencies

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
Nearly half of Americans say they lack enough emergency savings to cover three months of expenses, according to a new survey from Bankrate.com.
Still, Bankrate noted that a similar poll taken in 2006 found that 61 percent of Americans lacked a three-month cushion. So the recent findings suggest that the financial crisis persuaded more Americans of the importance of savings. 
There's room for progress, though. The general rule of thumb is that you need a cushion of at least six months. But only a quarter have saved that much, about the same as a year ago.
The telephone survey was conducted June 7 to June 10 by Princeton Survey Research Associates International. The survey included 1,000 adults, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4 percentage points.
Have you managed to save at least three months' of savings? How? ANN CARRNS
COMMENTS I have an emergency fund that should pretty much get me through a year. I've done it by being really, really frugal, especially over the past three years, and putting away 25 percent of my gross. Honestly, though, I've been able to maintain it because I've been lucky enough not to need it. A bout of joblessness like some of my friends have gone through would wipe me out, and who knows how long it would take to recover.
-- Cathleen, New York
Well, good for all of you who have emergency funds! Believe it or not, those of us who don't aren't spendthrifts. We went through one year of unemployment, two moves, have two kids in college. We get by, but just barely. I'm trying desperately to get us out of debt before my husband retires. We live a very boring life because we don't have the surplus income to do anything that is remotely fun and interesting. And I know many, many people who are just like us. The best-laid plans. That works for other people. -- MSL, Pennsylvania
Call me paranoid but I won't be comfortable until I have a 12-month emergency fund!
-- Bob, New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1123 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: Savings Goal: Retirement

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
Eleven times your final working salary.
That's how much an average worker needs beyond Social Security, from sources like personal savings and employer benefits, to pay for retirement at age 65, a new analysis from the benefits consultant Aon Hewitt finds. The estimate takes into account inflation and postretirement medical costs. And it is based on the retiree's continuing the same standard of living. 
Delaying retirement to age 67 reduces the amount to 9.4 times pay, while retiring earlier, at age 62, increases it to 13.5 times pay, the report said.
The analysis, which examined the projected retirement levels of about 2.2 million employees at 78 large companies in the United States, found that most employees were not on track to meet the goal of 11 times pay.
Most ''full career'' employees are on track to save 8.8 times their final pay, leaving a shortfall of 2.2 times pay, the analysis found. That's a bit better than the shortfall of 2.4 times pay in 2010. Full-career employees are those who have a potential career of 30 years or more with their current employer before retirement, and who are saving in a defined-contribution retirement plan, like a 401(k). ANN CARRNS
COMMENTSSaving 8.8 times my salary wouldn't pay for a rowboat, least of all my retirement! I believe a simpler formula that says you need about $1.5 million in the bank or the equivalent income from pensions and Social Security to produce earnings of not less than $60,000 per person until about age 89 is easier. It's a high bar but it is possible to do this. Working hard and saving for the last 45 years helped a bit. Oh, and having health care is critical. I wish that we had some good old-fashioned certificates of deposit that are insured and could earn 6 to 8 percent and I'd feel much more secure.
-- Jay, Pennsylvania
Another expense that you may not have is your retirement savings. That was a big expense in our last 10 years of employment. I am not counting employer contributions.
-- James Benson, Princeton

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT AGE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (64%)

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (58%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1124 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Christie Signs Budget, But Also Vetoes Pieces

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey used his line-item veto power on Friday to prune the budget passed by the Democratic-controlled Legislature.
The budget Mr. Christie signed for the next fiscal year, which begins on Sunday, anticipates spending of $31.7 billion, less than the $32.1 billion budget that he proposed in February. Still, it reflects a 6.8 percent increase in spending over what was appropriated last year, among the largest of any state in the country, though the economic recovery in New Jersey has lagged. 
The governor, a Republican, criticized the Legislature for failing to enact the 10 percent cut in income tax that he proposed in his budget.
Mr. Christie's budget had presumed that revenue would increase 7.5 percent in the next fiscal year. But with tax receipts coming in lower than anticipated for several months, Democrats argued that the state might not be able to afford the cut. They said property taxes were a bigger burden than income taxes, and passed a property tax cut that they would have financed by increasing the marginal tax rate on the state's 16,000 millionaires.
The budget approved by the Legislature set aside $183 million to pay for the income tax cut, but specified that it would take effect in January only if revenue increased according to the governor's projections.
The governor did not veto that part of the legislation. But he did veto an initiative that he had proposed in February, to restore the earned-income tax credit for the working poor.
Mr. Christie also vetoed programs that would send some energy tax receipts to municipalities to help them relieve property taxes. He vetoed a measure that would give towns two additional years to spend money set aside for affordable housing; that money will go into the state's general fund instead.
Some of the vetoes effectively increased the governor's revenue projections, so the budget now anticipates an increase of more than 9 percent.
Mr. Christie issued a statement accusing the Legislature of wanting to spend irresponsibly. ''Simply wishing for more money to pay the bills is a reckless, childish, guaranteed path towards financial disaster,'' he said.
The governor criticized the Legislature for passing the tax on those earning more than $1 million, and for denying what he called ''tax relief to our hard-working, middle-class families.''
''I am unwilling to surrender the gains we have made to establish fiscal responsibility in the state budget by raising taxes on our people at a time when they need and deserve tax relief,'' he said.
His vetoes, he said, would establish ''funding levels based on realistic and responsible revenue assumptions.''
Senator Paul A. Sarlo, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, warned that if revenue did not meet targets, the Legislature would have to cut more later in the year. ''The governor's insistence on tax cuts now, before we know if we can truly afford them and six months before they would even take effect, is a platform built on national campaign rhetoric rather than fiscal reality,'' Mr. Sarlo said. ''Let's be perfectly clear: we all want to cut taxes. But first, we absolutely need to be fiscally responsible.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); VETO (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); TAX INCREASES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); FAMILY (70%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1125 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Markets Cheer Europe's Bailout Plan

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER and CHRISTINE HAUSER; Nathaniel Popper contributed reporting.

 BODY:
It was the relief rally that beleaguered investors were waiting for as a new plan to tackle the European banking crisis sent stock markets in many countries to their best day of the year on Friday.
But some analysts caution that the rally could be short-lived, and investors quickly braced themselves for the disappointment that has followed many previous efforts to fix the Continent's problems.
For a day at least, markets eagerly cheered the agreement announced by European leaders early Friday. A rally began in Asian markets and continued around the world, with the biggest gains being experienced by European stocks and bonds that have been hit the most by fears that the European common currency could collapse. 
The United States markets, which have been dragged down on worries about Europe, surged ahead as well. The benchmark Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.5 percent on Friday alone, to 1,362.16, for its best day of the year.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 2.2 percent, or about 277 points, to 12,880.09 and the Nasdaq composite index jumped 3 percent to 2,935.05.
The gains were enough to help the markets close out the first half of the year on a strong note. The Dow is now up 5.4 percent for the first six months of the year, while the S.& P. has gained 8.3 percent and the Nasdaq has risen 12.66 percent. In Europe, the news was enough to lift leading stock indexes in a few countries, including England and Sweden, into positive territory for the year. The FTSE 100 in London gained 1.42 percent on Friday while the CAC 40 in Paris soared 4.75 percent. The Euro Stoxx 50 index, which covers an array of blue-chip companies in the euro zone, was up 5 percent.
European leaders gathered in Brussels unexpectedly decided to allow European bailout funds to be used to directly prop up banks that were faltering under the weight of bad loans and assets. While many of the details still need to be worked out, the initial optimism that greeted the announcement sent the value of the euro soaring.
The stock rally also suppressed demand for some safe-haven assets like United States Treasuries. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 18/32 to 100 31/32, sending its yield up 1.64 percent, from 1.58 percent late Thursday.
Still, investors remain skeptical about the long-term effects of the deal in solving Europe's problems. Since 2010, there have been more than a dozen meetings of top politicians aimed at resolving the European crisis and none have managed to stop the Continent's debt problems from spreading. This time, there is hope that European leaders are showing a new willingness to address some of the fundamental issues they have avoided.
''The sense that these officials have a tin ear to the markets is receding as they directly address the big concerns,'' said Alec Young, global equity strategist with S.& P. Capital IQ. ''We hadn't seen that in the past.''
Traders have seen their optimism on Europe dashed before. Markets rallied at the beginning of the year, soon after the European Central Bank announced that it would give banks cheap loans so they could buy the debt issued by European nations. The bullish atmosphere was killed in the early spring when investors began to focus again on the growing resistance to budget cuts in Greece and the mounting real estate losses being experienced by the bank in Spain, one of Europe's largest economies. The last three months have been particularly rough on investors, and even with the latest gains, the S.& P. 500 is down 3.3 percent in the second quarter, which ended Friday.
European leaders tried to solve Spain's problem a few weeks ago by lending the government there 100 billion euros to support the country's banks. But that only increased the heavy debt load of the government and encouraged doubts that Spain would eventually be unable to pay the interest payments on its own bonds.
The agreement on Friday tries to address the concerns by allowing the European Stability Mechanism, a new bailout fund, to directly inject capital into Spain's banks. The plan also eases the conditions under which the European bailout funds can be used to buy government bonds, a move that could benefit Spain and Italy if their borrowing costs remain under pressure.
Angela Merkel, Germany's chancellor, has resisted past efforts to shift the debt burden of Europe's weaker nation's onto Germany and its neighbors. She came around this week after other leaders agreed to a plan that would move Europe's banks under stricter regulations.
Ms. Merkel had tamped down expectations before this week's summit meeting. And some strategists said that much of the rally on Friday was because of the dark mood that had overtaken the markets in recent days.
''Given how low expectations were, it's no surprise'' that the markets are up, said Charles Diebel, head of market strategy at Lloyds Banking in London. ''But it's too early to say Europe's saved.''
The measures agreed to this week could still face resistance from individual European countries. And it does not solve some of Europe's more fundamental problems, including the lack of any central oversight of the budgets and deficits of member nations, and the recession that has gripped several of Europe's weaker economies.
''They've moved the ball a little, but I think they'll have to come back in two or three months and do something again,'' said Jeff Saut, the chief strategist at the brokerage firm Raymond James.
In the United States, economists are waiting for companies to begin announcing their second quarter financial results to see how much the European slowdown has hit American companies. On Friday, new data showed that spending by American consumers fell in May, and consumer sentiment dropped in June to its lowest level of the year.
Michael Purves, the chief global strategist at Weeden & Company said that ''if Europe gets some resolution the U.S. fundamentals will be very much in the spotlight again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At the New York Stock Exchange. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 2.2 percent on news of a European bailout plan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BURTON/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) CHARTS: EUROPEAN STOCK MARKET
U.S. STOCK MARKET (Source: Bloomberg) (B1)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); EURO (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BONDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CURRENCIES (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); INDEX FUNDS (73%); EURO ZONE (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); ENGLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1126 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Iranian Says Nuclear Talks Have Reached 'Critical Point'

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Iran's ambassador to the United Nations said Friday that negotiations with the big powers over the disputed Iranian nuclear program had reached a ''critical point,'' implicitly raising the possibility of failure, because of the new regimen of harsh economic sanctions that have just been imposed on his country by the United States and European Union.
''This by itself indicates that they are not willing to engage with us in a meaningful dialogue,'' the ambassador, Mohammad Khazaee, told reporters at a news conference convened by Iran's United Nations mission to present its view of the nuclear negotiations, which have made scant progress after three rounds of high-level talks since April. 
A meeting of lower-level negotiators representing Iran and the so-called P5-plus-1 group of nations -- the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council plus Germany -- is set for Tuesday in Istanbul.
Mr. Khazaee rarely holds news conferences, and the timing suggested that Iranian officials were posturing to lay the groundwork for possible disappointment or worse at the meeting in Turkey.
While he expressed hope for progress, he said, ''at the same time it is clear to us that some members of the 5-plus-1, for whatever reasons, obviously and mainly political reasons, are not forthcoming and serious enough for finding a solution.''
''If the talks do not proceed as they should,'' he added, ''we are going to have another standoff in the talks. Therefore, we can say that we are at a critical point in our talks with some members of the 5-plus-1.''
He spoke a day after a new American law took effect that penalized countries that did business with Iran's central bank by denying their banks access to the United States market. Twenty nations that had significantly reduced their reliance on Iranian oil were exempted from the law, including China, Iran's biggest customer.
On Sunday, the European Union will invoke a potentially more damaging sanction on Iran, banning imports of Iranian oil and prohibiting Europe-based insurers from covering Iranian oil shipped anywhere. That measure has already caused havoc for Iran as well as many non-European customers because Europe dominates the maritime insurance business.
American and European diplomats have said Iran's willingness to even talk about its nuclear program is the result of pressure from the sanctions, which have already caused a plunge in Iran's exports of oil and contributed to a sharp rise in inflation there.
Mr. Khazaee restated Iran's longstanding contention that the sanctions had to be rescinded before negotiations could succeed. But he also said sanctions pressure, no matter how damaging, would do nothing to change the Iranian position in the dispute. ''We have learned how to cope with these problems,'' he said.
The P5-plus-1 group has said Iran must abide by Security Council resolutions that demand that it halt enrichment of uranium and answer questions about activities that United Nations nuclear inspectors have raised regarding possible military applications of the Iranian nuclear program.
Iran contends that the Security Council resolutions are invalid because Iran has signed the Treaty on the Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which entitles it to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes. Iran has also said that its supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has banned nuclear weapons as un-Islamic.
Mr. Khazaee reiterated those points and criticized what he called the West's double standard of suspecting the motives of Iran but not those of Israel, which has nuclear weapons and has not signed the nonproliferation treaty. Israel has never officially acknowledged its nuclear arsenal, but it is believed to have 75 to 200 nuclear weapons, according to the Arms Control Association, a Washington-based group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); INSURANCE (66%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); IMPORT CONTROLS (62%); INFLATION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); OCEAN MARINE INSURANCE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (79%) EUROPE (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); TURKEY (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1127 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Judge Expected to Rule Next Week on Releasing Zimmerman

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
MIAMI -- A month after he ordered George Zimmerman back to jail for misleading the court about his finances, a Florida judge heard arguments on Friday on whether Mr. Zimmerman, Trayvon Martin's killer, should be freed again.
But after nearly three hours of testimony, Judge Kenneth R. Lester Jr. of the Seminole County Circuit Court, near Orlando, left the bench without ruling. He is expected to do so in writing next week. 
Appearing in the courtroom in a gray suit and tie, Mr. Zimmerman, 28, listened as lawyers sparred over his trustworthiness and the penalty he should pay for having misled the court. Judge Lester revoked his bond on June 1 after new evidence revealed that Mr. Zimmerman had failed to tell the court at his initial bond hearing that he had a large sum of money in the bank.
A forensic accounting expert, Adam Magill, testified on Friday that on April 20, the day of the bond hearing, Mr. Zimmerman had a total of about $130,000 in his own checking account and in those of his wife and his sister. In the days before that, the money had been transferred in chunks out of a PayPal account connected to Mr. Zimmerman's legal defense Web site.
Relying on tapes of jailhouse conversation between Mr. Zimmerman and his wife, Shellie, prosecutors said that Ms. Zimmerman had lied about the existence of the money, which at one point totaled more than $200,000. They said she had helped Mr. Zimmerman conceal the cash and that they used coded words to discuss the plan.
Ms. Zimmerman told the court during the April 20 bond hearing that the family had no money, and a $150,000 bond was set. Two weeks ago, she was charged with perjury.
''The defendant spoke to his wife, and they used code,'' said Bernie de la Rionda, the prosecutor. They did so, he said, ''to make sure that whoever was listening didn't know what was going on. It was done to hide the money so they could mislead the court.''
Perhaps misleading was the wrong word, Mr. Magill said. ''I would say it was to look like he didn't have money,'' he added.
Mark O'Mara, Mr. Zimmerman's lawyer, acknowledged Friday that his client should have been honest with the court.
''He should have jumped up and said she is lying,'' Mr. O'Mara said of Ms. Zimmerman's testimony. ''He should have done something. And he didn't.''
But he then went on to portray his client as reliable and cooperative. After Mr. Martin's death, he did everything that was asked of him by the police and prosecutors, including provide 11 statements, Mr. O'Mara said. A probation officer testified Friday that Mr. Zimmerman was ''a model client.''
Rather than squander the $205,000 he received in donations, Mr. Zimmerman used a portion of it to pay bills and debts. Mr. Zimmerman has been unemployed since shortly after the shooting.
Mr. Magill testified that $24,000 was spent to pay credit card debts and two auto loans and to pay back the bulk of $4,500 Mr. Zimmerman borrowed from his mother. A portion of the money was spent on living expenses. The $130,000 that was transferred out of the PayPal account on April 20 was all accounted for, Mr. Magill said.
''A conspiracy to deceive has a purpose,'' Mr. O'Mara said. ''What was the purpose here? Get out on a lower bond and skedaddle, or get out of town, or keep the money for yourself?''
''The maneuvering of the PayPal money in and out was just maneuvering without any true negative intent,'' Mr. O'Mara added. ''This is not the grand conspiracy the state seems to suggest,'' he said.
Mr. O'Mara said after the hearing that the defense fund, which is in a trust, now has $211,000.
Mr. Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch leader, is charged with fatally shooting Mr. Martin, a black unarmed teenager, as Mr. Martin walked to a house in Sanford, Fla., where he was a guest. Mr. Zimmerman told the police he fired his weapon in self-defense after Mr. Martin punched him repeatedly and slammed his head into the pavement. He has pleaded not guilty. Prosecutors say the killing was not justified.
The Feb. 26 shooting generated outrage after Mr. Zimmerman was not initially arrested, raising questions about Florida's broad self-defense laws and racial profiling.
At Friday's hearing, Robert Zimmerman, Mr. Zimmerman's father, made his first appearance in court.
A former magistrate judge and Vietnam War veteran, he identified his son's voice on a 911 tape in which someone can be overheard screaming ''Help'' repeatedly in the background just before the pop of a gunshot.
''It was absolutely George's,'' Mr. Zimmerman said of the voice on the tape.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A judge in Florida will decide if George Zimmerman should be freed again after he misled the court about his finances in the Trayvon Martin case. (POOL PHOTO BY JOE BURBANK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); JUDGES (91%); TESTIMONY (90%); BAIL (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PROBATION (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); TRAYVON MARTIN SHOOTING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); FORENSICS (72%)

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (89%) FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1128 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Two Cities on the Verge of Devouring Themselves

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
LONDON -- Words don't come easily in the opening moments of ''Minsk, 2011: A Reply to Kathy Acker,'' the lacerating new work from the Belarus Free Theater. The latest offering from this astonishing troupe in exile, which recently closed at the Young Vic Theater, begins with individual performers walking up to a microphone. Each pauses, hesitates, starts to unfold a flag, play a flute or merely glance at a wristwatch. Then, before any of them utters a sound, they are dragged out of sight by a troop of stocking-capped men.
The scene provides a raw, potent metaphor for the lot of the Belarus Free Theater, which can perform in its own country only surreptitiously. (In place of the usual production credits, the program cast and crew biographies list incidents of arrest, imprisonment and blackballing.) Conceived as a response to ''New York in 1979,'' an erotic anatomy of the city by the novelist Kathy Acker, this production presents Minsk as a place where sex is a thwarted, warping force. Like the Nemiga River that runs beneath the city, erotic impulses have been forced underground. 
''To be sexual in Minsk does not mean to want to have sex,'' one young woman says. And the encounters presented here -- between a prostitute and a john; a group of topless dancers and a government official; anxious patrons in a secret gay club; an aspiring stripper and two men she meets on the Internet -- usually stop short of consummation. The sounds of orgasm are delivered by two disengaged performers who never touch; a young woman stands and vibrates mechanically and autonomously, limb by limb.
As usual with this company, whose brilliant ''Being Harold Pinter'' was staged in New York two years ago, much of what we see are visceral theatrical interpretations of real events, which include arrests, interrogations and the bombing of a subway station. There are first-person testimonials, and accounts of geographical and economic statistics and of distant and recent history.
Elementary props are put to highly sophisticated use. They include balloons, a red carpet, three sacks of sugar and long-handled brooms to clean away messy signs of life and death. There is a stunning coup de theatre in which a naked woman is covered in ink and pressed onto a roll of brown paper, which is then fashioned into a cocoon from which she vengefully emerges with a whip. In one sequence, women who have been charged with prostitution are set the surreal, fairy-tale-like task of sweeping up snow.
There are sad and lovely images of snow as a transforming, even revolutionary element, which turns a gray city into a virgin canvas. One man speaks rapturously of the most beautiful graffiti he ever saw in Minsk, the single word ''snow'' on a wall. Snow melts, of course, just as graffiti is soon painted over.
The final scene of the production, directed by Vladimir Shcherban, lets the performers describe their feelings about Minsk. To call them ambivalent is an understatement. Minsk is evoked both as a black hole that sucks out creative life and as the only place these people feel they belong.
After the curtain calls, as the artistic director Natalia Kaliada was beginning a speech, a rumpled, middle-aged man stood up in the aisle. ''I am Belarus,'' he said. ''These people are not Belarus.'' A few audience members booed, while several cast members applauded. Ms. Kaliada felt obliged to note that this was not a part of the play.
Except that it was, in a way -- a testimony to a now rare breed of provocative political theater, wherein art and reality are so uncomfortably close that it's sometimes hard to distinguish between them.
While ''Minsk'' summons a city suffocating beneath an oppressive state, Philip Ridley's savage and utterly gripping ''Mercury Fur'' imagines another European capital as a land of lawlessness. That's London in what -- if you're in the right (or wrong) mood -- feels like the all-too-foreseeable future.
''Mercury Fur,'' which ended its limited run at Trafalgar Studios recently, offers the most merciless vision of a self-devouring Britain since Sarah Kane's ''Blasted'' rattled audiences here in 1995. Directed with expertly harnessed ferocity by Ned Bennett, this Greenhouse Theater Company revival of Mr. Ridley's 2005 drama follows the preparations for a party in an abandoned, rubble-strewn London apartment.
Elliot (Ciaran Owens) and Darren (Frank C. Keogh), feral and violently affectionate brothers, are overseeing the arrangements. They are in charge of drinks, snacks, decor and, most important, the care, feeding and costuming of the Party Piece, in this case a boy dressed up for the, er, entertainment of a prosperous paying guest.
It's the sort of setup you associate with gratuitous splatter movies. But Mr. Ridley (''The Pitchfork Disney,'' ''Tender Napalm'') isn't just out for easy thrills. As is true in all effective futuristic fiction, this one creates an exactingly detailed dystopia, with an exotic yet disturbingly familiar language and customs of its own.
These would seem to have been assembled from the ashes of a city ravaged by uncontrolled rioting. (The London riots of last summer have given this revival an uncomfortable topicality.) And much of the play's dialogue is shaped by its characters' addled efforts to recall their own history, both personal and cultural.
Of the people who come and go in the flat -- including an inquisitive squatter next door (Sam Swann); a hulking makeshift entrepreneur (Ben Dilloway); and his blind, bejeweled girlfriend (Katie Scarfe) -- only Elliot and his lover, Lola (James Fynan), have much of a memory left.
Everyone else takes hallucinogens (in the form of different-colored butterflies) that erase and blur recollection, while scrambling traditional lines of family, gender and feeling. These people are understandably unwilling to live with clear pictures of what they have been through, even if it's only what they went through that morning.
Though the plot assumes an obtrusive capital P in the second act, the cast -- rounded out by Ronak Raj as the Party Piece and Henry Lewis as the Party Guest (from the City, wouldn't you know?) -- is terrifyingly in the moment throughout. So much so that I noted several audience members leaving the (admittedly claustrophobic) theater as ''Mercury Fur'' headed toward its grisly denouement.
I understood the impulse, since by that time I was looking at the stage through the splayed hand I'd clamped over my eyes. There had been moments I responded that way during ''Minsk, 2011.'' Yet in both cases, I felt strangely hopeful, as I had when I first saw ''Blasted.'' Here was evidence, after all, that original, socially engaged theater still has the power to shock.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Two challenging productions of political theater: left, Yana Rusakevich in ''Minsk 2011: A Reply to Kathy Acker,'' staged by the Belarus Free Theater at the Young Vic in London
above, James Fynan, left, and Ciaran Owens in Philip Ridley's ''Mercury Fur,'' at Trafalgar Studios. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NIKOLAI KHALEZIN
 EMIL CHARLAFF)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); WOMEN (87%); COUPS (77%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (73%); DANCERS (71%); WRITERS (68%); PROSTITUTION (65%); BOMBINGS (61%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) BELARUS (98%); UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Minsk, 2011: A Reply to Kathy Acker (Play); Mercury Fur (Play)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1129 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: Congress Approves a $127 Billion Transportation and Student Loan Package

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
Congress gave final approval on Friday to legislation that combines a two-year transportation measure with bills to extend subsidized student loans and revamp federal flood insurance, wrapping up a bruising session with measures that will be popular on the campaign trail.
The final $127 billion package angered fiscal conservatives and liberal environmentalists alike, but leaders in both parties -- along with many rank-and-file lawmakers -- wanted to put the issues behind them. 
Exhausted members of both parties pointed to the legislation as a tonic for the ailing job market, as well as proof that an unpopular Congress could get something done. The House passed it by 373 to 52, the Senate by 74 to 19. All the no votes were by Republicans.
''When all is said and done, this bill is what it is,'' said Representative Nick J. Rahall II, a West Virginia Democrat who was one of the senior negotiators. ''It means jobs.''
Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler, a freshman Republican from Washington State, called the measure ''a symbol of how Congress is supposed to operate and why we are here.''
The transportation legislation extends federal highway, rail and transit programs for 27 months, authorizing $120 billion in spending, financed by the existing 18.4 cents-a-gallon gasoline tax and the 24.4 cents-a-gallon diesel tax, as well as about $19 billion in transfers from the Treasury, according to Taxpayers for Common Sense, a watchdog group. That was a retreat for many House conservatives, who had vowed to scale back or eliminate those taxes and shift responsibility to the states.
The $6.7 billion student loan provision extends the current 3.4 percent interest rate on Stafford loans for one year, financed by changes in pension laws and a restriction on the length of time students could get those loans. The flood insurance program increases premiums and requires people living near levees to have coverage.
For Republicans, the huge measure violated a number of promises that the new leadership had made to the Tea Party-fueled electorate that brought it to power.
Bills were not to be bundled together at the last minute. They were supposed to be posted on the Internet 72 hours in advance, and they were generally to rein in -- not expand -- the scope of government.
During the 2010 campaign, Republicans taunted Democrats for enacting laws like the health care legislation that were too long to read. At 596 pages, posted on Thursday night, this one could not have been read by many.
''This is clearly not exactly what we wanted to do,'' said Tim Huelskamp, a conservative freshman from Kansas. ''People fear the government will just keep growing. This only serves to cement that.''
But Democrats had been pressing for months for action on the transportation and loan bills. Many students faced the prospect of their loan rates doubling to 6.8 percent on July 1, and transportation projects would have ground to a halt.
Business groups had pushed hard for a long-term extension of federal transportation programs, while President Obama had made the loan issue a centerpiece in his campaign against a ''do nothing'' Congress.
The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, told reporters aboard Air Force One that the measure was a ''good, bipartisan'' deal and that the president looked forward to signing it.
House Republican aides crowed that they had pulled that do-nothing campaign theme from under the president.
With only 29 days left on the House's legislative calendar before the election, the real work of the 112th Congress may be done, at least until a lame-duck session that will be devoted to heading off a fiscal disaster on Jan. 1. That leaves three significant bills passed by the Senate in limbo: a major overhaul of federal farm programs, a revamping of the Postal Service and an expansion of the Violence Against Women Act.
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said the farm measure was essential for continuing the economic growth under way in rural communities.
''This is a big deal and not one that is fully recognized,'' Mr. Vilsack said in an interview on Friday. ''They are turning their backs on rural America at the wrong time.''
Still, the blame that Mr. Obama had hoped to lay at Congress's feet for sluggish job growth will be undercut when he signs the huge bill. Senator Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat who was one of the chief authors of the transportation piece, said it would create one million jobs and save two million more.
Republicans boasted of streamlining environmental review processes for transportation programs and shifting resources away from highway beautification and pedestrian and bike paths.
Deron Lovaas, the federal transportation policy director at the Natural Resources Defense Council, called it a ''shameful'' throwback to highway bills of old that neglected more environmentally friendly forms of transportation.
The measure did nothing to answer the biggest problem facing the nation's transportation system. Most transportation repair and construction is paid for by fuel surcharges, but as cars and trucks grow more efficient and infrastructure ages, those tax revenues are not keeping up with demand.
Ryan Alexander, president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, called the legislation a ''massive Treasury bailout of the transportation program.''
But with a deadline looming and no one wanting another short-term punt, both parties compromised. Republican leaders once again dropped the Keystone XL oil pipeline provision, which would have mandated construction over the Obama administration's objections, as well as a provision passed by the House blocking new regulations of coal ash. Senate Democrats excised $1.4 billion set aside for land and water conservation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''When all is said and done, this bill is what it is,'' said Representative Nick J. Rahall II, a Democrat. ''It means jobs.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSE LUIS MAGANA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 ''This is clearly not exactly what we wanted to do,'' Representative Tim Huelskamp, a Republican, said of the bundled bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN HANNA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); FLOOD INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (79%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); FUEL TAX (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (66%); DIESEL FUEL (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (57%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: NICK J RAHALL II (74%); TIM HUELSKAMP (59%); JAIME HERRERA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1130 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: The Legal Debate Over the Health Law

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Justices, by 5-4, Uphold Health Care Law; Roberts in Majority; Victory for Obama'' (front page, June 29):
The world must be watching with amazement how slowly, in little increments, America is inching toward universal health care, which Bismarck introduced in Germany in the 1880s.
They must also be amazed reading that some justices even today, in the 21st century, consider medical care to be an optional commodity comparable to consumer goods like shoes or books that people buy depending on their taste and budget. 
PAUL SAMAN Asheville, N.C., June 29, 2012
To the Editor:
While the Supreme Court ruling in the health care case leaves the door open for new attacks on the federal government's presumed power under the Constitution's Commerce Clause, it is unlikely we will see a federal law with the breadth or as controversial as health care reform any time soon. Until then, the court's narrow escape from a troubling decision proves that the needs of the nation still trump politics, at least by a hair.
There is a legitimate question as to when government should step in to regulate the economy. But as we have seen several times in our history, capitalist fervor can have devastating consequences. While some prefer to live in a win-lose world, the more rational view is to find win-win solutions to our economic woes.
The court's holding has, at least, slowed the conservative march backward. At the same time, any further efforts in Congress to force us to eat broccoli should now take pause over the limits of federal power in the era of the Roberts court.
BRUCE NEUMAN Sag Harbor, N.Y., June 29, 2012
To the Editor:
As the author of a leading dictionary of tax definitions, I was astonished to see the word ''tax'' used to describe what is clearly a civil penalty. Taxes are there to raise revenues. As the renowned tax law professor and practitioner Martin D. Ginsburg (husband of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg) once remarked to me, ''Every time the Supreme Court touches the tax law, they crumb it up.'' So true.
Unfortunately, Congress has also done its part to scramble the meaning of the Internal Revenue Code.
RICHARD A. WESTIN Lexington, Ky., June 29, 2012
The writer is a professor at the University of Kentucky College of Law.
To the Editor:
The claim (or fear) that the Commerce Clause has been gutted by a Supreme Court majority's rejection of it as a valid basis for Congressional action on the Affordable Care Act neglects a basic rule of judicial precedents. As Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. says, the court should look for a way to uphold the action of democratically elected legislatures. He and four others found that basis in the taxing power.
Five of the justices stated that the Commerce Clause could not support the act. But this opinion was ''mere dictum.'' In other words, the statute survived on other grounds. There was no need to reach the Commerce Clause argument.
Judges, including the five who opined that the Commerce Clause was inadequate, are not bound by that conclusion. They were in effect judicially musing aloud. They can change their minds without violating precedent. They may be unlikely to do so, and their view is likely to prevail, but that does not make the undoing of the Commerce Clause a foregone conclusion.
NANCY BROCKWAY Boston, June 29, 2012
The writer is a lawyer.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HIERONYMUS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (93%); HEALTH CARE LAW (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); WRITERS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUDGETS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASHEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1131 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: 5 More States Get Waivers From Education Law Rules

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
The Obama administration granted waivers to five more states seeking relief from key conditions of the No Child Left Behind education law on Friday. In exchange, the states agreed to enact new standards and evaluate schools and teachers based on students' academic progress. 
State officials and critics of the 2001 federal law have long complained that it was unreasonable and unrealistic in requiring every student to demonstrate proficiency in math and English by 2014.
Arne Duncan, secretary of education, said the new standards were ''ambitious but achievable targets.''
The No Child Left Behind law has been up for renewal since 2007, but Congress has not authorized revisions. Friday's action by the administration brings to a total of 24 the number of states that have received waivers, and applications from an additional 13 states are under review.
The department's approval of requests from Arkansas, Missouri, South Dakota, Utah and Virginia on Friday came the week after the federal Education Department declined to approve an application from Iowa, on the grounds that the state had not demonstrated that it would adequately measure teacher performance.
Critics said they worried that the administration was substituting one set of test-based requirements for another.
''I'm concerned that the only waiver applications they are accepting are reinforcing the test-based culture that exist in too many schools,'' said Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers.
But in a conference call with reporters, Mr. Duncan said test scores would make up only one part of teacher and principal evaluations. He said states and districts would look at growth in scores, rather than absolute measures, as well as peer reviews, graduation rates and college attendance rates.
''It's a much more comprehensive, holistic and honest sense of what folks are doing,'' he said.
Kate Walsh, president of the nonprofit National Council on Teacher Quality, acknowledged that establishing a fair and effective system for evaluating teachers was not easy, but was necessary. Federal policy, she said, is not nuanced and often a ''blunt instrument.''
She added, ''I don't know how we're going to get from point A to point B without that chaos.''
Some observers were surprised that Virginia received a waiver because it is one of only a handful of states that have not adopted new national curriculum standards in English and math.
But Patricia I. Wright, superintendent of public instruction in Virginia, said the state submitted its own version of standards that met the Education Department's requirement for getting students ready for college and careers.
The administration's waivers emphasized serving students with disabilities, English language learners and students from economically disadvantaged families. Mr. Duncan said that under No Child Left Behind, many of these underperforming students were ''literally invisible'' because they were not always counted in state reports of academic progress.
Under the waivers, schools can lump together several low-performing groups in one category. Critics said they were worried that as a result, schools would fail to cater to the specific needs of students.
''While you solve one invisibility problem, you might be fostering another,'' said James Ferg-Cadima, regional counsel in the Washington office of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, which advocates for English-language learners.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tamira Raiford, left, and Jennifer Dauphinais, teachers at the Brennan-Rogers School in New Haven, participating last month in a discussion on education changes. Connecticut has already gotten relief from conditions of No Child Left Behind. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MELANIE STENGEL/THE NEW HAVEN REGISTER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (92%); EDUCATION LAW (92%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); FAMILY (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (56%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (54%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%) MISSOURI, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1132 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Tax or Penalty? Both Campaigns Are Quick to Define Court's Health Care Ruling

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court ruling on health care has put the topic of taxes front and center for the 2012 campaign, and both the Obama and Romney campaigns scrambled on Friday to define the issue to their advantage and the other's detriment.
President Obama's supporters insisted the law's penalty for people who do not buy health insurance is not a tax, but a penalty -- as Mr. Obama has long maintained. 
And while Republicans rushed to call it a tax -- and to charge that Mr. Obama had broken a 2008 pledge not to raise ''a single dime'' of taxes on the middle class -- their presidential candidate, Mitt Romney, focused on more general objections to the health care law.
Democrats suggested that Mr. Romney was constrained by the health care law he signed as governor of Massachusetts, which is structured similarly to Mr. Obama's health care overhaul and which Mr. Romney has in past years acknowledged relies on a tax penalty to enforce the requirement that everyone purchase insurance coverage.
The political upshot, strategists say, could be a wash. But much depends on how each side handles the message wars in the aftermath of a court ruling whose impact has already been felt in the presidential contest and still has far to go to play out. In its ruling on Thursday upholding the federal health care law, the court found that the financial penalty it imposes for not obtaining health insurance ''may reasonably be characterized as a tax.''
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that in 2016, two years after the mandate takes effect, about 4 million Americans out of about 21 million uninsured would pay the penalty; the rest would be exempted for hardship, religious beliefs and other reasons. The penalty -- $695 a person in 2016 or 2.5 percent of a household's income, whichever is greater -- would be half as much for children and indexed for inflation; a cap would apply for families.
Already both Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney have shown their sense of vulnerability to the tax question in this case.
Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats consistently declined to call the mandate's enforcement mechanism a tax through the long, messy legislative process that produced the law in 2010, and in their subsequent efforts to sell it to the public. At the Supreme Court, the administration argued for the law's constitutionality mainly based on Congress's power to regulate interstate commerce, an argument the court majority rejected, and only secondarily cited Congress's taxing power.
Their fear has been the unpopularity of taxes. But for Mr. Obama, the risk was more particular: as a candidate he had promised that no individual with an annual income under $200,000 and no couple earning less than $250,000 a year would pay additional taxes if he were president.
As for Mr. Romney, a day after the ruling he continued to emphasize broader concerns about the legislation rather than focusing, as many other Republicans and conservative groups did, on describing the mandate penalty as a tax.
At a fund-raiser on Friday, as in his initial response on Thursday, Mr. Romney highlighted the total amount of new taxes in the health care law, $500 billion in the first 10 years. That figure includes taxes on upper-income Americans and fees for health care providers, many of whom agreed to the levies given the additional customers and patients that the law would bring them.
For Mr. Romney to single out the mandate's penalty would not only invite Democrats to counter -- ''It was his idea in the first place,'' said the Democratic pollster Geoff Garin -- but also would draw closer attention to his health care law in Massachusetts, an achievement that Mr. Romney has virtually airbrushed from his resume given its unpopularity with his party's conservative base.
Even so, the Romney campaign on Friday circulated to the news media a news report about a conference call arranged by the Obama campaign in which two Democratic governors -- Deval Patrick of Massachusetts and Martin O'Malley of Maryland -- said the mandate penalty is just that, not a tax. A Romney spokeswoman, Kirsten Kukowski, added her own note: ''Hi all -- unfortunately for the Obama campaign, the Supreme Court decision they are celebrating calls it a tax on Americans.''
As governor in 2006 Mr. Romney called his own mandate and penalty an ''individual responsibility program.'' And in 2008, attacked by Republican rivals in a presidential debate, he replied, ''Here's my view: If somebody can afford insurance and decides not to buy it and then they get sick, they ought to pay their own way as opposed to expect government to pay their way. And that's an American principle. That's a principle of personal responsibility.''
Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, told reporters traveling with the president on Friday, ''You can call it what you want, but it is affecting 1 percent of the population'' once the mandate takes effect in 2014.
The law includes tax credits for small businesses and individuals to offset the cost of buying insurance. In 2019, once it is fully in place, the law would raise $88 billion in taxes and provide credits of $92 billion, according to nonpartisan Congressional analysts.
To help rebut Republican attacks, the White House senior adviser David Plouffe sent arguments to Congressional Democrats, and the deputy campaign manager, Stephanie Cutter, separately e-mailed similar talking points to grass-roots supporters. They said Mr. Obama has cut taxes for middle-class families by $3,600 on average over three years, while more than 18 million people will get tax credits to subsidize health insurance costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); CHILDREN (70%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1133 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: For Obama, a Signature Issue That the Public Never Embraced Looms Large

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On the day President Obama took the final step in turning the Affordable Care Act into law, his senior adviser, David Axelrod, predicted the public would eventually embrace his ambitious effort at health care reform.
''As the American people become familiar with what this program is and what it isn't,'' Mr. Axelrod said, ''they're going to be very, very happy with it.''
Two years later, the public is no happier with the law than it was then. Mr. Obama's signature initiative may have prevailed in the Supreme Court, but a White House that vowed a public relations blitz selling the act's virtues never fully followed through, much to the frustration of many Democrats and even some of the law's authors.
Now Mr. Obama faces the consequences as he heads toward a hotly contested election that will decide whether he has a second term and, by extension, whether the law will survive efforts to repeal it. 
And while the White House and its allies sent e-mails and held conference calls promoting the overhaul soon after the Supreme Court victory on Thursday, they privately made clear their interest in moving the national conversation back to the economy, the main electoral battleground.
''Unfortunately, we never had a really effective strategy around communicating to the public the benefits and the rationale behind health care reform,'' said Ezekiel J. Emanuel, a physician and University of Pennsylvania vice provost who was a top White House adviser involved in developing the program. ''We never had a spokesperson, and the public never really understood what we were doing.''
That failure still baffles supporters like Dr. Emanuel, given the significance of health care to Mr. Obama's legacy. Some see it as a result of the president's own instinctive diffidence or the natural desire to move to the next challenge. Others note the complexity of the act itself, or criticize the president's advisers for not being more assertive.
But there was also calculation on the part of White House officials who concluded that the public was fatigued with the subject and more concerned about jobs. As they pondered plans to sell the overhaul, they found few troops to rally. Democratic lawmakers ran away from it and party donors refused to finance advertising to promote it.
''No one in history has ever been able to communicate successfully about health care, because it is a deeply personal and polarizing issue and people are therefore afraid of the unknown,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. ''We need the law to be fully in effect before the known overtakes the unknown.''
Mr. Obama's team holds out hope that with the validation of the court ruling, the health care law will generate more popular support as it is phased in through 2014. And they take heart from polls showing that elements of the law, like protections for those with pre-existing conditions, rate high with the public.
Some supporters have argued that other social programs in the past were controversial at first before becoming embedded in American society. But polling suggests that is not so.
Social Security was popular from the start, supported by 73 percent of Americans in early 1937 and 78 percent the next year in Gallup polls. Medicare had the approval of 62 percent in early 1965 and 82 percent by the end of that year in Harris polls.
By contrast, just 32 percent supported the Affordable Care Act when it was approved in March 2010, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll. As of a month ago, 34 percent supported it, virtually unchanged. To be sure, about a fifth of those who oppose it say it did not go far enough, essentially frustrated liberals.
That Mr. Obama's presidency may be defined by the law would have seemed unlikely in March 2007, when as a presidential candidate he showed up for a health care forum in Las Vegas unprepared, by his own admission. When he finally developed a plan, he rejected requiring American adults to obtain health insurance and pilloried his chief opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton, for supporting it.
As he took office, health care was on his agenda but not yet dominant. The economy was in a free-fall; health care competed with issues like climate change and immigration for Mr. Obama's political capital. One adviser said if the White House had realized the economic troubles would be as sustained as they have been, health care might never have been on the table. Others disagree, arguing that health care did not detract from efforts to promote recovery.
Either way, health care rose to the fore in part through circumstance. The House passed a climate change bill, but it took deal-making and lobbying that alienated some around Mr. Obama. The White House concluded that the Senate could not pass the climate plan with only Democrats, since some from coal states opposed it. Likewise, Mr. Obama lost Republican cooperation on immigration, leaving health care the most plausible initiative.
''It wasn't a choice so much as, of the three issues, the only one that had a chance was health care,'' said a senior administration official who asked not to be named discussing priorities.
To pass health care, Mr. Obama abandoned his campaign position on the mandate. ''The president we had to convince, because it was going back on what he promised,'' Dr. Emanuel recalled. ''But once we effectively laid out for him why this would be a better argument, he was convinced this was the right move.''
Still, some urged the president to narrow his ambitions, including Rahm Emanuel, his chief of staff and Dr. Emanuel's brother. And victory came after an ugly process: closed-door deals with the pharmaceutical industry, policy inducements to recalcitrant lawmakers, legislative legerdemain after a Massachusetts special election cost Democrats their filibuster-proof supermajority.
To win over an unenthusiastic public, officials promised an aggressive campaign. In April 2010, a month after the law was signed, the White House hired Stephanie Cutter, a prominent Democratic strategist, to handle public outreach for it. But she was given other projects as well, and by August had been reassigned as Mr. Axelrod's deputy. The White House and its allies made efforts to educate the public, hosting events and posting information online, but it was sporadic.
Critics say public discontent stems not from how the president sells the overhaul, but what he is selling.
''Democrats can point to a couple of aspects that light up some numbers for them, but when weighed against the negatives they get blown away,'' said Jonathan Collegio, communications director for American Crossroads, a group that supports Mitt Romney for president.
Groups like Crossroads swamped the president's allies with television advertising. Since the law's passage, $235 million has been spent on ads attacking it, compared with $69 million for those supporting it, according to Kantar Media's Campaign Media Analysis Group.
''I'd be a heck of a lot happier if I had $100 million too,'' said Eddie Vale, communications director for Protect Your Care, which supports the law. ''But we're playing with the hand we've been dealt.''
As for the president, he has promoted his program in fits and starts. In his State of the Union address this year, he devoted two sentences to it -- 44 words out of more than 7,000. Aides said they decided to focus on jobs.
''That is the A-No. 1 issue on people's minds,'' Mr. Pfeiffer said. ''You can't do both. You have to make choices.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Just 32 percent supported the Affordable Care Act when it was approved in March 2010. The number has not changed much. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); DAVID AXELROD (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1134 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Italy's Prime Minister Nudges German Chancellor Toward Growth

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO and NICHOLAS KULISH; Rachel Donadio reported from Rome, and Nicholas Kulish from Berlin. James Kanter contributed reporting from Brussels.

 BODY:
ROME -- At the summit meeting of European Union leaders in Brussels early Friday morning, Germany's leader, Angela Merkel, found herself facing a tenacious opponent, one who in the course of an exhausting night of bargaining finally forced the Iron Chancellor to blink. Even more surprising than that was the identity of her antagonist: Mario Monti, the soft-spoken technocratic prime minister of Italy whom Ms. Merkel had helped to install in office.
President Francois Hollande of France, Germany's traditional diplomatic partner, came to power in May promising to redirect Europe's priorities from Ms. Merkel's campaign of austerity to growth. But it is Mr. Monti who has emerged as the uncontested leader of the ''pro-growth'' forces, and who persuaded Ms. Merkel to take perhaps one of the largest steps toward European integration since the euro crisis began.
The Italian leader came to Brussels with a simple plan based on the knowledge that Europe's leaders could ill afford to come away from the summit meeting empty-handed. Italy and Spain, as he eventually made clear to Ms. Merkel, would block all agreements -- including a growth pact that they fully supported -- until European leaders agreed to allow Europe's new bailout funds to directly recapitalize ailing banks, rather than going through the governments. 
''It became increasingly clear that the turbulent situation within the euro zone was not only disturbing in itself but was seen by public opinion and seen by the markets as perhaps the main hindrance to growth,'' Mr. Monti said in a telephone interview on Friday. ''I thought it was a bit unrealistic to launch a big package on growth, which we wholeheartedly supported, while not sending out to the markets a clear signal of financial stabilization.''
A canny tactician, Mr. Monti also enjoys strong support from President Obama, who has expressed concerns that the euro crisis would lead to a recession in Europe that could drag the United States down with it. Mr. Monti did not turn on Ms. Merkel, who respects the economist-turned-politician. Indeed, they stayed in close contact throughout the night of grueling negotiations.
As Ms. Merkel's most trusted -- perhaps only -- ally in southern Europe, his pushback is measured, respectful and built on a strong shared belief with her that the 17 nations that use the euro should eventually relinquish some sovereignty to Brussels in exchange for greater protections for the euro.
But with Italy's borrowing rates back above 6 percent -- near the levels that helped to force the previous prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, from power -- Mr. Monti was under intense political pressure at home as the talks approached.
Using the country's greatest weakness -- in this case, its huge debt and the threat it poses to the integrity of the euro zone -- as its strength is a classic move of Italian diplomacy. Not only did it work, but Mr. Monti also helped put Italy back on the diplomatic map.
''He has strengthened not only his own position but Italy's place in the European concert,'' said Wichard Woyke, professor of European politics at the University of Munster. ''At a time when the German-French axis is no longer functioning as it was, at a time when Ms. Merkel has lost support for her policy of uncompromising saving, the moment was opportune for Italy to return to its position and he took advantage.''
While emphasizing the collaborative process, Mr. Monti hailed the summit meeting as a success. ''The construction of Europe is done of many successive achievements like this one,'' he said.
Mr. Monti and Mr. Obama have spoken multiple times in recent weeks. ''Since my first meeting with the White House in February, his very deep and growing interest in European and euro zone matters in a sense made the two of us rather regular interlocutors,'' Mr. Monti said.
The president and Mr. Monti have mutual aims. ''His pursuit of a growth agenda as an integral part of euro zone reforms, together with fiscal rigor, is fully appreciated in Washington,'' the United States ambassador to Italy, David Thorne, said of Mr. Monti. ''Ultimately, a strong and economically vibrant Europe is good for the United States as well.''
Mr. Monti said he wanted to convey ''this sense of deeply cooperative dialogue with Germany, with Merkel, and not to encourage this football-like attitude.'' On Friday, the Italian news media were filled with images comparing Mr. Monti to Mario Balotelli, the soccer player who scored two goals for a 2-1 victory over Germany in the semifinals of the European championship on Thursday.
It is not surprising that Ms. Merkel should have developed a rapport with Mr. Monti. As a scientist, she respects his expertise, analysts said. During the summit meeting, ''I definitely must have stepped off to the side with Mario Monti around 10 times,'' Ms. Merkel said Friday. ''We were constantly talking about specific formulations, and then also a little bit about football.''
Ms. Merkel's own economic adviser, Lars-Hendrik Roller, was once Mr. Monti's chief economist when he was Europe's competition commissioner, a post where he forged a reputation for steely determination. In 2001, Mr. Monti sank the ambitions of Jack Welch, then the chief executive of General Electric, by blocking a merger between G. E. and Honeywell International. Later, he slapped Microsoft with a $625 million antitrust fine.
Analysts said that if Ms. Merkel was going to give ground to anyone in Europe, Mr. Monti was the most likely person. ''When Monti asserts himself, Merkel loses less face,'' said Gunther Pallaver, a political scientist at the University of Innsbruck, ''because as an economist his words have great weight.''
Still, the results of the summit meeting have not been well received in Germany.
''He's a big danger for her,'' said Bert Van Roosebeke, of the Center for European Policy in Freiburg, Germany. ''He's respected in Germany, this professorial type of guy, and then this respected guy is openly criticizing Ms. Merkel's policies in the euro crisis.''
While Mr. Monti has grown stronger on the European stage, at home he has a tougher job. He is an agent of change beholden to a Parliament -- and an entrenched culture of political patronage -- heavily invested in the status quo.
But analysts said Mr. Monti's success in Brussels was bound to help him. ''With this result behind him, it's out of the question that the government will end before its mandate ends in April,'' said Tito Boeri, an economics professor at Milan's Bocconi University, referring to Italy's next national elections, which are to be held in the spring. ''He has helped Europe. Now let's hope he has more time to contribute to Italy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mario Monti, right, emerged at the European Union talks as leader of the ''pro-growth'' forces. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOCK FISTICK/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EURO CRISIS (89%); EURO ZONE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EURO (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); BANK FAILURES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (91%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) EUROPE (98%); ITALY (95%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (90%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1135 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Strauss-Kahn and Wife Separate, Tabloid Reports

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO and MAIA de la BAUME; Elvire Camus contributed reporting.

 BODY:
PARIS -- She has been more than the faithful wife. She has been the fiercest of defenders.
No matter what the sin or scandal, Anne Sinclair bankrolled, excused, protected and even praised her husband, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, with passion and eloquence.
She was called a modern-day Joan of Arc, and she was called a fool. When feminists blasted her for standing by her man, she fired back, telling French Elle, ''Well then, leave your husband if you want. That's your problem.'' 
Now, just months into a new career as the editor of the French edition of The Huffington Post, and after 21 years of marriage, Ms. Sinclair may have decided to move on.
And Mr. Strauss-Kahn, who headed the powerful International Monetary Fund and perhaps could have been France's president, will fall deeper into ignominy.
On Thursday evening, the French tabloid Closer reported online that the couple had separated. Mr. Strauss-Kahn had moved out of their luxury apartment on the Place des Vosges, the magazine wrote.
''Ms. Sinclair asked Mr. Strauss-Kahn to leave the apartment a month ago,'' Laurence Pieau, Closer's executive editor, said in a telephone interview on Friday.
She added that Mr. Strauss-Kahn had first moved into the elegant Hotel Lutetia in the Sixth Arrondissement and then to a friend's apartment across the river in the residential 16th Arrondissement.
''For me, it is a definitive breakup,'' Ms. Pieau said, declining to reveal her sources.
Ms. Sinclair and Mr. Strauss-Kahn, both 63, wasted no time in reacting. But instead of confirming or denying their breakup, on Friday afternoon they announced that they were suing the magazine.
''Having taken note of the cover and content of celebrity magazine Closer, Dominique Strauss-Kahn and Anne Sinclair have decided to sue this publication for invasion of privacy,'' their lawyers said in a brief statement that made no mention of the couple's marital status.
The decision to take legal action makes it likely that their soap opera will continue to be aired in public.
''The saga is not over,'' said Jean Quatremer, author of the recent book ''Sex, Lies and the Media.'' ''Dominique Strauss-Kahn will continue to fascinate people. He is a Faustian character. In France, it is rare that politicians who fall into disgrace stay in the public eye. But with Strauss-Kahn, we could read and read about him again. He is our dark side.''
The signs of marital strain have been there for some time.
At first, Ms. Sinclair, a former television anchor and the heiress to an art fortune, was in lock step with Mr. Strauss-Kahn after he was charged with sexually assaulting a housekeeper in a New York hotel last May and forced to abandon his quest for the French presidency. The criminal charges were later dismissed.
Nafissatou Diallo, the housekeeper, has filed a civil suit against Mr. Strauss-Kahn in New York seeking unspecified damages; he has filed a countersuit for malicious prosecution and defamation.
In January, four months after their return to Paris, Ms. Sinclair stepped into a new professional life working for her friend Arianna Huffington, with an office and staff in the headquarters of Le Monde.
At a news conference opening the Web site, her makeup was impeccable, her voice low and confident, her gaze focused on certain photographers. She was no longer wearing her wedding ring. There was no mention of Mr. Strauss-Kahn.
''This is a chance for me,'' Ms. Sinclair said. ''The Huffington Post gave me a chance.''
In the interview later with Elle, she said, ''I am neither a saint nor a victim. I am a free woman.''
Meanwhile, Mr. Strauss-Kahn was unemployed, spending much of his time at home. Then, in March, he was charged with involvement in a prostitution ring centered in the northern French city of Lille. The police are also investigating allegations that he sexually assaulted a Belgian prostitute at a hotel in Washington in 2010.
He was suddenly a pariah, shunned by friends and political colleagues. A former Socialist prime minister, Michel Rocard, called him sick. Mr. Strauss-Kahn, Mr. Rocard said, ''obviously has a mental illness, trouble controlling his impulses.''
French tabloids had for months speculated about strains on the couple and a possible split. He and Ms. Sinclair were last seen in public in April, when they attended a party in Paris. She appeared alone this month at a film premiere in Paris.
A new book, ''Les Strauss-Kahn,'' by a pair of veteran Le Monde journalists, Raphaelle Bacque and Ariane Chemin, investigates their life as a couple and has been a runaway best seller.
Theirs is a story ''about a political couple and an uncommon couple, a couple that has been solid, a couple who became political pariahs, a couple no one wanted to be associated with,'' Ms. Chemin said in a telephone interview. ''For many people, their life as a couple is a mystery.''
The clearest signal of a potential split was provided in not very subtle code when Ms. Sinclair appeared solo on the cover of Paris-Match two weeks ago.
Inside, Mr. Strauss-Kahn was photographed looking depressed. The magazine quoted an unidentified friend describing him as ''destroyed, depressed,'' and spending most of his time ''playing chess on his iPad.''
However, Paris-Match did not predict the breakup. ''Ruin twenty years of love, shared ambition and complicity, no,'' it wrote. ''Make the family cocoon explode, even less. What would she get out of it? The revenge of a disgraced woman? She would punish herself even more. And as DSK often put it, 'Sex and love don't always go together.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dominique Strauss-Kahn and his wife, Anne Sinclair, at a New York court last July 1, when he was freed from house arrest in a sexual assault case. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCANDALS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); WRITERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (68%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (64%); LAWYERS (64%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (60%); SEX OFFENSES (60%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (94%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (84%) FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (84%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1136 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: Germany Yields In Steps on Euro

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and PAUL GEITNER; James Kanter contributed reporting from Brussels, and Melissa Eddy from Berlin.

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- European leaders went a surprising distance on Friday toward restoring confidence in the euro, taking a significant step toward economic integration and easing market pressure on Spain and Italy, as what appeared to be a new coalition of forces pushed Germany to bend.
But questions quickly arose about how far they still had to go, leaving unresolved the most fundamental problems of the euro zone, its structural imbalances and lack of a lender of last resort. While Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany ceded some ground by agreeing to direct refinancing of banks, she did not yield on the issue of sharing debt burdens, which is highly unpopular with German voters but is seen by many economists as a necessary step in saving the currency.
''In a nutshell, we think that the Europeans have cracked open more doors than we thought, but they still have a lot on their plate,'' said Gilles Moec, an economist at Deutsche Bank in London. ''The discussion on fiscal integration and debt mutualization has not started in earnest.'' 
At the latest all-night meeting since the beginning of the long euro crisis, the leaders made a breakthrough toward more central control over their banking system, a crucial aspect to the stability of the common currency. They also moved swiftly to grant their bailout funds more flexibility to come to the rescue of Spain and potentially Italy, the fourth- and third-largest economies in the euro zone, respectively, because they are too big to fail.
But the meeting also signaled an important shift in the foundation of the euro zone, with France, under the new Socialist president, Francois Hollande, breaking from the familiar lock step with Germany. Working more in partnership with Prime Minister Mario Monti of Italy than with Ms. Merkel, Mr. Hollande helped to isolate Germany and broker the deal for Italy and Spain, which breaks a previous German taboo on direct recapitalization of ailing banks, and makes a beginning, however small, toward pooling liabilities.
Financial markets rallied Friday, suggesting that the measures had exceeded admittedly low expectations. The president of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, who has not shied from criticizing political inaction, called himself ''quite pleased with the outcome.'' He added, ''It showed the long-term commitment to the euro by all member states of the euro area.''
In return for allowing the direct recapitalization of banks by the bailout funds, Germany won agreement on a single banking supervisory agency, with the European Central Bank playing a major role, a shift bringing it closer to the powers of the United States Federal Reserve.
Agreement on the bank authority was ''the major breakthrough'' of the night and a crucial step in breaking ''the vicious circle between banks and sovereigns,'' said the European Council president, Herman Van Rompuy. While the long euro crisis has been centered on excessive government debt, European banks have been weakened by their portfolios of government bonds, made worse in Spain and Ireland by a property bubble that burst.
Spain has asked for a bailout of up to $125 billion for its banks, but objected to that new debt being added to its national debt, rather than directed to the banks themselves. Investors pushed Spanish and, in a ripple effect, Italian debt toward unsustainable levels. Italy's total debt is about 120 percent of gross domestic product, second only to Greece in the euro zone.
The new deal will let the bailout funds lend directly to Spanish banks -- although not until the new central bank supervisor is established -- probably by the end of the year. Spain also would not get a lot of onerous new conditions because it, like Italy, is making serious strides to streamline its government and economy and cut its deficit. Also important to investors, in the case of Spain, the bailout fund will not be the first in line for repayment, in the event of default.
''We have taken decisions unthinkable just some months ago,'' said Jose Manuel Barroso, the European Commission president.
Mr. Monti, who emerged a winner from the summit meeting, said that Italy had no immediate plans to seek help from the bailout funds, but might in the future. He and the Spanish prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, held up agreement at the meeting until the early hours of Friday, when they got a deal on the use of the bailout funds. Some of the leaders resented what they felt was blackmail, but others saw it as a hard-nosed negotiating tactic by Mr. Monti.
Prime Minister Enda Kenny of Ireland described the agreement as ''a seismic shift in European policy,'' after having won a promise that Ireland's bailout for its collapsed banking sector could be adjusted as well.
In a research note, the international bank BNP Paribas wrote that while the agreement on using bailout funds to purchase debt was a positive development, it also noted that ''the details are rather lacking'' and warned that this fact ''could temper the initial market enthusiasm.'' The uncertainty was underscored on Friday when Mr. Hollande said that future bank bailouts could be authorized without the unanimous consent of the euro zone members, making such rescues far easier. But that interpretation was immediately disputed by European Union officials, who could find no such stipulation in the fine print.
Mr. Hollande, while speaking Friday of ''no winners and no losers,'' clearly supported Italy and Spain, no doubt concerned that France, with its total debt now approaching 90 percent of gross domestic product, might be next in line if the markets tired of speculating on Spain and Italy.
Some said that it was bad enough that Germany lost its semifinal soccer match to Italy on Thursday night in the European championship, suggesting that Ms. Merkel had also lost to Mr. Monti here.
Although the chancellor stuck by her argument that none of the basic principles demanded by Germany had been violated, the German news media were quick to call the deal a retreat from her previously tough position.
''Merkel caves in,'' wrote the influential Bild newspaper. The online edition of the newsmagazine Der Spiegel titled its lead story on the talks ''The Night That Merkel Lost.''
Ms. Merkel said that the new financing pact worked with existing mechanisms and that Germany had agreed only to more flexible use of the bailout funds in return for centralized supervision under the central bank.
''We have remained completely true to our existing model -- performance, reward, conditionality and control,'' she said Friday. ''And so I believe we've done something important and remained true to our philosophy: no reward without performance.''
Yet she received criticism from some in her own party and from members of the opposition Social Democrats, who argued that allowing banks to tap directly into the bailout funds brought Germany closer to a common sharing of debt.
''It is not so easy for Ms. Merkel,'' said Tanja Borzel, a political scientist from the Free University in Berlin. ''She can't simply charge ahead, but has to consider her domestic audience and the democratic and legal procedures we have in Germany.''
Still, her skill at diverting this meeting from discussing more sweeping issues like euro bonds should not be underestimated, said Holger Schmieding, a London-based economist at the Berenberg Bank of Germany.
''Merkel agreed to let common sense prevail by not asking Italy and Spain to potentially kill their economies through an overdose of austerity,'' he said, while sticking to her guns on strict conditions for aid. ''That Monti, Rajoy and Hollande are now happily selling this as a victory says a lot about the diplomatic skills of Ms. Merkel.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); EURO (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (64%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (76%); ANGELA MERKEL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (89%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) EUROPE (98%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (94%); BELGIUM (89%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



1137 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: The 'Busy' Trap

BYLINE: TIM KREIDER


HIGHLIGHT: The "crazy busy" existence so many of us complain about is almost entirely self-imposed. 

 BODY:
If you live in America in the 21st century you've probably had to listen to a lot of people tell you how busy they are. It's become the default response when you ask anyone how they're doing: "Busy!" " busy." " busy." It is, pretty obviously, a boast disguised as a complaint. And the stock response is a kind of congratulation: "That's a good problem to have," or "Better than the opposite."
Notice it isn't generally people pulling back-to-back shifts in the I.C.U. or commuting by bus to three minimum-wage jobs who tell you how busy they are; what those people are is not busy but . It's almost always people whose lamented busyness is purely self-imposed: work and obligations they've taken on voluntarily, classes and activities they've "encouraged" their kids to participate in. They're busy because of their own ambition or drive or anxiety, because they're addicted to busyness and dread what they might have to face in its absence.

Almost everyone I know is busy. They feel anxious and guilty when they aren't either working or doing something to promote their work. They schedule in time with friends the way students with 4.0 G.P.A.'s make sure to sign up for community service because it looks good on their college applications. I recently wrote a friend to ask if he wanted to do something this week, and he answered that he didn't have a lot of time but if something was going on to let him know and maybe he could ditch work for a few hours. I wanted to clarify that my question had not been a preliminary heads-up to some future invitation; this the invitation. But his busyness was like some vast churning noise through which he was shouting out at me, and I gave up trying to shout back over it.
Even are busy now, scheduled down to the half-hour with classes and extracurricular activities. They come home at the end of the day as tired as grown-ups. I was a member of the latchkey generation and had three hours of totally unstructured, largely unsupervised time every afternoon, time I used to do everything from surfing the World Book Encyclopedia to making animated films to getting together with friends in the woods to chuck dirt clods directly into one another's eyes, all of which provided me with important skills and insights that remain valuable to this day. Those free hours became the model for how I wanted to live the rest of my life.
The present hysteria is not a necessary or inevitable condition of life; it's something we've chosen, if only by our acquiescence to it. Not long ago I Skyped with a friend who was driven out of the city by high rent and now has an artist's residency in a small town in the south of France. She described herself as happy and relaxed for the first time in years. She still gets her work done, but it doesn't consume her entire day and brain. She says it feels like college - she has a big circle of friends who all go out to the cafe together every night. She has a boyfriend again. (She once ruefully summarized dating in New York: "Everyone's too busy and everyone thinks they can do better.") What she had mistakenly assumed was her personality - driven, cranky, anxious and sad - turned out to be a deformative effect of her environment. It's not as if any of us wants to live like this, any more than any one person wants to be part of a traffic jam or stadium trampling or the hierarchy of cruelty in high school - it's something we collectively force one another to do.
Busyness serves as a kind of existential reassurance, a hedge against emptiness; obviously your life cannot possibly be silly or trivial or meaningless if you are so busy, completely booked, in demand every hour of the day. I once knew a woman who interned at a magazine where she wasn't allowed to take lunch hours out, lest she be urgently needed for some reason. This was an entertainment magazine whose raison d'tre was obviated when "menu" buttons appeared on remotes, so it's hard to see this pretense of indispensability as anything other than a form of institutional self-delusion. More and more people in this country no longer make or do anything tangible; if your job wasn't performed by a cat or a boa constrictor in a Richard Scarry book I'm not sure I believe it's necessary. I can't help but wonder whether all this histrionic exhaustion isn't a way of covering up the fact that most of what we do doesn't matter.
I am not busy. I am the laziest ambitious person I know. Like most writers, I feel like a reprobate who does not deserve to live on any day that I do not write, but I also feel that four or five hours is enough to earn my stay on the planet for one more day. On the best ordinary days of my life, I write in the morning, go for a long bike ride and run errands in the afternoon, and in the evening I see friends, read or watch a movie. This, it seems to me, is a sane and pleasant pace for a day. And if you call me up and ask whether I won't maybe blow off work and check out the new American Wing at the Met or ogle girls in Central Park or just drink chilled pink minty cocktails all day long, I will say, what time?
But just in the last few months, I've insidiously started, because of professional obligations, to become busy. For the first time I was able to tell people, with a straight face, that I was "too busy" to do this or that thing they wanted me to do. I could see why people enjoy this complaint; it makes you feel important, sought-after and put-upon. Except that I hate actually being busy. Every morning my in-box was full of e-mails asking me to do things I did not want to do or presenting me with problems that I now had to solve. It got more and more intolerable until finally I fled town to the Undisclosed Location from which I'm writing this.
Here I am largely unmolested by obligations. There is no TV. To check e-mail I have to drive to the library. I go a week at a time without seeing anyone I know. I've remembered about buttercups, stink bugs and the stars. I read. And I'm finally getting some real writing done for the first time in months. It's hard to find anything to say about life without immersing yourself in the world, but it's also just about impossible to figure out what it might be, or how best to say it, without getting the hell out of it again.
Idleness is not just a vacation, an indulgence or a vice; it is as indispensable to the brain as vitamin D is to the body, and deprived of it we suffer a mental affliction as disfiguring as rickets. The space and quiet that idleness provides is a necessary condition for standing back from life and seeing it whole, for making unexpected connections and waiting for the wild summer lightning strikes of inspiration - it is, paradoxically, necessary to getting any work done. "Idle dreaming is often of the essence of what we do," wrote Thomas Pynchon in his essay on sloth. Archimedes' "Eureka" in the bath, Newton's apple, Jekyll & Hyde and the benzene ring: history is full of stories of inspirations that come in idle moments and dreams. It almost makes you wonder whether loafers, goldbricks and no-accounts aren't responsible for more of the world's great ideas, inventions and masterpieces than the hardworking.
"The goal of the future is full unemployment, so we can play. That's why we have to destroy the present politico-economic system." This may sound like the pronouncement of some bong-smoking anarchist, but it was actually Arthur C. Clarke, who found time between scuba diving and pinball games to write "Childhood's End" and think up communications satellites. My old colleague Ted Rall recently wrote a column proposing that we divorce income from work and give each citizen a guaranteed paycheck, which sounds like the kind of lunatic notion that'll be considered a basic human right in about a century, like abolition, universal suffrage and eight-hour workdays. The Puritans turned work into a virtue, evidently forgetting that God invented it as a punishment.
Perhaps the world would soon slide to ruin if everyone behaved as I do. But I would suggest that an ideal human life lies somewhere between my own defiant indolence and the rest of the world's endless frenetic hustle. My role is just to be a bad influence, the kid standing outside the classroom window making faces at you at your desk, urging you to just this once make some excuse and get out of there, come outside and play. My own resolute idleness has mostly been a luxury rather than a virtue, but I did make a conscious decision, a long time ago, to choose time over money, since I've always understood that the best investment of my limited time on earth was to spend it with people I love. I suppose it's possible I'll lie on my deathbed regretting that I didn't work harder and say everything I had to say, but I think what I'll really wish is that I could have one more beer with Chris, another long talk with Megan, one last good hard laugh with Boyd. Life is too short to be busy.
()

        
Haunted Heart
        
Toasted
        
Survivors
        
Cancer on the Brain
        
Do the Jews Own Anxiety?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); ANIMATED FILMS (50%) Anxiety; Friendship; modern life; Time; Anxiety and Stress

COMPANY: WORLD BOOK INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511199 ALL OTHER PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2012

 
